for the greens/efa group mr president, you are aware that events in tunisia have been precipitated and we can also welcome the fact that mr ben ali has left the country. the situation in tunisia will therefore be very tense in the coming weeks. i think that this parliament should, in a short resolution, ask very specific things of the council and the commission. you know there may be an election in six to eight weeks, so we don't have time to wait until february. the european union must act, we must act now, and the basis of our action must be a resolution which we should vote on thursday at noon. i understand that, given the situation, it is with great enthusiasm that this house will finally be able to vote on a resolution on tunisia.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i would have liked this parliament to have lived up to the pride of the tunisians who were able to bring down the dictator ben ali. the dictator has fallen, but the dictatorship, the structure of the dictatorship, still exists in tunisia. and today, we have to be very careful. the majority of the european governments and the majority of this parliament have for years supported the structure of the dictatorship and the tunisian dictator. as recently as last week, the majority of groups refused to debate tunisia and refused to condemn ben ali. what the french foreign minister did is just the latest example of western complicity. why would you do that ? because of fear, because we were afraid of islamism. we are right to be afraid of the dictatorship of islamism, but what do these young people, these tunisians who had nothing to do with islamism, who were fighting for freedom, have to do with this? and mr bouazizi who sacrificed himself was the jan palach of tunisia and when jan palach sacrificed himself, this whole parliament was behind him. we are not even capable of supporting mr bouazizi, that is the truth of this parliament. now it is up to the commission to act. it is simply a matter of saying one thing, of telling the tunisians that a democratic election in a country that has just emerged from dictatorship cannot be held in two months. there is no basis for democracy. freedom of speech, media, radio, television does not exist. there's only one state-run printing plant. that is why i am asking the commission to take the money from the association agreement and put it to the benefit of freedom of expression in tunisia and not to the benefit of tunisian governmental organizations. secondly, the transitional government is not a government of national unity. why would you do that? because the majority of those who fought or those who are in exile have not yet returned, are not recognized, so it will take time for democratic forces - not forces that had been "recognized" by ben ali - but truly democratic forces, to develop. the european union must demonstrate that for us what is happening in tunisia is the key to understanding and hope for all the arab countries. democracy and islam go hand in hand, and if we are able to support the nascent tunisian democracy, we will see that in egypt, in jordan, in syria, and everywhere, the people and the people will rise up against their dictators. we all have a responsibility here, because at last the tunisians, part of the arab world, show us that the hope for freedom that we saw in 1989 in the eastern countries, the same hope is being born today in a country like tunisia, tomorrow in algeria, the day after tomorrow in egypt and jordan. so that is why it is unthinkable that this parliament should sit back and say: 'oh yes, perhaps, we do not know.' in '89 we didn't know what poland was going to be. we didn't know what was going to happen to russia. if every time the people ask for freedom, we ask for assurances, that they tell us that it is certain that it will go in one direction, we will never support freedom and that is why i ask the commission: "move, give, show the tunisians that now realpolitik is the policy of support for democracy and no longer for the structure of dictatorship". (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with a certain pride and a great deal of emotion that i speak today in this house on behalf of my group, the european united left/nordic green left. we were very few indeed - i would say very few - in these benches to denounce the deviations of the tunisian regime and what it did to those who dared, against all odds, to criticize it and denounce its practices, including the torture of human rights defenders. it took a 26-year-old man to set himself on fire to get the tunisian people to stand up, to stop being afraid, because he felt so alone. the hope of freedom was born there. it took more than 50 deaths for the european union to dare to issue a timid communiqué calling for restraint in the use of force without in any way calling into question the sacred partnership of the european union with tunisia, without condemning the violence, mr füle, until saturday. and the least we can say is that the tunisian regime has barely heard from you since your appointment. those words "restraint in the use of force" stuck in my throat. the european parliament was silent, except for a timid statement from the maghreb delegation. it is only on saturday that you spoke, mr president, and today the majority of the european parliament has refused to accept a written resolution. the european institutions are, however, known to be more vehement towards other regimes. as a frenchwoman i know the responsibilities of the french government and i will not go back on what our foreign minister said. obviously, for some, the colonial era is not yet over, but let us hope that this is all in the past. thanks to the courage of the tunisian people, in a few days the tunisian miracle, so dear to some here, collapsed and showed its true face. today, the european union has a great responsibility to support the tunisian people in their democratic transition without interference. the european union must monitor the electoral process, ensure that an independent commission of inquiry sheds light on what happened, on the violence and corruption. the tunisian people must no longer be plundered, the property and assets of the ben ali and trabelsi families must not only be monitored, but frozen. the european union has failed. a long way will have to be done for the tunisians to regain confidence. today, of course, things are still difficult and there can be an example for the maghreb in what is happening there. we know that similar uprisings can take place in all these countries where westerners always put their own interests before those of the people concerned. men have already set themselves on fire in algeria, egypt and mauritania. it is time to turn speeches into deeds in the field of democracy and human rights. it is time to re-establish the european union's partnerships with the countries of the south and to finally build them on the democratic demand, respect for human rights and equality, otherwise the european union will effectively be the bed of fundamentalists.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, we have had four such incidents in europe in ten years. while it is to be welcomed that our warning system has worked properly, the occurrence of this type of incident is absolutely unacceptable. the health of european consumers cannot be the adjustment variable of a system which favours cost reduction and which is, in fact, an indirect incentive when the penalties are as low as they are. and yet, commissioner, we need, and you know this better than anyone, the confidence of our fellow citizens. so what action are you planning? you spoke, and i am glad you did, a moment ago, of making it compulsory to separate the use of industrial fats from the use of fats for food. it must be an obligation, commissioner, and not just a faculty in the manufacturing process, if we are to have much greater certainty. secondly, it is totally unusual that insolvency can be arranged in this way. what action can be taken, commissioner, to ensure that such acts do not go unpunished, because responsibility is still the best safeguard? and finally, what actions do you intend to take to improve the surveillance established by the states? however, nearly three weeks elapsed between the time the grease was delivered and the time the alert was issued. it is not the commission's fault, of course, but it is simply a problem for consumers in the meantime. do you think we can improve the situation on this point, commissioner?
madam president, commissioner, i think we should be happy, because if we are talking about a crisis today, it is because our system has worked. we have the highest level of consumer protection in the world. consumers need to keep this in mind now. but the system has not worked properly and, before inventing another, i think we really need to look carefully and thoroughly at the reasons which have led to such a delay in the discovery of the problem and ask ourselves about the causes of this delay. but i think we also need to ask ourselves why, beyond the reporting of the crime. i believe that we have engaged the agricultural and agri-food world in a race to low costs, in a race to the lowest prices in terms of supply and we are no longer immune to this kind of deviation with behaviour that is not qualifiable. so, commissioner, are you considering a tightening of the penalties for such acts? my second question is how we will provide immediate - i say immediate - support to the farmers concerned. the margins are so small that if some farmers do not receive support very quickly, or even advances on sums that will one day be due to them, they will have disappeared by the time the procedure is completed at what i would call 'normal' speed.
madam president, i think the member who asked the question had more of a comment on a situation than a question to ask me. of course, we know the system is out of whack. but i would like to stress to the european consumer the severity of our system of protection. we cannot have people saying all the time that nothing is being done, when we have the highest standard in the world.
member of the commission. - when i hear these comments, for which i thank everyone who took part in this debate, i cannot help but reflect on the criticism we have, not just of this, but of almost everything we do as europe, about the extra bureaucracy we impose on everyone when we make regulations and when we require certain controls. we are all consumers, we are all entrepreneurs, we are all businessmen, we are all complaining that we are putting too many obstacles in the way of getting things right. but when cases like this of dioxin arise, we see, as we are hearing today, how much we really need to have certain controls as we have them in place at the moment, how important they are and how we need to be diligent in how we can implement them. as a consumer, i am very sorry to be faced with such a situation, which, like you consumers and like all our consumers in europe, threatens our confidence in the safety of european products. and it makes me angry when i realize that this is happening because people have broken the law because they want to break the law, and not some ordinary mistake. in fact, as the last speaker who spoke today just said, no system works where there is crime. where you have people who want to break the law, you can't have a perfect system that's going to guarantee that everything will go smoothly, that everything will go right. and so the important thing is that we do everything we can to make sure that we have the net well-woven, with the thinnest holes that these criminals cannot get through. i, my experience, have been making laws in countries since 1987, i am 23 years old i make laws and, whenever i make a law, i always see that the big problem is not the clauses you will make in the law, but to try to think how that law will be broken and therefore what you can do to control it so that it is not broken. and i think now that we are actually in this phase of reality. we do not want this to happen again and we must do everything to ensure that our system is one in which anyone who tries to escape, who tries to work outside the rules we have and that we make amongst ourselves, is stopped and stopped as soon as possible. we can act when we are aware of what is happening, you cannot act in ignorance of what is happening. and so, commenting, for example, on the rapid alert system, i'm not saying that the rapid alert system didn't work - the rapid alert system worked well because the second we knew things, everyone was informed of what was happening. that's the rapid alert system, and that way it worked great. and we also want to see that we strengthen as much as possible the regulations and regulation that we have. i also agree, for example, with ms mcguinness that she said about the importance of giving guidelines and that we want those elements in the food chain where there is risk, to have the greatest controls on those risks. and to this end, for example, one of the things we are trying, or will suggest is not to stay only in certain risk elements, accept simple registration of companies, such as for example feed mills, but to have approval after certain due diligence exercises on the applicant as such. we also need to make sure that what actually happened is under control. i am in constant contact with the competent authorities in germany and i am satisfied that they are doing everything possible to not only contain the whole situation as quickly as possible, to know all the information and the full situation as quickly as possible, but also to take action. and i am informed for example that that feed producer from which you gave misleading information, because he said he supplied only ten farms when in fact he supplied nine hundred, he is already under proceedings taken by the prosecution in germany, because it was bad information that could have had many consequences. we can also confirm that products that went out of germany, such as eggs, which were intended to be used for food production, were used in food production, but because they were also mixed with other non-german products, when these products were tested, the dioxin level was found to be very low. and i want to make one last comment here, because the time has passed: i also agree that we should have the toughest possible sanctions against abusers. it must be understood, however, that these types of measures are not something that we as the commission can do for them, or that we as the commission can impose on them, but are things that the member states want to enforce as much as possible in their own country.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for the work we have done together on this issue, which has enabled all the political groups in this parliament to reach a common position and to be led to put an oral question and to draw up a resolution accompanying the voluntary partnership agreements. the subject is important. as you all know, the forest is retreating. every two seconds, the equivalent of a football field is destroyed worldwide, and in one year, the equivalent of the territory of greece is deforested, and this is obviously dramatic. this is dramatic from the point of view of biodiversity: only a few thousand plant and animal species are endangered, while the most affected forests - tropical forests - comprise half of the world's biodiversity. this is of course also dramatic from the point of view of climate change: deforestation contributes up to 20% to the greenhouse effect. and deforestation is endangering the lives of some hundreds of millions of people who live in or on the forests. the logging and forestry industry are among the main causes of deforestation, particularly in the area of interest to us today, the congo basin. it is estimated that 20 to 40 percent of the timber harvested and traded worldwide is illegal. so the question we are discussing today is obviously a vital one. these voluntary partnership agreements were approved under the approval procedure in the committee on international trade. this procedure, thanks to the treaty of lisbon, allows the european parliament to express its views, but at the same time it can only say yes or no. that is why this debate is extremely important, because it allows us to go into more detail and allows you, commissioner, as the commission's representative, to answer the questions put to you by parliament. these agreements are important, they allow for the traceability of the wood. they also set up independent verification procedures and support forest policies and governance in the countries concerned. today we are talking about congo brazzaville and cameroon. but first, before we go into these agreements and the questions in parliament, we must make a distinction between legal and sustainable timber. of course, we are talking about the legality of timber here, but the legality of timber does not mean the sustainability of logging. so the first general question i would ask the commission is: how does the commission commit itself to ensuring overall coherence around the question of forests - 2011 is the international year of forests - taking into account what was said in nagoya, taking into account what was also decided in cancun, notably on the redd-plus mechanism and also taking into account the negotiated trade agreements which sometimes, by liberalizing the timber trade, contribute to deforestation? secondly, we are still waiting for a response from the european commission on the question of agrofuels and indirect land use change. you know that parliament has asked you to include these issues in the criteria for assessing the sustainability of agrofuels. with regard more specifically to voluntary partnership agreements, there are many positive elements: we highly appreciated the work of negotiation and, in particular, of association of civil society actors in cameroon and the republic of congo; we know that it is not easy and from this point of view it seems that these voluntary partnership agreements are a success. but as i said earlier, a number of questions and requests remain: commissioner, are you prepared to come to us, for example, every six months or six months after an agreement has been signed, to report on the implementation of the agreement? because it is obvious that there can be a big difference between the quality of the negotiation and the implementation. we would therefore like to know from you whether the stakeholders, in particular civil society actors, continue to be involved in implementation. in countries where it is not always easy to complain, especially when there is corruption, are there any complaint mechanisms - especially independent ones - that would allow these civil society actors to denounce poor implementation, to say that their voice is no longer heard? in the same way, we would like you to report regularly on the impact of the implementation of these agreements, so that you can tell us where we are, both in terms of the overall coherence of the commission's action on forests and in terms of specific implementation on the question of the legality of timber. finally, you say that there is no budget in these agreements. but obviously budgets will have to accompany these policies, so can you clarify the budgetary issue around these voluntary partnership agreements?
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr jadot, for his support for the voluntary partnership agreements on forest law enforcement, governance and trade with congo and cameroon. i hope this house will follow the recommendations for consent to conclude these two agreements. this would also encourage the parliaments in both cameroon and congo to complete their consideration. it is important that both the european union and our partner countries endorse the vpas, since illegal logging is a problem for all. i know that illegal logging is just the visible tip of the iceberg. basically we are talking about starting to work together for sustainable management of forestry resources. and, to answer one of the rapporteur’s suggestions immediately, i could say that, yes, i am ready to come here every six months, as parliament calls me, to monitor the implementation of these agreements. it is true that this is a commitment. there are risks but this is the only way, in my opinion, to achieve really sustainable management of this resource, because if we do not do this, we will not manage to be successful through declarations alone. for our partner countries there is a lot of commitment, but i believe that one important factor is the loss that results from illegal logging. each year, usd 10-15 billion is lost in revenue. illegal logging also has extremely negative consequences for indigenous peoples, for biodiversity and in terms of climate change. at the same time, it is also important to emphasise that the eu is one of the biggest markets for tropical wood. this means that our approach is extremely important in how the whole issue is being addressed. of the tropical wood arriving in the eu, 20% comes from illegal sources, so we have an obligation to ensure that we source only legal wood. the climate change issue is another concern for everyone, and the protection of forests needs to start somewhere. it is very simple to say that we need to pay to protect forests: it is a simple formula, but applying it requires a lot of commitment from both sides. i shall try to answer a couple of questions that have been put to me. on enforcement and implementation, the vpa establishes a joint committee to monitor implementation of the agreement. it will also establish an independent audit to analyse the legality assurance system and its effectiveness and efficiency. there is also an annual reporting mechanism, and the annual report will be made public and will definitely be available to the european parliament. moreover, in preparation for the vpas, we have involved civil society and indigenous peoples. until now they had been completely left out of the process, so we have agreed, under the new agreements, to set up multi-stakeholder committees to monitor, or guide, the implementation process where indigenous people are involved. in addition, the vpas include a complaints mechanism, and the independent auditor will have access to, and will rely on, information from a wide array of sources, including civil society and communities. there is a definite cost in terms of resources. between 2002 and 2008, the eu contributed eur 544 million to forestry in general in the developing world, some of it directed to flegt work in individual countries. the commission has so far spent a further eur 35 million to support flegt more generally, and we will spend eur 35 million more between 2011 and 2013. i would emphasis, too, that member states also make fiscal contributions. we have also dedicated human resources to the implementation of flegt. i have seven civil servants dealing with this, and they are working closely with the european forest institute and national forest authorities. an additional effort has been made in the form of the illegal timber regulation, adopted in 2010 as a key element of the flegt action plan, and this will complement the vpa approach. it will discourage unregulated, unsustainable exploitation of forests. the recent agreement in cancún on action to reduce emissions due to deforestation and forest degradation (known as ‘redd’) will facilitate further commission support for developing countries. our future work on forest governance through vpas will be helped by the fact that redd makes provision for governance and for observance of the rights of indigenous peoples and members of local communities. i take note of the human rights situation in partner countries. i agree with the draft motion for a resolution that the commission should continue to focus on these issues. i can assure you that we keep human rights issues at the centre of our political dialogue with the partner countries, and i can assure you that the fight against corruption is one of the issues we address when dealing with the partner countries. but i would emphasise one particular point that represents encouragement for the whole process: the fact that partner countries feel engaged. without real engagement from our partner countries, given all the weaknesses at administrative level, we cannot protect forests more effectively. i know that this is the start of the process, but it is a start being made by both sides, and i am always ready to come to parliament to report on how the implementation is going. however, with flegt we are definitely not taking a wrong step. it is a step in the right direction: we are not increasing the risk. perhaps we are not providing entirely sufficient solutions, but at least it is a decent step that we can be proud of.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these partnership agreements between the european union, cameroon and the congo should in principle be good news for these populations, good news for biodiversity. but this is only one step in a long process which the european parliament will follow closely. if we want this agreement to allow the establishment of a regulated, transparent and environmentally friendly timber trade, for the benefit of local people and not just a few more or less legal groups, the european union must ensure that the rights of local and indigenous people are fully respected and that their participation in the consultations is effective. it must help to strengthen the capacities of the actors, to fight against corruption, and to establish genuine forest governance. the agreements must not be a pretext for perpetuating the plundering of the natural resources of the developing countries, but must allow a rebalancing of relations between the european union and these countries.
member of the commission. − madam president, the debate definitely went beyond the scope of this voluntary partnership agreement. it is not only trade that affects forests: the forest is an energy resource for these countries, and population growth also has an impact on the forest. so i would like to emphasise again that this is a first step in addressing just one of the areas of concern. i know that it is not a solution, but you have to start somewhere in addressing the issues. also, i would not like to discourage you with regard to the level of commitment of the countries concerned. i know that dealing with these countries is sometimes not simple, but they are countries with a difficult history. they got their independence 50 years ago, and not exactly in the same circumstances as some of our countries got independence, so things take time. it takes time to establish state institutions capable of fighting corruption or establishing the management of resources, and they are on the right track. in africa, in particular, they have economic growth even in times of crisis, and this means they are getting stronger and getting better. i realise this is just one indicator, but overall there has been encouraging news, and the only way we can improve the process is by working together. that is where we come in with sustainable forest management: we are talking about congo-brazzaville (the republic of the congo) and cameroon today, but we are also working with the democratic republic of the congo and with indonesia. we are still negotiating but we have high hopes of a positive conclusion. so i would say that the risks here are minimal. commitment is the starting point and i look on this process as a very positive one. we should also consider the global commitment to fight climate change. cancún gave some assurances that other parts of the world also take things seriously in that regard. we are not the only ones who would like the world to be fair and sustainable, and other parts of the world will learn from us. let us take, for example, energy efficiency drives. we made a start, and other parts of the world have followed. the same applies to resource efficiency. if we can use less timber, then other parts of the world will definitely learn from our example. i believe there are a lot of ways in which we can lead. last but not least, i would like, once again, to guarantee that the commission will conduct monitoring, not only by my own staff but also through the eu delegations and the member state delegations that we have. this is one of the processes in which we share our efforts with the member states. the commission does not simply work alone and, in many respects, member states’ experience has been particularly crucial in concluding this voluntary partnership agreement. i would ask this house really very much to deal with this consent process because i believe it is a healthy process, it goes in the right direction and at the same time does not provide the answers on all the issues that you have raised today.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, once again i thank the members who have spoken. i think we have all been working in the same direction: to recall this essential point through the vpa, which is the link between development, the environment and the strengthening of civil society. i believe that today, if there is a lever on which we can build sustainable development in these countries, especially african countries, it is obviously the strengthening of civil society. as long as the only or the main element of democracy in these countries is the vote for the president, as we can see clearly - as the history of côte d'ivoire sadly reminds us - we will not make enough progress. so it is essential to strengthen civil society, to have it as a permanent participant in the implementation of these agreements, in the monitoring of logging, in the discussion on the conditions of logging and on the sharing of the revenues linked to logging. it is also through this strengthening of civil society that we best respond to the argument that is often presented to us on the question of china. why should we have to meet the criteria of strong cooperation with europe, social, democratic and environmental criteria, when china offers us a freeway in terms of corruption or pillage? the strengthening of this civil society is the best defence against the system which china is trying to impose in particular in the countries of the south. and then, as you said, commissioner, europe is a big market for tropical wood, but it is also - and this is essential for all loggers, for the whole industry - a stable and profitable market, and this is very important also as a lever in these countries. thank you for your interest in working with the european parliament. we are very excited about this upcoming collaboration.
in writing. i welcome the fact that after five years of negotiations, the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) under the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) action plan are being concluded, one with cameroon and the other with the republic of congo. these agreements will help to ensure good forest governance by granting a flegt licence to forest products from these countries and thus ensuring sustainable exploitation and management of forests. it is more than necessary to have a system which allows the monitoring of the movements of wood and its products from harvest to export. 20% to 30% of the world's industrial timber production is of fraudulent origin and 60% of logging in africa has been illegal over the past ten years. these vpas will help to preserve the forests of these countries by fighting illegal logging, which is responsible for significant environmental, economic and social damage. the great advantage of these vpas is that they will apply to all exports between the eu and these countries as well as to all other timber importing countries. i hope that this vpa system will be rapidly extended to other forestry countries.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i think it is somewhat inappropriate to call the interim economic partnership agreements 'pacific agreements', since only two of the 15 acp states in the area are signatories. it is clear that these agreements are more in the form of bilateral agreements than genuine regional agreements, bilateral agreements which deviate from the stated objectives of the epas, namely regional integration. how can we not see this as an illustration of what civil society actors in the pacific and africa are denouncing, namely that a number of acp countries have been forced to sign individual agreements because the commission has failed to make epas a real instrument of development partnership? these strong pressures exerted by the european negotiators on the acp states were denounced by the acp countries themselves at the 92nd session of the african, caribbean and pacific council of ministers, held in brussels from 8 to 12 november 2010. the tragic reality of epas, agreements negotiated by the european commission, is that they are a failure even before they come into force. the failure of the negotiations has led many acp countries to ask the eu member states to consider revising the negotiating mandate given to the european commission in june 2002.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the derogation from the rules of origin granted to papua new guinea for processed fishery products, particularly canned tuna, which seems to me to be extremely dangerous. this acp country enjoys preferential access to the european market, i.e. full exemption from customs duties on canned tuna which it exports to our market. i do not question the development policy that the agreement implements. on the other hand, the derogation from the rules of origin for canned tuna is totally unacceptable. this derogation allows for the establishment of external operators in papua new guinea and therefore provides very little benefit to employment and the local population. we must allow development aid, but it must be fair and effective, and it must benefit the regions concerned. community tuna imports increased from 9 200 tonnes to 16 200 tonnes from 2008 to 2009. they doubled in just one year. this phenomenon can only worsen if this derogation is maintained. moreover, these products do not meet the same social, health and resource conservation standards as those imposed on european products. in particular, it is impossible to verify the origin of the catches. ladies and gentlemen, has the european commission not taken the time to read my report on the origin of imports of fishery and aquaculture products into the european union? if that's the case, it's hopeless. we cannot sacrifice european jobs and the quality of products sold on the european market in this way. i do not want a situation which is destructive for the european processing industry to be established in the long term.
mr president, in iraq, in egypt, the christians say: "our ordeal is heavy". soon, dear colleagues, there will be no more christians in the lands that saw the birth of christianity. in turkey - we were talking about it a moment ago - a secular muslim country, a country that is knocking on our door, 20 percent of the population was christian a hundred years ago, they are less than 1 percent today. the movement we are witnessing is actually a movement of the background. the arab-muslim world persecutes its christians, condemns them, prevents their conversion, punishes them, kills them. it is very clear that religion, islam, is becoming a state religion. as a result, christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the presence of christians everywhere is a balancing factor. it is therefore essential that it be defended. and i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what has become of the human rights defenders who, like us, are proud of the west's secularism and pluralism and who look down with shame on an east which is gradually becoming exclusively religious.
mr president, like many of our colleagues, i too wanted to address the question of the persecution of christians throughout the world, especially christians in the east. there is no need to recall the recent horrors. i would like to remind you, quite solemnly, that defending christians in the east as well as in the rest of the world, defending religious freedom, the diversity of beliefs, is defending freedom, democracy and human rights, which are values at the heart of the european project and which are, of course, at any rate we are all convinced here, universal values. it is really time now, beyond the indignation, the emotion, the solemn condemnations, to move from words to deeds. i therefore urge the authorities of the european union, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, but also all our governments, the foreign ministers, to take specific measures, to put in place a specific, concrete action plan to make respect for religious diversity and the fight against all forms of religious persecution a priority.
the examination of the point is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs michèle striffler, on behalf of the committee on development, on the implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid: the commission has also received a communication from the european parliament and the council on the mid-term review of its action plan and future prospects [2010/2101 (ini) ].
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the overall humanitarian situation has worsened, the humanitarian challenges and needs are immense and there is a multiplication of areas of intervention. the european consensus on humanitarian aid is a fundamental instrument that remains highly relevant in this changing humanitarian context. humanitarian challenges can be met through the rigorous implementation of the consensus and its action plan. however, the consensus remains too little known beyond humanitarian partners. efforts should therefore be made to increase its visibility and raise awareness among member states and stakeholders. it is necessary to advocate that this consensus be disseminated, understood and applied within the european external action service and by military actors. in 2009, the humanitarian aid and food aid working group was established within the council, which has become a relevant forum, but whose role should be strengthened in terms of coordination between member states and monitoring the implementation of the consensus and advocacy for humanitarian aid vis-à-vis the other working groups of the psc council. the mid-term review of the action plan is a unique opportunity to strengthen action in areas that deserve more attention, such as, first, the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law, because humanitarian aid is not a crisis management instrument and the increasing politicization of humanitarian aid and its consequences on respect for the humanitarian space should be regretted. a second area concerns issues related to quality, coordination and coherence in the delivery of eu humanitarian aid, and a third element is the clarification of the use of military and civil protection means and capabilities in accordance with the humanitarian consensus and un guidelines. the distinction between the mandates of military and humanitarian actors must remain clear and dialogue between military and humanitarian actors is necessary to foster mutual understanding. in addition, i call on the european commission in my report to come forward with very ambitious legislative proposals to create a european protection force and i welcome the recent commission communication on strengthening the european union's disaster response capabilities. finally, the dimension of disaster risk reduction and the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development must be strengthened. the treaty of lisbon introduced the european external action service. we have therefore been committed during the negotiations to defending the independence of dg eco and to avoiding any possible instrumentalisation of humanitarian aid for foreign policy purposes. strict and transparent rules should be established for cooperation and coordination between the european external action service and the commission for the management of a large-scale crisis. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the increase in sexual violence - i am thinking in particular of the eastern republic of congo in kivu - and the importance of systematically integrating gender and reproductive health into the humanitarian response in the emergency health services.
in writing. the link between the european common agricultural policy and global food security is an important theme to be integrated into the post-2013 cap design process. the cap's priorities must be put into perspective, not only with the aspirations of our present society, but also with the global constraints of the future. according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, food production must increase by at least 70 percent to meet the needs of the world's growing population. european production must take account of global food security and strengthen european production in order to limit imports. i also support the proposal to revise financial legislation to combat price volatility, which is largely caused by speculation. to be effective, however, this reflection must be carried out in parallel at international level. i welcome the fact that the french presidency of the g20 has included among its priorities the fight against the volatility of raw materials and agricultural products.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president, mr prime minister, while acknowledging from the outset that you had taken over the presidency of the european union in the very difficult context of the crisis, you had nevertheless indicated that you would make social issues one of your priorities and announced a statute to protect public services. you didn't do any of that. not only has there been no initiative to protect services of general interest, but today, in the context of the enhanced stability pact, we are entering a worrying spiral where, in order to reduce the debt of the states, the vultures of the financial markets and their rating agencies are pushing the states to sell their public assets which are an asset for justice and equality. as regards social matters, parliament's vigilance was needed to push back the increase in working hours for lorry drivers or the so-called 'single permit' project, an extended version of the bolkestein directive. we were in the european year for combating poverty. there is not one poor person less in the european union, there are always more! and it is clear that the means of combating the crisis are ineffective because they are a bargain for social rights. the strategy adopted is to reassure the creditors of over-indebted states on a permanent basis, because of the lower taxation of capital and the fall in growth due to the decline in purchasing power and austerity - a word i heard mr barroso say for the first time. and for that, you now want to check the budgets of the states a priori instead of the national parliaments. you have secretly initiated a revision of the european treaties, which you told us yesterday were intangible. on the other hand, you have consistently refused to discuss the establishment of a social and environmental development fund, supported by a tax on capital movements, by upward harmonization of capital taxation, by the creation of a monetary european central bank to buy back the debts of states and by the development of public services essential to social justice and progress. at the beginning of your presidency, mr prime minister, you said that you wanted a sober presidency, and that was to your credit. but during this period, it is clear that the financial markets and major shareholders have had enough. the people are increasingly destitute.
mr president, mr prime minister, with your ministers, joëlle milquet and laurette onkelinx, we have worked very well both to ensure that the voice of the european parliament was heard when the employment guidelines were adopted by the council, where our positions were taken into account, but also on the question of public services, since the role played by these services at the heart of the european social model was reaffirmed during your presidency. i hope that the dynamism thus instilled in the interinstitutional dialogue will be able to continue both in the work of the commission and in the work of the presidency that is to come. there is also another aspect which we have worked on a great deal together, which is the question of how the economic governance you have mentioned should be based on two feet, because if it treats the employment issue as a balance, then it is leading us into the wall. and i am concerned about the way the commission, in the european semester package, is dealing with this matter, proposing to the member states to reduce wages here and there or to increase, almost blindly, the retirement age and to lower the level of pensions. this is not the spirit in which economic governance can bring success to the european question, the spirit that our workers and our citizens expect.
in writing. there are a very large number of enterprises in europe, a very large number of forms for these enterprises and a very large number of rules that apply to them. however, since 1978, there has been european regulation governing mergers between public limited companies of the same member state. it is important to regulate these transactions because they can have a significant impact on the interests of workers, shareholders and creditors of these companies. the latter may be harmed, for example, if the merger is annulled a posteriori. here, as elsewhere in european affairs, we need clarity and legal certainty. this is the objective pursued by the codification of this directive. i voted for this resolution because i believe that trust is a great engine for growth.
in writing. this protocol is only a reconciliation of the eu-jordan euro-mediterranean association agreement with what has actually been applied since 1 january 2007. that's a load of crap. the rush to establish the euro-mediterranean free trade area by 2015 justifies all the breaches of democratic principles. these blind methods have just proved their limitations in tunisia. i am voting against this text.
in writing. not content with subtly dividing african regional integration as elsewhere in the world, the european union is now imposing its neoliberal diktat even in the skies of africa. the commission's decoys are not very good at concealing this fact. the agreement is not 'aimed at increasing the total volume of air traffic'? but there is no way to stop such an increase in traffic! does this agreement "not prevent a state from imposing taxes, duties, taxes or charges on fuel"? but the ecological efficiency is being undermined by the restrictions imposed on it! in fact, whereas the states used to decide sovereignly on the organisation of their access agreements with the companies, only the market will now decide.
in writing. although working conditions have improved in recent decades in the construction sector, the european union must be able to remain at the forefront of the quality of working conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this regulation establishing harmonised marketing conditions for construction products. in order to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers and other users of construction products, it is necessary to include the labelling of dangerous substances in the new rules on the marketing of construction products. the regulation updates and replaces the current rules in order to reduce red tape and increase transparency, including through new simplified performance evaluation procedures for small enterprises.
in writing. labelling and information on dangerous substances in all kinds of products, whether chemical or construction, is one of the acquis of the european union. since the reach regulation, the eu has demonstrated its added value in the area of safety and transparency of so-called dangerous products. once again in strasbourg we voted for a regulation which harmonizes the conditions for marketing construction products and ensured that the 'declaration of performance' of each product contains information on dangerous substances. health and safety are priorities and we should welcome the fact that european standards allow for this high level of transparency and safety. however, if our internal market is now secure, what about the globalised market we are in? we must now act on our partners outside the eu who do not necessarily have the same level of standards!
in writing. the european union is a global player. it is with this conviction that the drafters of the lisbon treaty have strengthened the ambitions of europeans on the international stage. the humanitarian aspect is very much a part of this great project. the union is already the world's largest donor, with 40% of the contributions. this joint declaration is based on common principles and approaches, and aims to encourage concerted and coordinated action within the european union and with other actors, to improve the collective response to humanitarian crises . i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which recalls that humanitarian aid must be provided in an adequate and effective manner; stresses the importance of good coordination; stresses the subsidiarity of the provision of civil and military protection, and the essential nature of the reduction of risks from natural disasters; finally, the commission calls on the union to strengthen the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
there were many humanitarian crises in 2010: haiti, pakistan... the tragedies experienced by certain populations, often among the most disadvantaged, throughout the world require rapid and effective action by international organisations and also by the european union, which is one of the major actors in the field of development aid and crisis management. on tuesday, 18 january, we therefore adopted mrs striffler's resolution calling for increased funding for humanitarian aid. we should also create a european rapid reaction force for all these crises. the european commission is receptive to this discourse and should make a proposal to optimise the existing civil protection system. it is obvious that the resources already available in the member states must be used, but at the same time much more effective, much more operational coordination would also be required. avoid slow reaction times, duplicate aid, inconsistencies in the field... there are many areas for improvement and the resolution adopted by parliament aims to provide the first elements of a response.
in writing. i believe that we must strengthen the instruments at the disposal of the european union to deal with disasters such as those that struck haiti just a year ago with an earthquake, followed more recently by an outbreak of cholera. for my group and myself, we must promote increased funding for humanitarian aid to enable more interventions, especially towards the most vulnerable people, and by making sure that there is a clear distinction between military and humanitarian missions, that the use of military resources is kept to a minimum and that intervention is only a last resort.
in writing. first policy implemented, first expenditure until recently, agriculture has been at the heart of the european project. although this has been reduced in recent decades to other important aspects, it must not be forgotten that the agricultural independence of the continent is a major strategic challenge. the president of the european people's party group, joseph daul, stressed at the beginning of the new year that food security will be the main topic in 2011. the world shortage and the crises that result from it should alert us to the seriousness of the situation: soaring prices, scarcity of essential resources, europe must respond to this new challenge. environmental issues add to the complexity and importance of the problem. that is why i voted for this resolution which aims to recognise the strategic nature of the issue. it recalls the role that the union can play in managing global stocks, the adequacy of the cap to meet these challenges and draws attention to the harmful impacts of speculation on the price of raw materials.
in writing. access to food for all, in a context of increasing global demand and food insecurity for several billion people worldwide, is a huge and paramount challenge. in the european union alone, 16% of citizens live below the poverty line and have difficulty in meeting the most basic needs: housing, health care and, of course, food. it is in this spirit that, in order to stimulate debate, we voted a resolution recognising agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security. as we reflect on the future of the cap, it seems necessary to keep in mind the need and the right that should be universal, to food for all. one of our objectives is to combat speculation in the agricultural sector: we are calling for a revision of the legislation on financial instruments. we need less price volatility and more transparency. we also put forward the idea of a 'targeted global food stockpile system' to manage crises more effectively and invite the commission to consider such measures.
in writing. we are at a pivotal moment in defining what the future reform of the common agricultural policy should be. this is a question that concerns europeans, of course, but also citizens of the world. this new policy will therefore have to be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the world organization of agricultural markets must be re-designed in the light of the two main aims of the common agricultural policy: to guarantee food security and to save the living fabric of farmers and their families, both in our own country and in the poorest countries. this also requires the creation of a global and targeted food stock system, consisting of emergency stocks to reduce hunger and stocks to regulate commodity prices. this system should be managed by the un through its world food and agriculture organization, fao.
in writing. yes, agriculture is a strategic sector and food security is an imperative. it took decades for europe to realize this. but the title of this report is misleading. at no time is the devastating consequences of global free trade and market logic denounced. we'll continue to eat strawberries in the winter, whether they come from the southern hemisphere or from energy- and water-intensive greenhouses. we will continue to promote the import of african green beans, to the detriment of local food crops and in competition with our own production. we will continue to call for the regulation of the markets for agricultural products and their derivatives, even though the latter is an aberrant notion and we should be promoting quality agriculture and short-circuits, ruthlessly prosecuting the abuses of intermediaries and large retailers. we will be watching helplessly as foreign countries squander their own potential on the arable land of the most vulnerable countries, worrying without action about what is potentially an explosive situation. you've made progress but you still have a long way to go. by refusing to attack the very system that is the cause of our problems, you are condemning yourself to failure.
in writing. food security is a key issue to which the european union must respond effectively; i therefore supported the report by my social democrat colleague, who advocates a strong, responsible cap geared towards young farmers; who proposes to combat speculation on agricultural markets resulting in price volatility; and who reaffirms that the fight against poverty in the union and worldwide must be a priority, making food security and access to food a fundamental human right. the eu must respond to current food challenges and anticipate future food difficulties, which is why the idea of creating a targeted global food stockpiling system seems to me to be highly relevant, even if it will not be easy to implement.
in writing. recalling that food security is a fundamental human right that must be guaranteed, demanding payment from farmers for the efforts they make to provide public goods, proposing a food stockpile system managed by the un are all concessions to our theses. i'm glad you did. the inclusion of commodity derivatives among financial products or the restriction of access to agricultural financial markets to operators linked to agricultural production also indicate a change in attitudes. but the relocation and end of productivism, necessary for food self-sufficiency and the preservation of biodiversity, is still far off. the financialization of agricultural markets is not fundamentally called into question. worse, there are some gmo varieties that are on the way to being approved. to encourage good intentions, i will refrain from doing so.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a text on the recognition of agriculture on which i had to abstain. the report takes account of many of the farmers' key concerns, such as support for small-scale production, young farmers and the fight against price speculation. the text also recalls the need for substantial funding for the future cap. while the report is generally positive, it includes an intolerable measure: the acceleration of the commission's procedures for authorizing gmos. this measure refuses to take into account a real assessment of products before they are placed on the market and ignores the dangers of the marketing of gmos, which have been repeatedly denounced. this measure goes against any minimal consideration of food safety and the precautionary principle. it is a dangerous measure and it is scandalous to include it in a report which is intended to take account of the strategic importance of agriculture. the question of gmos alone deserves a debate which the european institutions refuse to hold.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the central role that agriculture must play in european policy. european citizens are increasingly demanding food safety, which must be guaranteed throughout the production, processing and distribution chain. sustainable, safe and equitable agriculture faces many challenges: adapting to climate change, managing the effects of globalisation, preserving biodiversity, maintaining farmers' living standards and ensuring our food independence in a highly stressed global market. agriculture is an integral part of our heritage and has shaped our identity, our lifestyles and our landscapes for centuries. i welcome the eu's efforts in agriculture, but there is still a lot of work to be done in the reform of the cap. i therefore call on the eu to focus its action on small farmers, who are the most numerous but most vulnerable. recognising agriculture as a strategic sector should be an opportunity to strengthen its social dimension, which has not been sufficiently taken into account until now. farmers also need security.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i will allow myself four minutes and reserve the two minutes for the end of the debate. mr president, madam president of the council, commissioner, 'finally!' i would say, we see the end of the tunnel on this important subject for patients. we could no longer continue in a confused situation where the law was enacted by the court of justice of the european union. the directive now lays down clear rules for the mobility of patients across europe. what kind of care is available abroad? how and on what grounds can you be reimbursed? how are responsibilities divided between the member state of affiliation and the member state of treatment? all the answers to these questions are now contained in the draft directive. let me first of all thank the belgian presidency for its excellent work throughout the negotiations. its ability to persuade was decisive because - it must be stressed - many member states did not want this directive. i think that was irresponsible. i also want to pay tribute to my friend and former member of parliament john bowis who is in the gallery. as rapporteur for the first reading, he was also the architect of this directive and has always campaigned for the rights of patients. of course, i also thank commissioner dalli and my fictitious rapporteurs, who have contributed very actively to the outcome of the negotiations, and without whom nothing would have been possible. what is at stake for patients here? medical progress means that the supply of all pathologies can no longer be strictly national and that sometimes it is necessary to cross borders to seek treatment. this may be the case for patients living in border areas, where care provided abroad may be closer to home. this may also be due to the fact that there are more resources and expertise available in another member state, such as for certain highly specialised treatments. finally, for some europeans, it may simply be more convenient to receive care outside their country of affiliation because they have family living in another member state. consumers, employees, students and now patients will therefore be able to benefit from mobility rights within the union through clear legislative provisions. of course, this is not to encourage any kind of medical tourism, since social security schemes, their organisation and management remain the sole responsibility of the member states. patients will therefore now generally be able to receive in another member state all the care to which they are entitled in their home country and be reimbursed up to the amount of reimbursement provided for by their own system. for hospital care involving an overnight stay, or using specialised or expensive technology, the member state may set up a system of prior authorisation. this will take into account the planning and investment needs of member states in their care structure. parliament has succeeded in having the conditions for refusing prior authorization limited and set out in a closed list, in order to ensure legal certainty for patients. parliament also made further progress: each member state will have to set up national contact points to provide information and guidance to patients in accordance with their needs. each national contact point will operate as a single point of contact and will need to network with the other national contact points. this will provide the patient with clear and accurate information. the issue of reimbursement, which is in fact a major obstacle, has been greatly improved and either a compensation mechanism can be used as is currently the case with regulation 883/2004 on social security, or the patient will have to advance the payment and be reimbursed as soon as possible. we also ended up getting patients with rare diseases to be less isolated and to have access to outside expertise that will diagnose the disease and allow for prior authorisation for care. i would like to conclude by saying that, thanks to european cooperation in areas such as the european reference networks, patients will thus have access to highly specialised care, with the aim of encouraging the sharing of experiences, in order to improve performance, diagnostics and therapeutics in the interests of patients. so today we can say that we have achieved our goal and i thank all my colleagues for that. i would say that the health europe is being built through this directive.
mr president, commissioner, madam president, first of all, let me say that we are pleased with the progress made by this directive which we are going to vote on tomorrow. for years, only the court of justice of the european communities has been able to arbitrate disputes concerning crossborder healthcare and patients' rights. patient mobility is no longer a marginal phenomenon in europe but has become a daily reality. crossborder treatment now accounts for 1% of total health expenditure in europe. however, patient mobility should not be confused with medical tourism, which has developed in recent years. the latter is organized and, alas! is proving increasingly lucrative. health care is gradually becoming a competitive market. a german goes to hungary for dental treatment, an englishman - if he can afford it - goes to france to have surgery faster. there are many examples. but we have to make sure that health is not treated as a commodity, so that we are all equal. and that is why, over the last three years, we have defended the principle of prior authorization by the member state of affiliation for both hospital and non-hospital care. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs here - mrs grossetête and our socialist rapporteur, dagmar roth-behrendt, to whom i would like to pay special tribute - for the work they have done, which has made important progress in, for example, reimbursement of medical care, the establishment of national contact points and european reference networks, the treatment of rare diseases and increased cooperation between member states. mr president, commissioner, our work is not finished. we must go further, beyond this breakthrough, to help close the gaps we still have in europe and i know that we can all work together to ensure that the patient and the european citizens are treated equally.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, this agreement has the merit, as my colleagues have said, of bringing some legal clarification. until now, these matters have been dealt with by the court of justice, which has led to legal uncertainty, which we are now overcoming, and i think we should be very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, to the fictitious rapporteurs and also to mr dalli for their work. these provisions improve patient information, quality of care, costs and reimbursement procedures. i am also pleased with this system of prior authorization for the most demanding care, including hospital care, specialised care or care which poses a particular risk to patients. the aim is not to prevent patients from seeking treatment abroad, but to avoid medical tourism and to avoid jeopardizing social security systems. however, i have a mixed feeling about the conditions for implementing this procedure, which may pose risks of unequal treatment between patients in the member states. first, what does reasonable delay mean? care must be taken that the term "reasonable" does not jeopardize the needs of patients. we must also ensure that member states put in place financial procedures to prevent patients, especially the most modest ones, from incurring excessive costs. it would not be acceptable for administrative difficulties to diminish the rights of patients. finally, the different decisions of the member states on reimbursement of the costs of care can also lead to inequalities between patients if there is a minimum reimbursement on the one hand and something else on the other. that, mr president, is what i wanted to defend.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i fully share your view and i would first like to thank the many members who have spoken throughout this debate in support of this directive. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs from each political group - i see dagmar roth-behrendt, but i am thinking of all my colleagues, i cannot name them all - and i thank them for their active participation and for their contribution to the political agreement reached with the council on 21 december, which will be concluded tomorrow. so to my colleagues who have expressed a number of reservations about medical tourism, among other things, i say, "well, no! we are making sure of that". the directive provides for the safeguard clause for the member states, the directive provides for the member states to be able to control the planning of their health care and their infrastructure and all this will be done precisely to avoid medical tourism. to those who think that this directive is not ambitious enough, i say: 'you are right, i too wish we had gone further!' but today we must consider that we are at the first stage of this directive and i see that commissioner dalli, who has helped us a lot in this area, agrees with me. we will all work together to ensure that, first, the directive is transposed in the best possible way. in 30 months' time this directive will be implemented and we must all be vigilant in our member states to ensure that this directive is really in favour of patients' rights. i will end by saying that tomorrow's vote is essential. i hope you will make this directive a success because you will give that success to the patients, because we will finally recognise the right of patients to quality health care.
in writing. compared to the commission's initial proposal, which facilitated the mobility of patient-clients in a market-based view of health, i welcome the progress made in this agreement. the introduction of a system of prior authorization for hospital or other expensive care was essential to safeguard our social protection systems. similarly, the reference to article 168 of the treaty was necessary to ensure respect for the prerogatives of the member states in the organisation of their public health system. finally, there is commendable progress in cooperation and information for patients. however, major gaps remain: the lack of reflection on the mobility of professionals, medical demography, or the ageing of the population. other legislative proposals should address this problem, in particular the one on vocational qualifications, where it will be important to reaffirm that health is a sector with its own specificities and that it is not a commodity governed by the laws of the market alone, but the most valuable asset of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is so much to be said about alzheimer's disease. let me focus on two aspects: the first is the question of keeping seriously ill patients at home. for medical reasons, we know that it's best not to disturb the patients in their environment. a change in the environment can aggravate the disease and its symptoms and make things much more difficult. one of our absolute priorities must be to allow patients to remain in their usual environment for as long as possible. to do this, we need to help families and help those in families who are caring for patients. in short, we must not leave families alone. that's a first point. the second point concerns research. why would you do that? because, ultimately, the hope for alzheimer's is to find a cure, and to find that cure, you need effective research. i hear from people here and there that we need more resources for research. i guess so. but first of all, before we talk about means, we must talk about the use of these means. so far, the research has been too fragmented, too sparse. no priorities have been set. people don't work together, and they don't talk to each other. tomorrow, the cell biologist has to talk to the physiologist, the radiologist, the neurologist. we need to get people to work together better. i therefore call on the commission to give its full weight to the joint research programme which was launched during the french presidency. finally, i want to conclude by telling the patients and their families that things are moving forward. let them have confidence, they are not alone, they are not alone anymore!
member of the commission. − madam president, may i also join you in expressing sympathy to those affected and their families. a year ago, we witnessed in haiti one of the worst natural catastrophes in recent history but this also triggered one of the best displays of solidarity, with people whose resilience in the face of disaster and disorder is a lesson of courage to us all. one year after the disaster, we would like to pay tribute to those who died, but also to those who have survived. we promised them our help, and we stand by our promises. the eu is a critical part of the global solidarity effort for haiti. we have mobilised all the means available to provide both humanitarian assistance and, as commissioner piebalgs will outline later, development aid to rebuild the country. after the earthquake, the eu pledged more than eur 320 million in pure humanitarian aid, of which the commission provided eur 130 million for last year, 2010. these funds allowed us to touch the lives of more than four million haitians through food assistance, sanitation and shelter. close to 1.5 million people have been provided with a place to stay: a basis from which to re-start their life. our assistance targeted not only port-au-prince but also other affected cities – léogâne and jacmel – and we followed, with aid, the 500 000 haitians who left port-au-prince to live with relatives in rural areas, bringing food, water and medical care, clearing the roads and supporting cash-for-work programmes. our current humanitarian assistance is focusing on cholera, using eur 22 million to cover the most essential needs in terms of healthcare, access to proper water supplies and sanitation, information campaigns, epidemiological surveillance and logistics. we have funded treatment for 158 000 people so far but, more significantly, we have provided clean water for half a million and access to safer sanitation for 900 000 people, we have raised awareness among one million haitians about what cholera is, how to avoid getting sick and how to treat cholera, and we have distributed 1.3 million soaps and chlorine tablets to affected communities. we had hoped that one year after the earthquake the situation would be better, but it is not. for this reason we are budgeting for this year, 2011, eur 33 million. we stand ready to provide more if more help is necessary. for 2011, our priorities will be housing, sanitation and healthcare. we will continue to tackle poor sanitation because it is obviously a risk in terms of cholera spreading and affecting communities. we will also continue to assist with healthcare, but the healthcare system of haiti is a shambles. it is not there to help people. in this process we have relied on humanitarian aid workers and i want to express my gratitude to those who have been risking their lives to help the haitian people. we are also supporting commissioner piebalgs in linking relief to rehabilitation and development. for instance, some of the 9th edf ‘b’ envelope funds will be allocated for housing programmes in close coordination with our humanitarian support. i want to stress here that we have been looking at the situation in haiti comprehensively with a view not only to helping people in immediate need but also to building the foundation for longer-term recovery.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are also delivering on the reconstruction front. the eu as a whole – that is the union and the member states – has already committed eur 600 million out of its eur 1.2 billion pledge in new york, and has already disbursed eur 330 million. as part of the overall eu commitment, the union’s pledge was initially announced at eur 460 million, and we consider it necessary to increase that to eur 522 million. out of this pledge we have already committed eur 327 million. ongoing programmes were adjusted, by extending their duration and/or by increasing the financial envelopes, to respond better to revised priorities. new programmes were put in place to address additional needs. disbursements strictly linked to the pledge amounted to eur 74 million in 2010. i believe that, given the situation in haiti, this is quite a good result. one has to realise that the situation there, which was already very difficult before the earthquake, became immensely challenging in its aftermath and even more complicated later – due to hurricane tomas, the cholera epidemic and political instability. aid workers and technical experts were often working in quite difficult conditions. other factors which we need to bear in mind include, firstly, the fact that medium-term to long-term reconstruction assistance is implemented over three to five years and disbursements are spread over the programme’s duration: 2010 was mainly dedicated to committing funds and launching project preparations, including all necessary technical studies and tenders. more concrete activities will be starting in 2011 and we believe that disbursements against the pledge will double to eur 150 million during this year. eu development aid so far has focused, first of all, on providing necessary functions for the government to help deliver the basic services of the state, such as the running of the education system, the healthcare system and the police, and the ability to provide staff in the public sector. the second priority has been immediate reinforcement and reconstruction of strategic infrastructure and roads; and the third priority has been strengthening haitian disaster preparedness and civil protection mechanisms and structures. we have set ourselves the goal of rebuilding a stronger haiti, following the earthquake, on more solid foundations. it is very clear that we need a strong haitian government and we need to focus on priorities. so we very much follow the priorities identified for us by the haitian government. they would really like to strengthen governance – with a particular focus that includes budget support, and taking into account the limited level of government revenue – and to invest substantially in infrastructure, particularly in roads. where can we learn lessons in order to improve the situation? well, we could coordinate the aid better and strengthen cooperation between the commission and the member states. we are now finalising the joint programme in a process that involves the eu member states. we also have good experience of working with all our partners in the interim haiti reconstruction commission and this definitely helps to speed up the process. i believe, however, that we must pursue our strong wish to achieve stability in terms of both aid and the democratic functioning of haiti, because that is clearly a precondition if the efforts of the eu and the entire international community are to be successful. honourable members, we are trying to do our best, but it is clear that we can work better. we have learned from our experiences: the eu is definitely living up to its pledge and to our commitment. so i believe that, while the situation as sometimes portrayed in the media is quite accurate from one perspective, we are advancing. i believe that in 2011 we will see significant changes on the ground – provided that political stability is established in haiti, because instability is definitely hampering our efforts – and we will focus those efforts on rebuilding haiti.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, one year after the earthquake, haiti is still in a state of emergency and reconstruction is still in the early stages, which is due to the structural deficiencies of the haitian state, the lack of political will and decision by the haitian authorities and the lack of support from the international community. without a major decision from the haitian authorities, including expropriation, the millions of rubble blocking reconstruction efforts will not be cleared. i would like to commend the efforts and the work of the humanitarian organizations. progress is being made and millions of lives are being saved. however, humanitarian actors cannot continue to overcome the weaknesses of the haitian state. the european union must therefore do everything in its power to strongly support a legitimate and transparent electoral process in order to guarantee the stability and political will required for reconstruction. it is imperative that it should accompany the future haitian authorities in the organization of their institutions towards a new balance at all levels, towards a fully functioning democracy throughout the reconstruction process. it is also essential that the european commission, as a member of the interim commission for the reconstruction of haiti, and in view of its financial contribution, intervene to accelerate the implementation of the latter's mandate and to ensure its functioning. after the earthquake, the international community decided to rebuild haiti in a different way, without making the same mistakes of the past. it is time to tackle, once and for all, the root causes of poverty in haiti.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, just a year ago, haiti and its people were victims of a terrible disaster. everywhere, desolation and death. we should like to salute the courage of the haitian people and the worldwide spirit of popular solidarity with the victims. popular solidarity because, in europe as elsewhere, it is often those who have little who have given the most. i would also like to thank the cuban government and people solemnly for their help: effective and unbiased commitment, and eloquent results. to date, the cuban medical brigade has treated more than 50,000 cholera cases, helped rebuild 76 health centres and hospitals and operated on many haitians. the eu has also been active in the fight against drug trafficking, and has been active in the fight against drug trafficking. it is so true that a country like norway has wanted to ask cuba to intervene in its place. the european union and the united states would do well to learn from the cuban example rather than indulge in media spectacles that hide a charitable conception of aid which, in the end, serves above all their economic and political interests to the detriment of a sustainable reconstruction of the haitian state and its economy. in view of their historical responsibility for the misfortunes of haiti, it is indecent to see france and the united states acting as lecturers. it is important to remember that it took the worst of disasters to finally get the world bank and the imf to cancel haiti's debt. what is happening in haiti right now shows the limits of the way the un works today. in haiti, humanitarian intervention shows its inability to implement sustainable solutions for the people. worse still, in the medium and long term it is an obstacle to the reconstruction of a democratic state and an economy which finally meets the human development needs of the haitian people. $11.5 billion has been pledged by the international community for the reconstruction of the country. what reconstruction is that? how much of this aid has actually reached the ground? who will decide the plans? will we see, as in kosovo, a people who have lost their jobs watching large multinational companies rebuild their country because they were the only ones who could win international tenders? the european union must not be a paternalistic or neo-colonialist vision, but must, on the contrary, contribute to the emergence of a democratic rebirth of the republic of haiti which is the work of the people themselves. the haitian people were the first in the world to emancipate themselves from french colonialism. in addition to the ravages of war, it cost him more than 20 billion dollars in today's money to "compensate" the slave-owning european colonists. today, because of the crimes against humanity of slavery and colonialism, the european union and, in particular, france, are in moral, political and economic debt to haiti. we must honor that debt of honor.
madam president, following my observation mission to haiti last september, i was able to see the urgent needs that need to be addressed. today, we must move beyond these emergencies to finally reach the stage of development. we must not rebuild but build a country whose foundations and governance have never been solid. first observation - and this has been said by my colleagues - there are 20 million tonnes of rubble to be cleared and only a tiny fraction - 5 per cent - has been cleared in one year. at this rate, it will take more than six years to clear port-au-prince of its debris. it is therefore a political project in itself and the commission must contribute to it. another priority is governance and i am pleased that the european union is contributing a large part of the country's budget support. we must strengthen this financial effort because it is the only way to give the country and the haitian people back their skills. its current dependence on ngos is indicative of basic public services such as health and education. but we should not outsource all public services to ngos. above all, we must strengthen our support for the rapid organization and completion of elections which, i hope, will replace a corrupt political elite. the current oligarchy - we are talking about twenty families - prevents any economic development because it controls trade, without developing the country's production capacities. finally, haiti must be given the means to commit itself so that the country can break out of the dependence which was already threatening it even before the earthquake. i therefore call on the european institutions to set themselves coherent priorities and to give massive support to the establishment of public services with a determined commitment from the future haitian government.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment currently being considered by the lithuanian parliament, which would make public promotion of homosexuality punishable by fines, was drafted in the context of the law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information. how can we, for the so-called defence of minors, infringe both freedom of expression and information and, above all, condone discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation? we know very well that such a text leads to the concealment of sexual orientation, and it undermines the rights that we have defended and that this parliament has defended in favour of lgbt people. furthermore, while we are witnessing at the same time violent actions, attacks against homosexual persons, it is an incitement to criminalize homosexuality or a call for violence. we cannot give young people this image of europe, a closed, intolerant, introverted society which does not take account of the respect due to others. we therefore consider that this law is in complete contradiction with european values, in particular those expressed in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it also opposes - it has been said - the whole body of anti-discrimination legislation in the union, which has also contributed greatly to the development of our national legislation towards greater equality in many aspects of everyday life, from employment to information and education. i thank you, commissioner, for your very clear words and i would like all the groups to hear your arguments and those of my colleagues. i would like to call on all colleagues from all the groups to join the groups of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, alde, greens and gue/ngl, which took the initiative in drafting this resolution.
president of the european council. − first of all i wish you a happy new year. as simple as that and i wish it for you personally and i wish it for our union, in these difficult times. as the last european council is already a month behind us, let me remind you that i already give a full report each time to your conference of presidents on the results of the european council just a few hours after every meeting. at the december european council, we focused on the first day on economic issues and on the second day on foreign policy. on economic policy, we reached some important conclusions. first, we decided on the proposal for a limited treaty amendment required to establish a permanent mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro zone as a whole. following our agreement, in principle, in our october meeting that such a treaty change is needed, i had consulted the members of the european council about its possible wording and content. i secured agreement on a text consisting of two sentences, to be added to article 136 of the treaty. i quote:‘the member states whose currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be activated if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole. the granting of any required financial assistance under the mechanism will be made subject to strict conditionality.’ it is an essential piece in our efforts to make europe more crisis-proof. it is important, not just for legal certainty, but also for market credibility. as this amendment will not increase the competences of the union, all members of the european council agreed that it was appropriate to use a simplified revision procedure. this now requires an opinion from your parliament, as well as from the european commission and the central bank. we hope to secure your approval. i need hardly remind you of the importance of proceeding as rapidly and as smoothly as possible in this matter in a period where market volatility remains a concern. i know that you, and your responsible committees, have been following this matter closely, not least during the work of the task force on economic governance which i chaired and which gave rise to meetings between myself and the seven chairs of the parliamentary committees most involved. i would like to thank president buzek for his contribution on this at the european council and for informing us of parliament’s willingness to proceed quickly in considering this matter. with the benefit of your opinion, the european council will be able to turn this draft decision into a full decision at its march meeting. then the treaty amendment will have to be approved in each member state. the aim is for the amendment to enter into force on 1 january 2013 at the latest, so that the permanent mechanism itself can be in place in june 2013. the european council also examined what could be the key features of the future mechanism. already in october, we had asked the commission to undertake the preparatory work. this resulted in a statement by the eurogroup finance ministers on 28 november, which was fully endorsed atthe european council meeting. it foresees that the future european stability mechanism will be designed on the basis of the current mechanism, so imf involvement is provided for. the eu will continue to adhere strictly to standard imf and international practices. concerning the role of the private sector, decisions will be taken on a case-by-case basis, so private sector involvement will not be a prior requirement for support under the future stability mechanism. finally, the european council also had a very good and in-depth exchange of views on recent economic developments and on how to deal with the challenges for all european economies, short-term and long-term. the president of the central bank was also present and a statement by the heads of state or government of the euro zone and the eu institutions present was welcomed by the european council. this discussion confirmed the sense of determination and unity amongst the member states and the institutions. everybody around the table shared the basic analysis. i insist: all 27 agree, even if the analysis focuses particularly on the current 17 euro countries. we thus have a joint will to make our economies more resistant to crises and to enhance structural economic growth in europe. let me mention the elements of this joint approach, which reflects the statement adopted. three points concern work to be done by the national governments: first, fiscal responsibility; second, stimulating growth; and third, the two countries with support programmes are forcefully implementing the necessary measures and we all welcome the efforts of those two governments, of greece and ireland, and their populations. two other points concern work to be done by the member states and the institutions of the european union together. firstly, the european council asks the other institutions, not least your parliament, to make sure that the agreements reached in october, on the basis of the task force which i chaired, regarding the stability pact and macro-economic surveillance, are in place by the summer. it is our common duty. secondly, we agree to conduct new stress tests in the banking sector to ensure full transparency in the broader context of the eu annual exercise. our determination is clear. the heads of state or government of the euro zone and the eu institutions ‘stand ready to do whatever is required to ensure the stability of the euro zone as a whole’. work is going on to develop these elements of this overall approach. on the second day of our meeting, we focused on our relations with strategic partners. cathy ashton presented progress reports on how to deal with strategic partners and i briefed colleagues about the positive outcome of three recent summit meetings, namely: the summit with president obama, where we opened new avenues for transatlantic cooperation on growth, jobs and security, such as green growth and cyber-security; the summit with president medvedev in which we reached the bilateral agreement onrussia’s wto accession, a major achievement; and the summit with prime minister singh of india, which showed good progress for an ambitious and balanced free trade agreement, hopefully with a result in the first semester of this year, and which also produced a joint declaration on international terrorism. these meetings all showed that, for our partners, the european union is not only an economic union and a trade bloc, but also a geopolitical partner. the european council also decided to give montenegro the status of candidate country. it underlines the conviction within the european council that the countries of the western balkans have a european vocation. finally, we agreed also on the position on côte d'ivoire, in line with what the ministers of foreign affairs decided a few days previously, sending a clear signal on the need to respect the results of democratic elections. as you know, the european council on 4 february will deal principally with our growth agenda. innovation and energy – especially energy security – are key in this regard. in march we will have our first exercise of what is called the european semester. it must not be a bureaucratic process but a real occasion to have an in-depth discussion on the state of play of our economy and the actions to be taken. colleagues, we know of course that we have to strengthen and deepen economic coordination and convergence inside the euro zone. we will work as much as possible in a comprehensive framework and i am convinced we will find the necessary consensus.
president of the commission. − mr president, last year the european union faced a series of stern tests and december’s european council has shown just how determined we are to take whatever decisions are necessary to defend our achievements. in particular, by agreeing to establish a european stability mechanism and to make the linked treaty change, we have demonstrated our total commitment to supporting the euro area and the member states that use it for the benefit of the entire eu. the commission will adopt its formal opinion on the text of the treaty change before the spring european council. we will certainly play our part in explaining to europe’s citizens why this limited change deserves support. this agreement allows us to step up a gear and the commission will work closely with finance ministers to iron out details of the permanent stability mechanism before the spring european council. although this will be an intergovernmental mechanism, which was the only option the member states could consider, it is important that it is set up in a manner fully consistent with the treaty and that it reinforces our stability rules, in accordance with the principles and instruments of budgetary surveillance. these decisions are linked to the wider range of measures we are taking as part of our approach to dealing with both the economic crisis and its consequences and the need to generate growth with jobs. the european council has recognised that. the heads of state and government of the euro area and the european institutions in particular have also made it clear that they stand ready to do whatever is required to ensure the stability of the euro area as a whole. in particular, the heads called for determined action in ensuring the availability of adequate financial support through the european financial stability facility pending the entry into force of the permanent mechanism. these were the conclusions of the last european council. the european council also called for accelerated adoption by june of the commission’s economic governance proposals from last september. it recognised the important role the europe 2020 strategy will also have in returning europe to sustainable growth. the european union semester, which we launched last week with the annual growth survey, ties all these trends together. i believe it breaks new ground, improving decisively the way in which we manage and coordinate our interdependent economies in the european union. it is bringing in genuine european economic governance. this is our new economic governance at work – governance that should be the comprehensive response to the crisis. the commission has signalled this very clearly in the annual growth survey. let me just concentrate on that because i think, based also on the very important conclusions of the december european council, it is now more important than ever to look at the next steps. i believe a new reality is emerging. the politics of economic governance and economic coordination have changed and this is not just because the so-called federalists wanted it. the markets want it. our international partners want it. it is a matter of simple common sense and we are delivering it and will continue to deliver it. the new european semester combines tighter fiscal rules by reinforcing the stability and growth pact with effective economic coordination. it offers ex-ante coordination, which means we discuss each other’s policies, both economic and fiscal, before they are adopted. we are no longer looking back to introduce corrections, but are looking ahead to give guidance. this ex-ante approach is at the heart of what makes this a historic step for the european union. effectively we are introducing a genuine european dimension into national budgetary and economic policy-making. from now on, we will be helping to shape policies upfront rather than assessing and trying to correct them afterwards. the final decisions on national budgets will, of course, be taken by national parliaments. that is right and proper, but this new form of economic governance simply reflects a rational response to a new reality. when we see the level of interdependence in the euro area and the european union as a whole, a country should be able to take decisions knowing what its neighbours intend to do. this sharing of information empowers and strengthens national parliaments. it does not undermine their authority. the annual growth survey launches this process and its key messages are clear: bring back stability, do not delay structural reforms any longer, and speed up growth-enhancing measures. first, we need to re-establish stability by consolidating public finances. unless we balance the books we will not restore confidence in europe’s economies. if we do not restore confidence we will risk economic stagnation and all the negative social consequences that flow from that, especially for employment. but we have to approach this in a sober and well thought-out way. fiscal consolidation does not mean reducing debt by taking a slash-and-burn approach to spending. it is more than anything a matter of prioritising and some areas – innovation, education, new forms of energy – are good candidates for such priority treatment. the second key message from the annual growth survey is to push forward with structural reforms so that we can create new job opportunities. the choice is a simple one: do we want jobless growth or growth with jobs? if the latter, then there are a few things we are going to have to do. we need to urge member states to focus this year on labour market reform so that we can remove obstacles to higher employment levels. we need to help people get back to work or find new jobs by making work more attractive. we need to reform pension systems and make sure that the unemployed are not left worse-off when they find work. let me be quite clear: structural reform does not mean reducing our level of social protection, but it does mean bringing in those who are currently excluded from the labour market, especially our young people. levels of youth unemployment in some member states, even in good times, are a scandal. anyone who truly cares about a social europe knows this cannot continue. in the face of increased international competition, we can only sustain our social market economy if we adapt. the third key message in the annual growth survey is to frontload and speed up measures that are growth-enhancing. our europe 2020 programme is central to this. we must focus on measures that have clear economic benefits in the short to medium term and which lend themselves to relatively fast adoption. that means investing in areas that derive growth, unleashing the full potential of our single market, increasing investment in energy, transport and it infrastructure – in part through innovative financing, including, we believe, the european union project bonds – and continuing to press for a conclusion of the doha round, while pushing forward free trade agreements with key partners. all of this needs to be reflected in the next multiannual financial framework proposal. europe’s next budget must be a growth-enhancing budget. ladies and gentlemen, our economies are starting to move in the right direction. the recovery has taken hold and is currently progressing in the real economy. this year we should see gdp growth at around 1.5%, rising to 2% of gdp in 2012. europe’s manufacturing sector has improved markedly in recent months. we should also see a steady improvement in employment prospects and we are starting to see public deficits decline, thanks primarily to the consolidation measures already taken, supported in some cases by a resumption of growth. in the european union the government deficit is expected to decline from 6.8% this year to 4.2% of gdp in 2012 on average. but to breathe a sigh of relief and slip back into bad habits would be a grave error. the world has changed. we cannot return to the old ways of doing things. if we do not act now, in the face of the biggest crisis since the beginning of european integration, when will member states be ready to take real steps for economic policies that are consistent with the goals they have themselves set? if it is not us at european level who will encourage them to take those decisions, who will do it? only by sorting out our debt and stabilising finances can we move from crisis management to fostering growth – not any kind of growth of course, but sustainable, inclusive growth. that means structural reforms, many of which we have been advocating for several years – reforms that challenge all structures but do so to reduce prices and increase opportunities for new jobs and innovative ways of doing things. i really believe we have a responsibility towards our citizens to choose the path of growth with jobs. the annual growth survey points the way. so let us now commit seriously to proper economic policy coordination and real common european economic governance for all our citizens. thank you for your attention. [applause]
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the council, mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, the last european council has shown that the euro is an essential pillar of the european construction. everything must be done to stabilize and strengthen it. our heads of state and government have since confirmed their deep commitment to the european currency and estonia's accession to the euro area earlier this year is another signal in this direction and also a very good example of how to meet the criteria for the large countries that do not meet them. that said, no one is unaware of the serious economic and social situation facing europe within the euro area. everything must be done in 2011 to overcome these problems, to reassure the markets, not superficially but structurally, that is to say by creating the conditions for growth and employment in the long term. i think we speak the same language on this. this means first of all that the national public finances must be cleaned up. push this case hard, don't let it go! this means that the member states must bring their budgetary policies closer together, as well as their fiscal and social policies. it also means that we must agree quickly on the euro area aid fund and that it only makes sense if it is accompanied by strict application of the rules of budgetary discipline. our fellow citizens must know that the countries they help in difficult circumstances are very strict in their management of public accounts, otherwise they will no longer accept to go to the cashier, if i may put it that way. finally, it was stressed that the conditions for growth and employment must be created. this also means completing the european internal market, investing more in research and innovation and in lifelong learning. my group wants the community approach to be favoured over the intergovernmental approach in all these areas of action, simply because it is much more effective and much more sustainable. mr president-in-office of the council, i ask you to ensure that the reform of the treaty, which was confirmed by the last european council, is completed as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. the budget debate is just beginning. my group will continue to call for a return to flat european public finances in the years ahead, with the aim of once again creating the conditions for growth and employment in europe. my dear president of the commission, let us put it all together, let us not be afraid and, as i have said on several occasions, let us take one, two or three budgetary examples: for example, with 1%, 2% or 5%, what can we do to get europe out of the situation in which we find ourselves? we will not achieve this by reducing resources. if we want to create jobs, we need more european resources, which does not mean that the states have to spend more money. let us not be afraid, mr van rompuy and mr barroso, make these proposals and we, the heads of state and government and parliament, will have to find the right solution, but at least let us have several examples on the table.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two comments on the conclusions of the council meeting last december. the first is to recall that the crisis has a very unique impact on the european union for a simple reason: we have been a community of law from the beginning and, in a community of law, the rule is particularly important. it is not a question of questioning the rule, but when we are faced with a crisis of this gravity, as the annual growth survey which you have just published reminds us, mr president, the time is for action, not for legalism. you say that this revision of the treaties was necessary to reassure the markets. firstly, if i may be so bold, it seems to me that after the european council meeting in october the markets were not particularly reassured. so be careful when you're planning to reassure the markets. but more importantly, what would happen if this review failed? i come from a country that has experienced the trauma of a negative referendum and the absence of a plan b. you were already here, mr barroso. we must sometimes think about what happens when we say to the markets: 'the treaties must be changed, everything must be done by that date' and then we hope that it will happen. so, obviously, you go with the easy way out, hoping it'll go away. but if it passes, you may reassure the markets, but certainly not the people. and that's my second point: much ado about nothing. you're changing treaties for a point of law. you don't change them to give the citizens the answers they want. we are six rapporteurs here, working on the economic governance package that the commission has produced under the constant treaties. we agreed to work on constant treaties, but along the way we were told: "we're going to change the treaties". it sounds like we are telling people that we can change the treaties, that we can go this far in the legal burden, but that we are not doing it in the end to make strategy 2020 something serious, or to give them jobs and growth. so, in addition, the european council in december asked us to speed up the work. all right, let's pick up the pace! i would like the council, mr van rompuy, to speed up. parliament has already tabled its reports. there is a very simple way to go faster, and that is to get closer to our positions and to stop seeing codecision as a procedure where the council decides and parliament adapts.
mr president, mr president of the european council, you have agreed to preside over a group of so-called wise men. it was made up of finance ministers who were under threat of a downgrade of their sovereign debt rating. could they have been a group of wise men? the cacophony in the debate today between mr jean-claude trichet, president barroso and chancellor merkel, as well as the turmoil in the markets, tells us that this group has not been a group of wise men. you were asked to manage the euro crisis. we need to manage the euro in the service of european citizens and not speculators. to do this, you have accepted a revision of the treaty's adequacy, even though our conference of presidents had said that such a revision was not necessary - remarks confirmed by the president of the eurogroup. but you, mr president, are risking inviting us onto a path which could lead us down the road of 'too little, too late'. the day will come when you will need the wisdom of this parliament, a convention to revise the treaty, so that tomorrow we can have tax harmonization, a european treasury, borrowing to manage debts mutually and putting employment back at the heart of our economic policies. if you do not want the treaty to be revised, take the bull by the horns and set up enhanced cooperation for the euro area, to manage the problems and responsibilities of the euro area member countries, rather than letting it float to the market.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, i should like to make two points. the first concerns the scope of the permanent crisis management mechanism. the non-euro area member states are in fact divided into two categories: the united kingdom and sweden, which are not obliged to adopt the euro, and the other member states, which together with the member states make up 25 member states. i suggest that these states, which are linked to the euro, should be given special treatment in the mechanism, which is not currently the case. i would then like to draw your attention to the national parliaments. in the simplified procedure, national parliaments are not involved, except in the ratification procedures. i propose that national parliaments be included, on a voluntary basis, in the consultation procedure, because the question is who will be in charge of political control of the future mechanism. will it be the european parliament or the national parliaments? but since there is no parliamentary dimension to the euro zone, we do not know how we will ensure political control of this mechanism. that's a question i'm putting to you.
president of the commission. − mr president, the start of 2011 is an historic moment for hungary as it takes over the helm of the council of the european union for the first time, but it is also a critical moment for the european union as a whole. the hungarian presidency comes at a time that demands a special sense of responsibility regarding the tasks ahead for europe. it is particularly appropriate that the hungarian presidency has chosen as its motto ‘strong europe’. europe is at its strongest and most effective when we are united, when we act in a coordinated manner with strong institutions, when we show a common resolve to steer a course through these stormy waters, and when we show that, by working together, we are capable of finding solutions to the most pressing problems. this is important to remember because we are not out of the woods yet. there can be no backtracking and no return to business as usual. we must implement our reforms without delay and develop the innovative policies needed to make the europe 2020 vision a reality. so i look forward to working in partnership with prime minister orbán and with the hungarian presidency to make sure that it is a successful one. let me tell prime minister orbán here and now that he can count on the commission’s full support on this. at the same time, the commission hopes very much that it can count on the support of the hungarian presidency. a fruitful partnership is particularly important in the areas of financial services, economic governance, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, energy and the internal market. so i am pleased that the presidency’s priorities fully reflect this. a strong partnership with the european parliament is also essential, as in some cases fast-tracking of proposals will be important. for example, we must have the new tools for reinforced economic governance at our disposal as soon as possible. a clear target has been set by the european council to deliver by june 2011. the rhythm of work already set by the hungarian presidency and the comments we have just heard from the prime minister are encouraging in this respect. as we start this new presidency, a comprehensive eu agenda and appropriate governance tools are already in place. the european semester, europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives and the single market act – all these key initiatives have been discussed and endorsed by the eu institutions. but of course we need to do more and it is now also time to act decisively to implement a comprehensive programme. the european semester is at the heart of the reformed economic strategy of the european union. its proper implementation will be a major task in the months ahead. the commission kick-started the semester by adopting the annual growth survey last week. following discussions in several council formations, the process will culminate at the european council in march, which will provide essential policy guidance for member states, to be reflected in their stability and convergence programmes as well as their national reform programmes, both of which we are expecting in april. since we have already discussed this in the previous debate, i will not go into detail, but of course the priorities are macro-economic stability, namely fiscal consolidation, structural reform and, of course, frontloaded economic growth, employment being of course our most important concern. final agreement on the european crisis management resolution mechanism will also be a key deliverable during the hungarian presidency. the hungarian presidency will also have an important role to play in shepherding through our efforts to relaunch the single market. following the public consultation launched by the commission on the single market act, the eu institutions will be asked to agree on a definitive action plan to be realised by the end of 2012. energy will also be an important area in the coming months and already at the european council meeting on 4 february. the commission already has a series of important energy initiatives on the table which will feed into the february european council. these include the energy agenda 2020, our communication on energy infrastructure priorities. we will soon be adopting a ‘resource-efficient europe’ flagship initiative in which energy also features strongly. the commission intends to develop its work around the following five axes: a strong energy policy as a key to competitive and sustainable growth and energy security; the internal market in energy as an asset; building the european union’s new energy infrastructure; making decisive progress on energy efficiency; and developing an effective and united new approach to external energy policy. support from the presidency and the european parliament will also be essential to ensure an agreement on the european union patent. as requested by several member states, the commission adopted a proposal for enhanced cooperation in this field on 14 december. the commission appreciates hungary’s commitment to taking forward work on the eu patent under its presidency. negotiations with croatia are now in the final phase. conclusion of negotiations under the hungarian presidency is an ambitious goal, especially considering the remaining requirements croatia still needs to fulfil. this will require an all-out push on croatia’s side. i welcome the fact that the hungarian presidency considers the social and economic integration of roma as one of its priorities. the commission set up a roma taskforce to analyse the use and effectiveness of eu and national funds in all member states for roma inclusion. building on this work, the commission will present a european union framework for national roma integration strategies in april. the new presidency will also put the spotlight on our danube strategy. the danube region has great potential that has not yet been properly exploited due to ineffective cooperation. the aim is to develop a more coordinated approach to bring european added value to this region. the commission welcomes the presidency’s commitment to this strategy. hungary has already contributed significantly to its preparation, including producing policy papers and hosting a conference in budapest which i had the pleasure of attending. it will be in charge of guiding it through the council and launching the danube strategy implementation. finally, the debate on cohesion policy will intensify in the coming months. the commission welcomes the intention of the presidency to discuss the proposals set out in the fifth cohesion report. we will present legislative proposals for future cohesion policy this summer, following proposals on the next financial framework. the fifth cohesion forum, to take place at the end of january in brussels, will allow for a major stakeholder discussion. it is encouraging that prime minister orbán himself will participate. effectiveness and european added value must be the driving principles of the reform. the commission is convinced that cohesion policy needs to underpin more strongly the policy priorities and reform agenda of europe 2020. i count on the support of the presidency in this work. it is our common interest and responsibility to make funding more effective. only in this way can we defend an ambitious budget for cohesion policy. since i know this is a matter of political concern, let me add a final comment on hungary’s media law. the principle of freedom of the press is a sacred one in the european union. i stated this in brussels and in budapest when i had the honour to be received there by prime minister orbán. the commission has looked at the law and this week will write to the hungarian authorities to seek clarification on certain aspects that could create legal problems and that have raised some concerns. on the basis of the hungarian authorities’ answers, we will assess the situation further. the prime minister has already made it quite clear that adjustments will be made should the commission decide after this legal assessment that changes need to be made. prime minister orbán has just said he is a politician. i am sure that he is a very committed politician and i think you can agree that, leaving aside the legal issues – which will be dealt with in an objective and impartial manner because we will treat hungary exactly like any other member state – we must also concern ourselves with the political aspects. hungary, like any member state taking on the rotating presidency, needs to have the full backing of all the other member states and the european institutions to make the presidency a success. i hope that prime minister orbán will take this into consideration. i have no doubt that this presidency must be a success, coming at such a critical time for the european union. let us allow the proper procedures to take their course and at the same time let us give our full support to hungary as it takes on this heavy responsibility. during my recent visit to hungary i received messages from young people who said that they were proud that their country for the first time had the responsibility of leading the council of the european union. let us make hungary closer to europe and europe closer to hungary. there is a lot to do. the hungarian presidency can count on every assistance from the european commission in pushing forward its priorities. it is only by achieving these goals together that we will build a strong europe, a europe which delivers growth and jobs, which preserves and reaffirms our values – namely the sacred values of freedom and justice – and which positions our societies to thrive in a changing world. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr viktor orbán, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council of ministers has rarely had to face so many challenges: the challenge of the euro, which we must stabilise; the challenge of employment, which requires stronger growth and therefore a more efficient economy; the challenge of energy independence and food security, while the prices of raw materials are rising alarmingly. i have no doubt that the hungarian presidency will be able to meet these challenges, together with the commission, the council and parliament. mr president-in-office, you have won the confidence of your constituents in hungary. your party, fidesz, is based on an idea, an ideal, a value: freedom and democracy. since your election, you have undertaken, together with the hungarian parliament, a whole series of reforms which your people have called for by giving you a large majority in a democratic way. one of these reforms - the one concerning the media - is currently under legal scrutiny by the european commission, the guardian of the treaties. you yourself said last week - and i thank you for that - in your talks with president barroso and since then that if this law were incompatible with european law, you would submit the necessary changes to your parliament. i have full confidence in your word. i, for my part, trust - as you do - the european commission in its role as guardian of the treaties and i also trust you to respect the letter and spirit of the european rules. viktor orbán, we have known each other for a long time, i consider you a very great european! i have no reason to doubt that you will do what you have said about the media law and the other priorities of your presidency. i now turn to those priorities, starting with the first: the stability of europe. it is perhaps a good thing that the two successive council presidencies in 2011 will be held by countries that do not belong to the euro zone but are keen to join it very soon. both hungary and poland are expected to join. they therefore have an interest in ensuring the stability of this currency. i repeat once again that the only effective way of putting an end to the speculative attacks on the euro and of strengthening the foundations of the european economy is to put our public finances in order. this requires greater coordination of the budgetary, fiscal and social policies of our countries, as the new european semester exercise has just foreseen. it also means greater flexibility in our labour market and greater productivity. like the hungarian presidency of the council, the epp group firmly believes that the future of the 500 million europeans depends on a stronger, more united and more cohesive europe. it goes through more europe and certainly not less europe. mr president-in-office of the council, we need european economic governance. we need more community and i know you will work towards that. mr president-in-office of the council, you have identified the establishment of a common energy policy as one of your major priorities. i think you're right. jerzy buzek, our president, has also made this one of the highlights of his presidency. i agree with you on this point, but i also want to warn you of the very worrying consequences of the very significant rise in the prices of all kinds of raw materials in recent months. we have already seen in several mediterranean countries the social implications of such a rise in the price of basic foodstuffs, especially for the poorest countries. i hope that europe will take this problem seriously and attack the speculators. i also hope that the hungarian presidency will say: 'i thought the greens would be silent, but i hear them talking, it is not normal! the commission is supporting tunisia in its efforts to help it, which is in a critical period and which needs support in its journey towards change. mr president-in-office of the council, you know that to succeed in your mandate and to help europe through the present difficult phase, you need the confidence of the european parliament. and in december, when we were in a difficult situation at council level, you had the courage to sign the famous letters which helped parliament to vote its budget. thank you for what you did in december! you already before january involved the political groups in defining your priorities and of course you chose enikö győri, a former and excellent colleague, as minister for european affairs. these are all positive signs, which - i have no doubt - will be accompanied by a perfect match between the reforms you are undertaking and the european values that we all stand for here.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all, let me make one thing clear. the greens, and i personally, love hungary. i cried in 1954 when hungary lost the world cup. my first protest, holding my brother's hand, was in 1956 against the soviet invasion of budapest. as guy verhofstadt said, many intellectuals, many hungarian writers have accompanied us politically, intellectually, for years. i was on the side of viktor orbán when he fought against the communists in the late 1980s and early '90s. i was on the side of viktor orbán when he asked the european liberals to expel haider from the european liberal party. there was a viktor orbán who, to me, was a politician who should be respected. today, mr orbán, you are on the way to becoming a european chavez, a national populist who does not understand the essence and structure of democracy. i will tell you something very simple, mr orbán: there is no such thing as balanced information. do you think mr. nixon found the watergate information balanced? of course not! do you think mr. bush found the abu ghraib information balanced? of course not! do you know one of the big political issues - the dreyfus affair in france - that the government thought the information was balanced on? the research, for example, on the life, politics of mr berlusconi, do you think he finds this information balanced? of course not! the information must disturb the policy. and it bothers us and it hurts sometimes. and that is why, mr orbán, your law today is not a law that corresponds to the values of the european union. you say, mr orbán, that you want a strong europe. a strong europe, mr orbán, must be a europe that is credible. if we accept such a law in europe, how will we discuss it with mr lukashenko? how are we going to talk to china? they all want balanced information. mr orbán, do you understand that europe was born against totalitarianism? and that the basis of democracy, the basis of freedom, is precisely freedom of speech. no democracy ever died because there were too many freedoms. democracies died when we were restricting freedoms, mr orbán. you knew it 20 years ago, you go back to your old thoughts and it rhymes with more. so you see, that's just what i'm saying. i want to end on one thing, mr orbán. if you want to fight for christians in the world, we are with you, but i would have dreamed and i have dreamed that today, you would be hailing the jasmine revolution in tunisia, which is the same revolution that you experienced, mr orbán: liberation from a dictatorship. you haven't found a word for the tunisians, well that's what i blame you for. for christians around the world, we are with you. i hope you will join us in fighting against dictatorships around the world, whether in belarus, whether in tunisia, whether in algeria, whether in egypt, whether in china, whether in russia, wherever. these are the common values of europe that we must defend together. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the peoples of europe are experiencing a serious and destabilising crisis. i think that it is precisely at such moments that we must return to the fundamental values that make up europe. the first of these values is the fight against all nationalism. let me say that i am very concerned when, after having offered hungarian citizenship to the hungarian population, you now talk about the possibility of giving them the right to vote, in violation of all international conventions. the second of these european values is the defence of democracy and freedom. since you took office, however, a number of measures have been taken which are of concern to us and which you will perhaps be able to answer. the powers of the constitutional court have been limited, the independence of the central bank is being called into question, which is in contradiction with the accession treaty, and you are passing a law on the media which, under the pretext of transposing a european directive, is in fact a law that is a freedom-threatening law for the press, as the osce has recently demonstrated. you say that your law is similar to that of other member states, but even if some - and i am thinking in particular of my own country - clearly still have some progress to make, in which other country in the union is a media outlet at risk of a fine of eur 700 000 for breach of morality? the matter is now in the hands of the european commission, which will have to tell us on the merits, and beyond the mere legal questions, whether this law infringes freedom of expression. if that were the case, the union has instruments to enforce fundamental rights. that is the message of firmness we are waiting for.
madam president, mr prime minister, hungary is a european country, and it loves the european parliament. hungary has elected one of our old, excellent colleagues, mr pál schmitt, as president of the republic, and you have been wise in choosing one of your ministers, one of our old, excellent colleagues, mrs győri, whom i salute. democracy works. you've been elected. that's good. europe is working. you're challenged by a law, you say, "i'll change it". you are being challenged on the application of values, you have said that in the reform of the constitution, which is the old communist constitution, you would take up the charter of fundamental rights in extenso. that's good. politics is working. if anyone doubts that, we are in political europe. that's good news! economically, you're facing the stakes. you are restoring the hungarian economy, mr. prime minister. you're probably the president we need right now. but this isn't the first time you've done this. you did this in 1998 when you were also prime minister. i would like to end by drawing your attention to croatia. you want the membership. we are in favour of this. i would like to draw your attention to the reluctance of certain european public opinion and i suggest that you launch a major communication campaign to prove to the european citizens that croatia meets all the criteria for membership, because we are no longer in the logic of accession as a bloc as we were after the fall of the berlin wall.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are times in history - i can say it in all languages - when we must not go beyond a certain limit. mr orbán, you are proud of the hungarian people and you are right but democracy says one thing, from tocqueville to all theoreticians of democracy: "the truth is not always on the side of the majority".
you gonna shut your mouths up there, yes or no? when he claims here ... mr orbán , please . (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) you're mobilizing the far right? you're right, i know. when he claims here that we have said something against the hungarian people, it is national-populism, that is, not wanting to discuss a content and to make a confrontation between one and the other. this is unworthy of the european union, mr orbán. you invited us to dine with you. it's taken away my appetite, i won't eat with you. that's an undignified thing to do!
in writing. mr president, you will be taking over the presidency of the council for six months and you will face many challenges. you're putting the crisis solution at the top of your list of priorities. i am confident that the institutions and the member states will continue to work in good faith under your presidency. it is our duty to maintain the mechanisms of solidarity and stabilization which have already proved their worth. to achieve our aims, we must also focus on reforming the international financial system. we europeans have been pioneers in the regulation and supervision of financial markets. the french presidency of the g20 is an opportunity to seize. a united europe must set an example for its foreign partners. the european neighbourhood policy is an essential tool of the union's foreign policy. it helps us to have stable relationships with our closest neighbors. the promotion of the eastern partnership, which is one of your priorities, must not be achieved at the expense of the mediterranean partnership. the union for the mediterranean is losing momentum and deserves our attention as well. europe remains very attached to it. what are you planning to do to get it back up?
in writing. the hungarian presidency comes at a crucial moment for europe, at a time when some member states are still facing a serious economic and social crisis. the stability of the euro must be one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency and i have no doubt that the council will do all it can to combat currency speculation and will make substantial progress on european economic governance. secondly, i expect the hungarian presidency to do everything in its power to define, in collaboration with the other european institutions, a genuine european strategy for the integration of the roma. the implementation of such a strategy is of particular importance to me and i hope that the hungarian presidency will take up this matter. finally, i would like to express my solidarity with the hungarian government in the face of the controversy which has accompanied the first days of the hungarian presidency, particularly on the media law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i call on everyone to take responsibility for putting an end to this pointless controversy.
madam president, i also wanted to vote on the report by my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, on the directive on access to crossborder health care. i am delighted with the progress made by this text on patient mobility in europe. after many years of uncertainty, including legal uncertainty, and a great deal of work by the european parliament, this text simplifies, clarifies and codifies the conditions under which european citizens can receive care in a european state other than their state of residence, both in terms of access and reimbursement. i am thinking in particular of all the patients with rare diseases who will finally have access to specific treatments appropriate to their situation. i would like to stress that this directive is a concrete european achievement which is in the direction of a people's europe, which grants new rights to european citizens and, in this sense, it is a decisive and essential step for the mobility of citizens within the union.
in writing. more and more people are seeking medical treatment in another european country than their own, but often in complete uncertainty about their rights in this area; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health system is not undermined by the fact that the health system is not in a position to provide the necessary health care. at this first plenary session of 2011, we adopted a directive clarifying the rights of european patients who choose to seek treatment abroad. the text, which was adopted by a large majority, provides that patients will be able to be reimbursed for care received in another member state. this is good news for all patients who are on long waiting lists and who are having difficulty getting treatment in their own state. encouraging mobility to improve the treatment of european patients is our aim! cooperation on rare diseases will also be strengthened to improve the treatment of patients requiring highly specialised care.
in writing. it is a strong signal that we are sending to our fellow citizens by proposing a system where the needs of patients will be given priority. the european parliament remained united and firm on this real recognition of the needs of patients in europe, which represents a first step towards strengthening their rights to access safe and good quality healthcare in europe. the new rules specify that eu citizens will be able to be reimbursed for care received in another member state, to the extent that the type of treatment and the costs would normally have been covered in their own country. the authorities may require patients to seek prior authorisation for treatments requiring overnight hospital stays or specialised health care and any refusal must be clearly justified. the use of foreign care could particularly benefit patients on long waiting lists or those unable to find specialist care. we must now ensure that the implementation of this directive is well controlled and that it delivers concrete results in health care for patients in europe.
in writing. as the only region in france with a border with 3 other eu states and representing a constituency particularly concerned with crossborder issues, i am very sensitive to these issues. the european union is a major player in the world of international trade and the world of international trade. europe is founded on the principle of free movement of persons; the freedom and mobility of citizens must also be that of patients. the question of crossborder healthcare is thus obviously a key issue. that is why i voted strongly in favour of this report on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare. this text will make it easier for patients to seek treatment in another state and, above all, it clarifies the rules that will apply; patients will be able to obtain more information (including through contact points) on their rights and reimbursement. it is thus a decisive step, a very concrete step, which will bring real added value to the construction of a social europe and a genuine europe of health.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which ultimately avoids making health a commodity like any other. i would also like to thank the spanish presidency for its support for the restoration of the system of prior authorization for crossborder and specialised care. while the european union promotes the mobility of its citizens and has a duty to legislate on health services, care must be taken to ensure that health remains a public good accessible to all under the best conditions, and not a source of growth that competes with national health and social security systems.
in writing. how can we guarantee the fundamental freedom of movement of all european citizens within our common space without offering them the possibility of easily obtaining medical treatment in a member state other than their own? the adoption of this proposal for a directive will finally make it possible to incorporate into a legal text this intrinsic element of citizens' mobility: the mobility of patients! i would like to congratulate our rapporteur on reaching agreement with the council on this important text, the adoption of which has been blocked for far too long. i very much hope that the transposition of this legislation by our member states will eventually allow european citizens real access to quality crossborder care.
in writing. the directive on crossborder care which will be put to the vote today is a revolution, and i welcome it. the european union's competence in health is a very sensitive subject, and it is normal for each state, depending on its culture, to establish its own system of social protection and health insurance. however, why build europe and guarantee freedom of movement if it is not accompanied by the opportunity to access care throughout the european union. for three years parliament has been fighting to bring legal certainty to crossborder care and to clarify the reimbursement arrangements. a major milestone is about to be reached and i thank my colleague, mrs françoise grossete, for the work she has done. we are living in an important moment: the europe of health is being built, crossborder care will no longer be a risk but an opportunity. let us put this into practice so that every european citizen can benefit from quality care. health is at that price.
in writing. patients also have the right to freedom of movement! that is why i voted in favour of the report on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare. in alsace and in all border regions, the issue of crossborder healthcare is crucial, for example when care is provided closer to home abroad than in the member state. this report will enable all european citizens to obtain information on crossborder care and their rights through the national contact points that will be set up in each member state. the adoption of this text marks the starting point of a genuine europe of health which will benefit 500 million citizens.
in writing. on 19 january, the european parliament adopted european legislation on the rights of patients in crossborder healthcare. i can only support access to care for all eu citizens regardless of the state they are in. but that is not the main objective of this text, which is aimed primarily at strengthening the internal market before promoting universal access to care. the text provides that the use of care abroad could in particular benefit patients on long waiting lists or those unable to find specialist care. the first right of patients is to receive prompt and adequate treatment, without barriers, wherever they are. it is not decent to present as a right the obligation for a sick person to travel and to finance a trip abroad in order to receive proper medical treatment. instead of supporting public health systems to ensure equal access to quality care, patients are being asked to choose their care across europe like any product in free circulation in the european union. i cannot support such a view of health.
in writing. according to the united nations, 20 to 40% of the world's timber production is from illegal logging. in addition, deforestation is increasing by 13 million hectares each year and is estimated to account for 20% of global co2 emissions. the voluntary partnership agreements which parliament has just adopted will help to combat the trade in illegally harvested timber by improving the traceability of timber harvested in congo-brazzaville and cameroon through independent verification procedures and good forest governance policies. more broadly, these agreements recall the responsibilities of the european union in the negotiation of trade agreements. the european commission must pursue a consistent trade policy and ensure that trade agreements do not lead to massive deforestation to meet the requirements of liberalising trade in timber or agrofuels. the european parliament therefore insists on having a regular report from the european commission on the implementation of these agreements.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. this is primarily due to the productivist logic of present-day globalisation and is therefore perfectly legal. the establishment of bilateral voluntary partnership agreements against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanctioning mechanism for all environmental crimes. these agreements, which are still very approximate, deserve to be encouraged and, above all, improved.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. this is primarily due to the productivist logic of present-day globalisation and is therefore perfectly legal. the establishment of the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanction mechanism for all environmental crimes. the independence of export authorization decisions and verification should be guaranteed by public services and the promotion of timber trade as well as the development of forest industries should be limited to what is environmentally tolerable. the absence of such measures is particularly regrettable. the commission has also expressed serious reservations about the reliability of the planned control system, given the failure of the cameroonian authorities.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. this is primarily due to the productivist logic of present-day globalisation and is therefore perfectly legal. the establishment of the eu-congo voluntary partnership agreement against illegal logging is a very partial step towards the necessary establishment of a sanction mechanism for all environmental crimes. the independence of export authorisation decisions and verification should be guaranteed by public services and support should be provided to combat illegal logging. the absence of such measures is particularly regrettable.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of several agreements against illegal timber trade between the european union and the congo and the european union and cameroon. these international agreements aim to ensure the traceability of timber exported to the eu, in order to combat deforestation and preserve biodiversity, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples. the rapporteur, yannick jadot, of the greens/efa group, incorporated a number of amendments tabled by the european united left/nordic green left (gue/ngl). it is now up to the commission to implement these reports and to ensure that the commission takes the opinions of the european parliament into account. these reports can nevertheless be a point of reference for all those who are struggling for other relations with the countries of the south and in particular with the countries of black africa.
in writing. the resolution explains parliament's doubts about the interim economic partnership agreement. it recalls the objectives of the agreement (development, strengthening of eu/pacific trade links) and stresses the problems raised by the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products. however, in accordance with my refusal to accept the agreement, i voted against the resolution which does not seem to me to be sufficiently reminding of the problems posed by the derogation from the rules of origin on processed fishery products, particularly tuna. i look forward to the european commission providing us with the impact study foreseen by the agreement, which analyses the consequences of this agreement on employment in the eu and also in the pacific, as well as on the european fisheries and processing sector. it is impossible to verify the origin of the processed tuna entering the european market. i will follow the negotiations on the eu-pacific partnership agreement and ensure that the agreement does not contain the exception to the rules of origin for processed fishery products from papua new guinea.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's decision to approve the interim agreement between the european community and the pacific states. this agreement reflects the european union's commitment to this region of the world, and thus sends a strong political signal to the states of the region. i'm glad you did! the political resolution accompanying this decision of approval serves as a reminder of our demands. we want to establish a balanced and fair relationship with the pacific states, allowing the development of these island states while safeguarding the interests of our citizens. while the interim agreement contains specific provisions on the rules of origin for fishery products, it was important to provide a framework for this derogation. in order for this derogation, which should create jobs and wealth, to really benefit local people and not harm european fish processing and preserving industries, it was crucial to provide for an assessment of its effects as soon as possible and to allow its suspension if necessary. there are guarantees that the agreement is fair and that measures will be taken if necessary to protect our interests.
in writing. the resolution explains parliament's doubts about the interim economic partnership agreement. it recalls the objectives of the agreement (development, strengthening of eu/pacific trade links) and stresses the problems raised by the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and why i supported the amendments tabled by the greens, which are in line with our concerns. i look forward to the commission's report on the impact assessment of the agreement and will be attentive to the negotiations on the final partnership agreement.
in writing. it is an agreement that allows preferential conditions of access to the european market for products from the pacific region. i am in favour of the development of this region but i consider that the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products is unacceptable. this derogation creates a situation of unfair competition for european canning and does not really benefit the local population. in addition, tuna imports from papua new guinea have doubled over the last two years and there is reason to fear that this trend will continue in the future. as vice-chairman of the committee on fisheries, i decided to oppose this agreement because it ignores the opinion adopted by the committee on fisheries, which proposed to abolish the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products following the negotiations on the interim partnership agreement.
in writing. the europe-pacific agreement grants papua new guinea a general derogation from the rules of origin for fishery products, in particular tuna. this clause allows products from that country to be considered as papuan, and therefore exempt from any customs or quota duty, even if neither fishermen, nor fishing areas, nor factories producing canned products are exempt. the only ones who benefit are the chinese, australian, thai and other fishing fleets that land their catch in the ports of papua. these are the canning factories of these same countries, which are located in papua but employ foreign nationals under questionable conditions. and it is of course the european and especially the french sector which is suffering the most from this unfair and illegitimate competition. in the european union, tuna imports from papua increased by 76% between 2008 and 2009; in france alone, they increased by 1500% over the same period. the economic and social consequences of this derogation are well known and the fears about the fish stocks in the region are well founded. that is why i voted against this agreement.
in writing. the interim partnership agreement signed between the eu and papua new guinea and fiji is the result of undue pressure. the agreement provides for the gradual abolition of customs duties on a scale which would be intolerable for these states, the prohibition of all quantitative restrictions on exports or imports and the elimination of all subsidies on the export of agricultural products to pacific countries for papua new guinea and the fiji islands. it includes a meeting clause for the 'successful conclusion of the negotiations currently under way on a full epa'. these agreements are further proof of the european union's neo-colonialism. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's decision to approve the interim agreement between the european community and the pacific states. this agreement reflects the european union's commitment to this region of the world, and thus sends a strong political signal to the states of the region. i'm glad you did! the political resolution accompanying this decision of approval serves as a reminder of our demands. we want to establish a balanced and fair relationship with the pacific states, allowing the development of these island states while safeguarding the interests of our citizens. while the interim agreement contains specific provisions on the rules of origin for fishery products, it was important to provide a framework for this derogation. in order for this derogation, which should create jobs and wealth, to really benefit local people and not harm european fish processing and preserving industries, it was crucial to provide for an assessment of its effects as soon as possible and to allow its suspension if necessary. there are guarantees that the deal is fair, and that steps will be taken where necessary to protect our interests.
in writing. the ec-pacific interim economic partnership agreement gives preferential access to the european market for products from the pacific region. i am in favour of the development of this region but i do not think that the derogation from the rules of origin for processed fishery products is acceptable, because it allows the exemption from customs duties of products manufactured in the territory from raw materials not originating in that territory. this derogation is an incentive to fish in the tropical zone without concern for the management of fishery resources: since the trade preference does not only concern the fishing areas of papua new guinea, it is difficult to control the origin of the catches, which is contrary to the commitments made by the european union to stop illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i am also concerned about the traceability of products that will be imported into europe from this area. i have voted against this clause, which i believe should not be included in any future trade agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution which makes it possible to defend the right of parents to adopt a child from another member state, but also to ensure the protection of these minors at the time of their adoption and after they have been adopted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. the number of abandoned children has been increasing in recent years and this phenomenon is observed in all our states. victims of conflict, social exclusion, exploitation by criminal networks and trafficking in all kinds of goods, these children are victims of a failed international adoption mechanism. it is also worth noting that the majority of these children are young girls, who are vulnerable to prostitution rings and other forms of modern-day slavery. one of the answers we can give to this sad reality is to facilitate international adoption procedures. we must give international adoption a real right. this right to be adopted must be guaranteed to all children. although the member states still have jurisdiction in this area today, it must be remembered that the protection of the best interests of the child is a fundamental principle of the european union enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. in the absence of european legislation in this area, the european union must therefore do everything in its power to promote such adoptions, in particular by allowing mutual recognition of civil status documents and adoption decisions in the coming months.
in writing. i did not vote for this resolution on serbia's european integration process. not because of the process itself but because of the ambiguity of the text on the kosovo problem. the joint resolution between the european union and serbia, adopted by the un general assembly, is mentioned, but at no point is it stated that it cannot be considered as an official recognition of kosovo's independence by serbia, or by the eu member states which have not done so. nor is there any mention of the very worrying report of the council of europe on the trafficking of organs from serbian prisoners by the kla, which implicates the current kosovo prime minister, while the bringing of the last two serbian fugitives before the international criminal court is a prerequisite for serbia's accession to europe. as in the various wars that marked the break-up of the former yugoslavia, the evil is considered to be on one side only, repentance is required on one side only. in the long run, this becomes painful, even if the serbian government, blinded by the mirror to the european union's alouettes, seems to be bending to it in the hope of joining it.
in writing. i am voting against this text out of solidarity with the serbian citizens. add to the social bloodletting of the austerity plans imposed by the imf since january 2009 the obligation to meet the copenhagen economic criteria is a social crime which i refuse to subscribe to. the text also contains numerous infringements of the sovereign right of the serbian state to refuse to deal with the representatives of the separatist province of kosovo.
in writing. this eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, like all similar agreements, condemns the people to misery in the name of a rapid transition to a market economy and the establishment of a free trade area within the next five years. the european union is unworthy of the citizens of the countries that make up it and of those countries that want to join it. i am voting against this report in solidarity with the citizens of the republic of serbia.
in writing. nearly 10 million europeans suffer from mental disorders, including alzheimer's disease. european responses remain weak and the situation of patients, their families and carers is highly imbalanced across europe: at present, only seven eu countries have national strategies in place. the european parliament therefore urges the member states to develop specific programmes and strategies at national level to combat this disease and its effects. these strategies will need to address the social and health consequences, as well as the services and support needed for patients and their families. at the european union level too, efforts to promote early diagnosis and preventive health services and research must be a health priority. the establishment of a programme of public and private research, development and investment must therefore be encouraged at community level. the speed with which we can slow down the progression of alzheimer's disease, perhaps even eradicate it, will profoundly change the number of people who are addicted and help older people to enjoy their lives to the fullest for as long as possible.
in writing. in europe, it is estimated that nearly 10 million people suffer from dementia, the majority of whom have alzheimer's disease. this figure is expected to double almost every 20 years. one in four people over 65 could be affected by 2020. in france, there are 160,000 new cases a year. it can be said that all europeans will face, directly or indirectly, the problems of alzheimer's disease and other dementias at some point in their lives. i therefore fully supported this own-initiative report which calls on the european commission to make the fight against alzheimer's disease one of the priorities for european action in the field of health. it is essential that people with alzheimer's disease have access to appropriate care; and above all, more european cooperation is needed, both in research (within the next research framework programme), prevention, diagnosis (with common criteria and protocols, etc.) and treatment. we also call for the creation of a european year of mental health, complementary to the world alzheimer's day, which i hope will raise awareness of this issue.
in writing. as president of the european alliance to fight alzheimer's disease, i can only welcome the measures advocated by this european initiative to improve epidemiological knowledge of the disease and to coordinate ongoing research. joint research activities have been possible thanks to european support and i hope they will bear fruit. until then, it is essential to put prevention at the heart of any strategy and to direct efforts towards as early a diagnosis as possible as the report does. all member states must mobilise without further delay, including through prevention campaigns around an ambitious european plan to combat the disease. the behavioural or personality changes resulting from the disease also place the affected person in a situation of gradually increasing dependence on others. not only the sick suffer from the disease, but their families and carers also suffer. i would also like to pay tribute to alzheimer europe, which, in conjunction with the national associations for the fight against the disease, plays a vital role in helping patients and their families.
in writing. i have given my full support to this own-initiative report which aims to encourage the european commission to place alzheimer's disease at the top of the priorities for action in health. we must not only promote early diagnosis, develop ways of detecting the symptoms of this disease at an early stage, and focus research efforts on neurodegenerative diseases, but above all seek to improve the daily lives of patients and their families, because this aspect is still too often ignored by public policies. finally, special attention must also be paid to women, who are twice as likely as men to be affected by this difficult disease.
in writing. every 24 seconds, a new patient with a neurodegenerative disease is diagnosed in the eu. nearly one in 20 people over 65 and one in five over 80 suffer from it. alzheimer's disease is responsible for more than half of these cases. in total, this represents more than eight million europeans aged 30 to 99, a figure which scientists believe could double every 20 years in the future. the european union must take action to cope with the increase in the number of people suffering from these diseases in the coming decades. i supported the european parliament's resolution calling on the member states to take measures to help slow down the progression of the disease in people with the disease - for example, to promote healthy lifestyles, to ensure that medicines are available to all patients, to create specialised centres and to set up satisfactory medical facilities throughout their territory, and to develop a strategic action plan for research in this field.
in writing. the situation in haiti remains very worrying. the efforts of the many humanitarian workers - whose courageous commitment is to be commended - are being hampered by the inability of the government to mitigate the risks of civil war that threaten the island. we must demand full implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid (for concerted and coordinated action to improve the collective response to humanitarian crises) and recall that the commitments made at the international donors' conference on 31 march, in particular for the reconstruction of haiti, must be translated into action and not remain at the stage of mere declarations.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the compromise resolution between the political groups of the european parliament on haiti. because this resolution (although correct in substance) does not propose any lasting solution to enable haiti to get out of the crisis. nor does it ask enough questions about the actual payment of the aid promised by the european union. haitians need real development support, which must be prioritized through the international deployment of btp teams and adapted equipment to actively participate in the urgent reconstruction of public and private buildings in the country, starting with the poorest neighborhoods, cities and communities. the haitian people also need real medical support in order to contain the cholera epidemic as quickly as possible and to eradicate it in a second stage. many doctors, medicines and support structures must be deployed urgently.
in writing. for several months, the lithuanian parliament has been passing a series of laws to ban or punish any reference to homosexuality or bisexuality in public. a draft law currently under debate aims to amend the code of administrative offences to punish "public promotion of homosexual relations" with fines of up to €2,900. this legislation is in total violation of the charter of fundamental rights and the european treaties which commit the european union and its member states to defend freedom of expression, fundamental freedoms, and to provide european-wide instruments to combat discrimination and human rights violations. we are asking for the withdrawal of this law, the inclusion of respect for sexual orientation in the list of protected principles in its law on education, the right of minors to have free access to information on sexual orientation and the clarification of the prohibition in the law on advertising. it is not the first time that a member state, under the guise of the principle of non-interference, has impeded the rights and freedoms of european citizens in matters of sexual orientation and in fact encouraged discrimination. this homophobic misdirection must stop!
in writing. lithuania is trying to control proselytism in favour of certain sexual orientations of minorities, probably and rightly preferring to promote the family, consisting of a father, a mother and their children, the basic unit of any society. some see this as an intolerable violation of human rights and a clear discrimination. but as the epp resolution rightly points out, the legislative process in lithuania, which is far from complete, is being examined by the competent supervisory authorities in the light of lithuania's constitutional and international commitments. the text also appropriately recalls, and i quote, 'the right of every democracy to amend and adopt national laws and regulations without interference in the debates of national parliaments'. the very fact of debating and tabling texts here is an interference and a violation of the rights of lithuania and lithuanian citizens. this is intolerable. and because the subjects are linked, i take this opportunity, as a french citizen, to express my most solemn concern about the action brought before the french constitutional court, in the name of non-discrimination, against the articles of the civil code which naturally enshrine marriage as the union of a man and a woman.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's position that lithuania should reject a bill imposing fines for 'promoting homosexual relations in public places'. it should be recalled that homophobia has no place in europe and that the charter of fundamental rights, in its article 21, clearly prohibits any discrimination based on various grounds, including sexual orientation. the council still opposes the introduction of a horizontal anti-discrimination directive to ensure equal protection against all forms of discrimination. it is time to act to prevent such laws being tried everywhere in europe, which are far from the values we are defending here.
in writing. i would like to recall first of all that the fight against all forms of discrimination, in particular those based on sexual orientation, is a cardinal principle of the european union. we now have a substantial body of legislation at european level in this area, which makes it possible for this principle to be fully effective in all our member states. the fight against homophobia is a fight we must wage head-on in our own house and in our national parliaments. it is also necessary to emphasize that the text we are considering today is, at this stage, only a bill tabled by some lithuanian parliamentarians. in addition, this amendment, which seeks to sanction the public promotion of homosexual relations, has been openly criticised by the lithuanian president and her government. so we should not be quick to condemn any country or government. i therefore call on our lithuanian colleagues to ensure that our community legislation is strictly respected, in particular article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights, which prohibits discrimination of any kind.
in writing. equality of men and women is a principle with which europe too often compromises. we'd like to see her react wherever that equality is trampled on. the resolution rejects the institutionalisation of a law which disparages and even punishes the equality of lithuanians on the grounds of their sexual orientation. i salute her and give her my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the violation of freedom of expression and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in lithuania. interparliamentary dialogue (between the european parliament and national parliaments) has become a key component of the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. moreover, the european union is founded on inalienable values, including the fight against all forms of discrimination, which i will strive to defend throughout my mandate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the massacres of the copts in alexandria have caused international outrage. generally speaking, the situation of christians in the orient is a cause for concern. in iraq, lebanon, and even palestine, where christians are leaving what they call the holy land, exhausted by the humiliations caused by the israeli occupation. i welcome the fact that our resolution on religious freedom gives a broad definition and recalls the fundamental rights: the right to believe and not to believe, the right to choose one's religion without discrimination. while our text rightly mentions the recent attacks and murders around the world, we must also admit that in some european countries respect for this freedom of religion is being threatened. intolerance is often seen in the desecration of jewish and muslim cemeteries, and in islamophobic and anti-semitic remarks. the ban on minarets in switzerland, for example, or the rise of extremist parties with intolerant views of certain communities, show us that the fight for respect for secularism must be a priority in europe. refugees, asylum seekers, migrants and ethnic and religious minorities are facing a worrying increase in violations of universal fundamental rights. europe must be an example of tolerance and inter-community dialogue. while eastern christians are increasingly suspected of representing western interests and causes, muslims in europe are associated with radical islamism and terrorism. i would like to read two lines from the poet louis aragon: "he who believed in heaven, he who did not believe in it, and their red blood drips, same color, same brilliance".
mr president, freedom of conscience is certainly an essential freedom. god cannot want forced membership. this freedom was horribly persecuted by the communist regimes. it takes courage to say today that these violations are mainly committed against christians in islamic countries. we rightly condemn the horrendous attacks by fanatics, and we are right. but it's not just the extremists. in many muslim-majority lands, even those considered moderate, christians are treated as second-class citizens. conversion to christianity was banned and punishable by death. while mrs kiil-nielsen may not like it, no one in the west is prevented from embracing the muslim religion if they wish. in the same muslim countries, any criticism of islam, real or supposed, exposes its authors to the same fate. in particular, legislation aimed at curbing blasphemy must be repealed. we particularly call on pakistan to reverse the conviction of an unfortunate woman accused by her neighbours. in a word, we cannot be satisfied with good words. we must act and make it clear to these states that our relations with them depend on their respect for freedom of conscience.
mr president, fanaticism which targets the religion of others is a barbarity which must be denounced and fought by all democrats. that is why it is so important that today we express our solidarity with all those who are persecuted for their faith all over the world. the terrible attacks by al qaeda in iraq and egypt and the threats by islamic fundamentalists against christians in the east have a purpose: to create interreligious tensions, to stir up hatred, to turn communities against each other and to provoke a clash of civilizations. this attempt to destabilize europe will fail, as it has failed in france, where the entire muslim community has obviously condemned these barbaric acts. today we must solemnly reaffirm the right of all minorities to practice their religion freely and safely everywhere in the world, including here in europe. we must defend religious pluralism, tolerance and mutual understanding at home in europe and around the world. i hope that the democratic revolution which has affected tunisia will be extended to other countries tomorrow, so that the values of respect, tolerance and secularism can be spread.
mr president, the group of the european united left - nordic green left has not joined the resolution before us today. of course, we can only condemn all acts of terrorism, whoever commits them, whoever is the victim, wherever they take place. but we in this group are deeply committed to secularism, to secularism. we therefore condemn blasphemy. this means that we particularly value freedom of thought, conscience and religion, which includes freedom to believe or not to believe, to choose one's religion, to change one's religion, and to practice freely the religion of one's choice, whatever the religion involved. it also means that we are deeply committed to the separation of religion and politics and that we denounce the rise of fundamentalism in europe and elsewhere, which is often a response to social unrest and the inability of public policies to respond to it. we do not think that this resolution is going in the right direction. i would say, in short, that it is unbalanced, particularly in relation to the one tabled by my group. we feel that this resolution gives the impression that christian europe, the christian community of europe, is coming to the aid of christians throughout the world. we do not think that this is the way to combat the rise of communitarianism.
author. - mr president, madam high representative, the subject we are addressing today would have been worth our attention for many months, as it is true that the security situation in the sahel has been deteriorating continuously for more than three years now. and we are talking about it the same week that in france we have just buried two young and innocent victims of islamic terrorism, who were killed on the border between niger and mali a few weeks ago. beyond the immense emotion that these crimes arouse, we must recognize the reality of the threats that are concentrated in this region at the doorstep of europe, because it is not just a terrorist threat, even if the kidnappings and attacks are the most spectacular manifestations of the deterioration of the situation in mauritania, mali and niger. criminal networks are thriving. the trafficking of drugs, weapons and human beings affects the stability not only of these countries but also of our continent. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. in the face of this extremely worrying situation, the european union must develop a comprehensive, integrated strategy capable of combining development and security policies. it is a vital necessity. there are already actions, of course, notably through the tenth edf, and almost 2 billion euros are being allocated to these countries for actions to fight poverty, develop the economy and establish better governance. and, of course, some member states have bilateral cooperation policies. but today we need to go much further. the main thing is that we need to act in a much more coordinated way. the regional approach must be strengthened to bring these countries closer together to face common challenges, and the range of policies that the union can mobilise, from development to security, to strengthening institutional structures, customs, justice and the police, must be extended and integrated as much as possible. madam high representative, there are few areas so close to europe that pose such threats to our security and there are few areas where the union can finally put into practice the comprehensive approach envisaged by lisbon and which inspired the creation of the external action service that you have the honour of chairing today. madam high representative, thank you for giving us some indication of the strategy you intend to implement for this region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, we all agree that the situation in the sahel region has deteriorated considerably. the danger of allowing a zone of lawlessness to settle at the doorstep of europe is one which we must combat firmly and without delay. extremist groups are increasing and threatening the lives of civilians. i too deplore the loss of life and the taking of hostages and am concerned about the european citizens on the ground. until now, morocco has been a bulwark against all kinds of trafficking from the sahel. now, drug traffickers, arms traffickers and human traffickers are bypassing morocco and passing through mauritania to the canary islands, on their way to the european union. it seems to me that the european union has a responsibility to act to help these states put an end to these threats. the security of europe is at stake not only on our territory but also in its immediate neighbourhood. it is time for us to act and i ask the commission and the council to implement an action plan to help bring about a return to security in the sahel.
mr president, madam vice-president, madam commissioner, it is my turn, after mr danjean, as a member of the european parliament from the north of france, to speak not only of the emotion caused by the murder of young northerners but also of this appalling injustice. we salute their memory. i not only agree with mr danjean's diagnosis but i also welcome the initial replies made by lady ashton at the beginning of our debate. but let me ask you, mrs ashton, we know the porous borders between mali and southern algeria, we know that beyond the sahel, the western sahara can be a source of insecurity tomorrow as much as the sahel is today. consequently, can you tell us whether you are planning to adopt initiatives, in particular to respond to the autonomy plan as presented by the kingdom of morocco to the un, which would allow - i believe - to secure the area and to establish the necessary dialogue with the algerian authorities in particular.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs gomes for allowing us to have a debate on a negotiating mandate and a negotiating content which can be described as scabreux. the tunisian example should also invite us to exercise great caution, particularly in the way you report on the negotiations. we cannot just take satisfaction in the negotiations and be happy that a regime like gaddafi's has accepted, for example, this or that reference to human rights, since it is a regime that is notoriously and powerfully violating all fundamental freedoms. the migrants who arrive on our shores, and they are fewer and fewer, all say in one way or another "i would rather drown than go back to libya", because of the rape of women, torture, ill-treatment, refoulement, mass expulsions, acts of racism. that said, i repeat, the list of serious and massive violations of the rights of migrants in libya is long. so, yes, of course, doing everything we can to improve the situation of these people, it seems to me absolutely urgent. this is done through unhcr, through our own commitment to resettle the people identified by unhcr, and it is also done through the activity of a civil society which, for the moment, is more than thin and which we should be able to strengthen by all means. i believe that there is still a long way to go from that to returning irregular migrants to our territory if we are really to meet the objectives of our foreign policy as set out in the treaties.
author. - mr president, i would first like to point out that one of the issues in our debate is, in my view, the establishment of a common european asylum system by 2012, which will finally put an end to the aggregation of the worst national practices in asylum matters. let us not lose sight of this, because it requires us to move towards greater harmonization, based on common rules. i am convinced that practical cooperation alone will not resolve the current divergences in national asylum systems. let me also express my concern about the progress of the common european asylum system, given the many deadlocks at council level. the future of this complex enterprise is in doubt. i want to see the commission's attempt to save the situation in the near future with a revised proposal for two directives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we mean is that with stronger procedural guarantees the financial burden on member states for examining asylum applications will be considerably increased, which is all the more difficult to bear in a budgetary context marked by crisis. i repeat, however, that it is rather poorly used and low-quality procedures that are costing member states dearly. and it is the front loading approach, i.e. the improvement of the first instance procedures, which the commission favours in its recast proposal, which will, in my view, make it possible in the medium term to achieve real economies of scale. why would you do that? because these harmonised procedures will help to identify improper requests better from the outset in the determining authorities, to improve the reasons for decisions and to make decisions faster and of better quality, thereby reducing the time of the procedure, the number of appeals lodged and cancellations at second instance, reducing reception costs and, ultimately, reducing costs. and if we want to talk about costs, why not also talk about the dublin-eurodac system? why do none of the member states dare to ask for a cost-effectiveness report on the application of this system? it is known, however, that the human consequences of the dublin system are deplorable, but that the record is not very good, both in terms of actual transfers and in terms of preventing secondary movements or multiple requests, which are the very reasons for the dublin system. so if we are to talk about costs, let us talk about costs, but for the whole system, including the costs of the dublin system. for my part, as rapporteur on the procedure directive, i remain convinced that the current level of harmonisation is insufficient and detracts from the quality and efficiency of the process. these failures are a burden for both the member states and the victims of persecution. the 2012 horizon remains our objective, but for reasons of respect for deadlines we must not take the responsibility of arriving at a sloppy text based on the lowest common denominators. we need fair, accessible and effective procedures, and that is at any rate my objective and that of my group in this debate.
author. - mr president, i think the purpose of this debate is to force the council to come out of the wood because it is still incredible that, in the face of such an ambitious - and i was going to say, so necessary - package of asylum reforms, we have only glimpses, possibly contradictory, of the interpretation of the obstacles in the council on progress on the proposals which have now been on the table for some time. we have a vague understanding that the council or the member states would raise questions of cost, but we still need to agree on what it means by that. is there talk of human cost, political cost, financial cost? in some cases, these costs are linked. one thing is certain, and that is that there are practices and protection in europe today that are deficient. first, because it is not true that europe is hosting all the misery in the world -- i believe, for example, that in 2007, europe only hosted 14 percent of the world's refugees -- and second, because there are practices that are absolutely unbearable. i am thinking of the phallometric tests in the czech republic, in europe! i am thinking of the documents of the committee against torture which have revealed many cases of refoulement due, for example, to non-suspended appeals or sloppy procedures. i think we can talk about costs, and we could talk about the expulsion of migrants, which is very expensive: 20,000 euros, says the french senate, per person expelled. and we could talk about how we could make things better. it is certainly necessary to ask ourselves, as mrs guillaume does in her report, when about 50% of decisions at first instance are overturned on appeal, how the quality of the decision at first instance could be improved. obviously it's a saving in terms of financial cost, human cost and political cost that is absolutely considerable. we can come back to the dublin aberrations and i think the council should look at them very seriously because here too the human and financial cost is absolutely considerable. finally, what is very expensive - as the parliament's study says - is detention. the cost of detaining asylum seekers is prohibitive. we must say so, we must tell the council about it and discuss it, and this is absolutely urgent!
mr president, commissioner, our colleague mr eppink's report is quite remarkable, but i am a little afraid - it has nothing to do with the rapporteur - that we are here repeating and repeating the same things. we're giving a kind of worship to a dead object. i am sure that i agree with sophie and philippe that we need to have a good control of competition, to think about what is happening in the agricultural sector, with very few buyers and a lot of producers, which has never bothered the commission, whereas in the industrial sector it would have immediately thrown itself into the cartel of buyers. we also need new rules for the internet. but our relations with the commission are extremely boring. you send us a report that covers three quarters of the subjects. we politely say that it is interesting and that something else should be added, and then everyone puts it in a drawer. i just wanted to say that today and to echo what our colleague hökmark said, that the world is changing. it is very nice to say that state aid is not good, but still the chinese, the koreans, the americans and others give state aid. i'm not in favor of it. i am not the french protectionist of the day, i am simply saying: let us open our eyes a little and wake up!
in writing. this report is surprisingly contradictory. it welcomed the eu-libya negotiations with a view to eventually integrating libya into the euro-mediterranean free trade area which the eurocracy had been preparing for us for 15 years. but he lists a whole series of violations of human rights and democracy by a regime he himself calls authoritarian. in the meantime, the common position on cuba is maintained. two weights, two measures. for the present european union, the prerequisite for trade is not respect for human rights and democracy but the establishment of a market economy with free and distorted competition. the union is a vigilant imperialism. his late reactions to tunisia bear this out.
in writing. we were all very shocked by the recent terrorist attack on the syriac catholic cathedral in baghdad. this attack was one of a series of serious events, all related to religion. this is a very sensitive subject. the european people's party is strongly committed to secularism and to respect for all religions in europe, especially islam. in this spirit, we cannot remain indifferent to the fate of a number of christian communities throughout the world. every religion must be treated with equal respect, which is why i have joined this resolution of the european parliament. all the events he condemns took place in muslim countries, where special attention should be paid to the fate of christians. so we must all work for respect for different religious beliefs, and i think this text goes in that direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution condemning the murderous attacks on christians in the east. the attacks on christians in recent months have been a tragedy for the many victims, especially in baghdad and alexandria, but also for their fellow believers. christians have been living in the orient for 2,000 years, and they are written in the history of their country. but now they are fleeing the region en masse. because of this forced exile, these countries are losing a substantial part of their human wealth. the near and middle east has always been a land of diversity and coexistence of religious minorities. the terrorists behind these attacks are trying to create a head-on collision between east and west, the muslim world against the christian world. this is all diabolically designed. christians in iraq or egypt may feel abandoned and betrayed. it is important that the egyptian and iraqi authorities find and prosecute without mercy those responsible for these massacres.
in writing. christians are the most persecuted community in the world in 2011, and it is good that european states are aware of this and are starting to react. the condemnation of the attacks is just and necessary but insufficient, the principle of reciprocity does not appear in this resolution. moreover, the weak condemnation of turkey's actions in the area it has militarily occupied in cyprus will unfortunately not have the effect that the french expect - the halting of accession negotiations with turkey - and will have no incentive. i support this resolution in support of wounded christians around the world, but i regret that there are some omissions or inconsistencies.
in writing. the republican conception of french secularism is the separation of church and state. it guarantees freedom of conscience and of worship. religious violence is rooted in the inherent dogmatism of all religions. so people need to be protected from the violence that these religions generate. despite its implicit references to the criminal thesis of the "clash of civilizations" and the blind assertions of a papal organization, this text makes it possible to demand freedom of worship everywhere in the world and the protection of practitioners against fanaticism. i vote for compassion and conviction.
in writing. i support this resolution unreservedly, which strongly condemns the increase in attacks against christian communities, because such barbaric acts are manifestations of hatred and intolerance and cannot be accepted. i deplore the violence and loss of life which have caused grief to many families and to all christian communities throughout the world. striking these communities is an attack on our most fundamental values and respect for diversity and religious freedom is a universal principle that must be defended. these attacks, carried out in the name of extremist obscurantism from another age, are designed to create a climate of fear, and ultimately, it is the survival of these millennial communities that is directly threatened. the eu must stand with the victims and support the authorities who commit themselves to prosecuting the perpetrators. this requirement must be at the heart of our relations with our partners, as must the human rights clauses. tolerance and peace are closely linked and i will, as always, support the european union's actions to ensure respect for and promotion of our values, freedoms and rights in the world.
in writing. every year, the european commission's directorate-general for competition publishes its report on eu competition policy. the european commission has very broad powers in this area to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the year 2009 was marked by the strong crisis context and the european commission had to take this into account in its monitoring of business practices. i voted for parliament's resolution because it calls on the european commission to involve meps more closely in the decision-making process on this policy, to take more account of services of general interest and to pay more attention to the activities of financial sector companies by the european commission services.
in writing. if there had been an electronic vote on the 2009 competition policy report, i would have abstained. there were indeed good things in this report (an assessment of competition policy, consumer rights, innovation and an increased role for smes), but i deplore the general angle from which it was drafted: a kind of suspicion towards state aid - which is supposed to be contrary to competition policy a priori - and a way of advocating the early liberalisation of certain sectors of the economy, notably the railway sector, which seems inappropriate to me. we must change this perspective and put citizens back at the heart of the problem. we see that, particularly in the case of public services, the rules on state aid are not suited to the tasks of a public service and deserve to be reconsidered with the needs of citizens and social cohesion in mind.
in writing. the report is an ode to free and undistorted competition, which it presents as the sure-fire remedy for the financial crisis. it's the opposite. competition is the evil, not the cure. this document is an absurd creed. i vote against it.
in writing. it is estimated that one fifth of the world's remaining undiscovered hydrocarbon resources are in the arctic. this region is also a very important route for global shipping. the availability and security of these communication channels is therefore of crucial importance. even if the union does not have a coastline on this sea, it is clear that arctic affairs are of the greatest interest to europeans. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a strategy for the far north. the union must play its role as a world power by asserting both its interests in the region and the need for good international governance of natural resources and the ecological challenges that will not be lacking. on this occasion, explicit reference was made to the role that iceland's accession can play in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a sustainable european policy in the far north, which stresses the need for dialogue with arctic communities in order to gain a better understanding of the living conditions and culture of indigenous communities. this is a vital point, which is repeated many times throughout the text. the interests of the european union must take into account the interests of indigenous peoples in protecting and developing the arctic region. we call for specific measures to preserve the culture, language and customs of indigenous peoples, which requires regular dialogue between representatives of indigenous peoples and the eu institutions. we ask that the european commission guarantee the interests of indigenous peoples when negotiating trade agreements. i therefore deplore the european regulation on the ban on seal products, which is contrary to the interests of the arctic communities in terms of sustainable resource management and culture and customs. this regulation, which is rightly contested by canada and norway, is contrary to the interests of the european union in the arctic region and should, in my view, be withdrawn.
in writing. the text supports the sustainable exploitation of the arctic but relieves oil and gas companies of any responsibility in this area. he dismisses environmentalists' comments on the ongoing plundering of this region crucial to the survival of the human species. worse still, it is not at all planning to limit investment in the exploitation of the fossil resources of the far north in favour of research into renewable energies. this report validates the ecological crime. i vote against it.
in writing. for almost 50 years, the european union has brought peace and stability to the peoples of western europe. however, it should not be forgotten that serious unrest continues to trouble neighbouring countries. the union must take account of these realities and give new impetus to its strategy for the black sea region. this resolution provides that answer, and i have therefore voted in favour of it. it creates a new budget line, which will give priority to financing small-scale development projects and cross-border cooperation, and strengthens human resources. an early warning system will prevent conflict and build confidence in the region by preventing any escalation of violence. the resolution also draws attention to the prolonged stationing of the russian black sea fleet in crimea and the concerns it raises.
in writing. the european union's black sea strategy is entirely devoted to the development of the nabucco pipeline and the establishment of a free trade area ensuring its energy security and hegemony over the region. the fight against the ecological disaster in progress is being put on the back burner, as are the social and economic interests of the peoples of the region. this is an imperialist manifesto. it uses the arguments of the propaganda of the adventurous government of georgia, whose undemocratic practices are not mentioned. propaganda and threats. it's a provocative piece. i vote against it.
author. - mr president, i should like to say at the beginning of this speech that i have read the joint resolution on pakistan and in particular on the assassination of governor salman taseer with great interest. it is a curious contrast to the one adopted this morning on christian minorities. we are all committed in this house, i hope, to freedom of speech, conscience and religion. we should be equally concerned about all those who are persecuted because of their religious choices, including when they decide to change their religion and when they do not believe in god. if we are to combat religious bigotry of any kind, we must treat all the victims of such bigotry equally. no religion is or has been immune from what i would call these intolerable differences. let us simply recall the mass killings of indians in america and particularly in the caribbean and latin america. think of the dark period of the crusades, the inquisition, and the religious wars between catholics and protestants. we must remember the anti-semitism which caused so much damage in the 20th century and which survives more or less latently in many countries of the european union. all religions have their fundamentalists, and the first victims of these fundamentalists are often the moderate religious people of the same religions. the murder of salman taseer, the governor of the province of punjab, is an example of this. this man was murdered because he was a model of tolerance and because he dared to denounce the blasphemy law in his country and the misuse of it by some extremist groups in cases like asia bibi, a christian woman sentenced to death for blasphemy under pakistan's penal code. the praise of his murderer by fanatical groups is even more unbearable. let us not forget that this blasphemy law applies first of all to muslims, that it affects all religious minorities, especially women, but also trade unionists, journalists, lawyers, and that beyond that, all these people are often deprived of their basic freedoms when they are not forced to live in hiding. it is therefore time for the commission and the foreign affairs service to change their policy and i would like you, commissioner, to give us a precise assessment of the agreement with tunisia, the agreement on democracy and human rights with pakistan and that tunisia serves as a lesson to us, and you as a lesson.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little surprised at the number of members who are in this house on a thursday afternoon. i am there every thursday afternoon and i find this sudden interest in human rights issues a bit unusual. i would be happy to do so if i did not notice that the majority of members in this chamber are italian and are not used to dealing with human rights and are often quick to, in addition, ... would you care to explain yourself, my dear colleague? so do it in the microphone and i'll get back to you. it's called a personal challenge. you're italian, i'm french, i respect you as an italian. anyone can see that there is still a majority of italian members, which is unusual on a thursday afternoon. i'm here every thursday afternoon, sir! every thursday afternoon, i'm here in session! (applause from the centre) let me speak in peace! i'm not in the habit of interrupting my colleagues and i can't stand to be interrupted! mr president, may i have my say? (the president called for the speaker to continue) i also note that italian members of parliament are generally the first to ask that their democracy be respected and that they not be interfered with in their italian affairs. that's a fact. it is enough to read the debates in the european parliament. this is not a question of whether cesare battisti is guilty or not. i know - and i am speaking to you - that the lead years are a difficult time for italians. i know it's a difficult time for italians. i know they've caused a lot of casualties. but i also know that not all the perpetrators of the bombings have been tried in italy. not all the perpetrators of the bombings have been tried in italy! (exclamation) can you let me speak without interrupting? it's like a national parliament! this is not the european parliament's way! mr president, is it possible to speak without being interrupted? (the president asked the speaker to conclude) i think that on thursday afternoon we should not interfere in relations between brazil and italy. i agree that this is a matter of upholding the right to justice, but let us give the supreme court of brazil time to make its decision. the brazilian court has been seized, the supreme court has not yet issued its decision, this case is not under... (the president withdrew the floor) (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)) mr president, i am used to respecting my colleagues and i am prepared to answer the question. i wish they would show the same tolerance for me.
author. - mr president, i consider this question to be a personal challenge. no, i'm not ashamed, madame, because i took the trouble to say that i considered the years of lead to be difficult years for italy. i consider the lead years to be difficult years for italy! i know how many people were killed in italy. i took a personal interest in that period. so no, i am not ashamed, i am not blaming the victims, i am blaming the use by the italian members of parliament of the thursday afternoon session reserved for human rights affairs for an issue which is an italian-brazilian issue. i think that the european union - and i hope that is what the commissioner will say - has no business interfering in italian-brazilian affairs, that is not its role. these sessions are reserved for the "human rights" sessions! and i have not given you any lessons in the matter, madame!
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is with deep emotion that i address you this afternoon. first of all, mr president, i would like to thank you personally for your involvement. the recognition of the genocide is a historic moment for millions of europeans, including the yeniks, sinti, roma, manouches and the nomads. hundreds of thousands of their relatives were murdered during those dark years, often under the infamous label of antisocial. but it is also a historic moment for all of us, citizens of the european union. the roma were the first to move from one country to another in europe, long before we established our common space. and today, with a population of ten million, they are our first minority. their story is our story, too. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to restore the confidence of these european citizens in their european institutions. they are still suffering the double sentence of being ostracised from our societies. to the horror of war has been added oblivion, indifference, silence. the recognition of the genocide is therefore a genuine act of remembrance. it will certainly be a memorial, but it must be above all a guarantee of a different future. european and national parliamentarians, both east and west, in the bundestag last week, took their responsibility to history by pushing for the recognition of this genocide. it is the first step towards a new way of looking at these europeans. we still have a long way to go. let us make the gypsies full citizens of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, what will european public opinion take away from the meeting of its leaders in brussels on friday? will it understand that european answers are sought in good faith to european challenges - the euro, energy, research and innovation, employment? or are we once again witnessing the sad spectacle of divisions and power struggles? what will the headlines be? what will be discussed on saturday in the blogs, on facebook, when the decisions of the european council are mentioned? europe's timidity in the face of the situation in the mediterranean countries, which are demanding respect for their rights, or, on the contrary, its leadership? europe's duty in this regard is clear: to use all its resources, all its diplomacy to help with the transition and the holding of democratic and open elections. ladies and gentlemen, the epp group believes that the solution to our problems is not less europe, but more europe! the solution is not more so-called national victories, but more joint victories, more coordinated responses. the solution is not more laxity in respecting our common rules, but more discipline. the solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not more divergence in our budgets, in our labour laws, in our tax rates, but more convergence! for the epp group, if there is one lesson to be learned from the crisis, it is that without a common vision and without common means, our countries will be mired in sluggish growth and plunge into social crisis. if there is one lesson to be learned from the crisis, it is that by thinking european, working european, investing european, our countries will emerge from the difficult period they are going through sustainably strengthened. what more do we need to react together than the difficulties we have just experienced? with the european commission, with the majority of my colleagues in this house and, i am sure, with the majority of the 500 million europeans, i ask the european council: when will we act and react more together? as for the euro, i now know that our governments will stand firm and will not let speculators destroy 60 years of european construction. i ask them now to concentrate on consolidating the much-needed stability mechanism. i ask them above all to strengthen their budgetary discipline and to stick to the reduction of public deficits. european governance is the prerequisite for the success of our common project. my group is as committed to this as it is to the euro, in other words absolutely! the solution to our problems, as i said at the beginning, is not less europe, but more europe! if this is true of employment and the economy, it is also true of energy, which the european council will also be dealing with this friday. more europe means, first of all, fully implementing the existing laws in the field of the internal energy market. it cannot be said enough that fully operating this market will make us more competitive, ensure security of supply and guarantee a substantial increase in the production of renewable energy. more europe also means pushing our member states to win the bet of a 20% increase in their energy efficiency by 2020. they set that goal for themselves. we must ensure that they do, otherwise we will have to raise the standards to achieve that. finally, more europe in the energy sector means more investment. the commission estimates that the effort required to meet the required level of infrastructure will be one billion euros. we expect ambitious decisions from the council in this respect. safe and clean energy is as essential for europe as a policy of research and development and a policy of industrial innovation. the solution is more europe and more attention to small and mediumsized enterprises. the solution is to reduce bureaucratic constraints to a minimum and finally agree on a european patent. in the field of innovation too, we expect our leaders to find common solutions, not to fight over the towers. ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to move beyond our reflexes of the past. it's good to value our differences, but it's better to make them complementary! individual initiative may be helpful, but team play is the winner! it is legitimate to cherish national ambitions, but to understand that the global game is won by a team is to ensure a future for europeans.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we will not have social progress without growth, and we will not have growth without energy. energy is at the heart of the european social pact for prosperity. 50% of energy supplies come from outside the union. there is an urgent need to diversify supply, to secure it, to decarbonize it. this is our energy, this is the assurance we owe to the citizens. this leads me, madam president, to ask you to support our international commitments with the iter project, that is to say the fusion project. it is a safe technology, a sustainable technology, a free technology, an infinite technology. it would be good if the european council, the highest political body, supported this project vis-à-vis the international community. which brings me to the subject of research and innovation. since the 1980s, the framework programmes for research and development have been the european instruments of intervention. 53 billion for the period 2007-13. where are we? we have been waiting for four months, commissioner, for your communication on the revision of the seventh framework programme for research. mr barroso said: 'less paperwork'. he's right, you know. we are suffering from administrative asphyxiation and research actors are turning their backs on european programmes. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is an urgent need not only to simplify the future but also to resolve the conflicts of the past, because we have a problem of trust with research institutes. i would like to thank commissioner máire geoghegan-quinn for her excellent work. relations with industrial policy are disappointing, we must assess them, and joint technological initiatives, after a difficult start, bring about a real positive change in taking industrial needs into account. finally, how are we going to structure our european space? it is essential that the european research council becomes a genuine entity for europeanising research. this is the europe of results that our fellow europeans expect.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mrs ashton, you are calling for calm. but then, name a cat a cat! it was mubarak's troops who instilled terror in the square, not the protesters in egypt today! so don't ask everyone to be quiet. ask mr. mubarak to stop attacking the protesters because he is doing this so that he can then say, "i will bring order to the chaos". that's the trap he's setting, and we're both saying, "shut up". no, you can't! we must tell mr mubarak: "calm down!" and the best way to calm the situation is to get out of the way, to leave. then peace will reign in cairo. did you see that those who came with knives, they are police officers of mr. mubarak? it was the poor people who were brought in by bus from the far reaches of egypt this morning who caused the disturbance. we must say it, mrs ashton, and not pretend to be blind! there is something that i find extraordinary about you: today you understand everything about what happened, about what tunisia was like three weeks ago. but when, three weeks ago, we took the initiative here in the european parliament to ask you to stop the negotiations on the extension of the aid to tunisia because of the dictatorship, you told us that this was not possible. and today, it is possible! you're a resistance fighter of the twenty-fifth hour! after that, everything is clear! so i ask you, mrs ashton, in relation to tunisia, to tell us where europe has put its money. tell us which companies have received european money, which companies of mr ben ali and his wife have been supported by european money. this parliament has a right to know! secondly, mrs ashton, since you say that you are going to support the tunisian people today, i ask you one thing: that there should be equality of opportunity in the democratic process in the transition. if there is a new election - you know that the tunisian rcd has money, that the opposition forces, banned for years, have no money - the european union must be there to support democratic balance and equality. as regards egypt, mrs ashton, one thing is clear today: if we fail to support the egyptians in this process of liberation, the peoples of the middle east, the arab peoples, will turn their backs on us once again, whereas today we have an extraordinary situation - you did not mention it, mr verhofstadt, nor did you -: there was a demonstration in gaza in support of the egyptians and hamas banned that demonstration. this is proof that today the wind of freedom is also blowing against theocracies in the middle east and the arab countries, and it is our role to help them. we have wept for years, when there was only the alternative between dictatorships and theocracies. well, in the name of allah! there is a third possibility, which is freedom and the struggle for freedom against dictatorships and theocracies, and it is our european role to stand by those who are waging this struggle. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
madam, i would not dare to give you a history lesson, but i would still like to remind you that in iran, it was the west, america, that supported the shah of iran and that, until the last moment, even under the bakhtiar government, we found ourselves on the wrong side, and we gave all the weapons to the iranian theocracy to win. that's exactly what i wanted to explain to you, that if we don't side with those who fight for freedom, those who fight for freedom will end up in a dead end and the other way will win. that's the lesson of iran, ma'am. the lesson from iran is what mr gorbachev said: "he who arrives too late in history will be beaten". i ask that for once europe does not arrive too late in this region. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i did not want to go back so much, but i hear some surprising things. i think that in recent months we have been almost the only ones, with a few members of the green/efa group, to ask for the situation in tunisia to be discussed. there are indeed - mr cohn-bendit, you are right - many resistance fighters of the twenty-fifth hour. we have a lot to say about the past, but we have said so in our own resolution and we think we should look first to the future. first of all, we must avoid interfering in the internal affairs of these countries. it is not for us europeans to say how the governments of these countries should be composed. the tunisian people have freed themselves from a dictatorial regime. let him speak and let us support him on his way to democracy. anyone who follows the situation in tunisia knows that the past is not dead yet and that some are manipulating and scheming in the shadows. the violence in egypt today also shows that it is difficult. so, yes, condemn all violence in the strongest terms, and do not just ask for it to be stopped, as you did in tunisia. police violence is still unacceptable, today as yesterday, in tunisia and egypt, as elsewhere. let us ask the tunisian authorities, the tunisian people, what they expect without imposing anything on them. you have taken stock of your discussions with the foreign minister, but you have added, without, it seems, having been asked, that you want to increase market access there. i think this is quite inappropriate, because there has been no lack of european union support in this area. everyone seems to be discovering today the corruption of mr ben ali's regime. yes, economic liberalisation in tunisia has benefited the ben ali and trabelsi families through the help of the european union. yes, the european union must be firm on all human rights violations. the european union has lost a lot of credibility in these countries. yes, we must finally support the democrats and condemn all dictatorships.
madam president, the world is moving and changing, and in particular the arab world, where, it should be remembered, 40% of the population lives below the poverty line and where youth unemployment is the highest in the world. the arab peoples aspire to development and democracy, and the two are inseparable, and in tunisia as in egypt, these peoples have taken their destiny into their own hands to impose the change to which they are entitled. and this movement, despite all the provocations, as we have seen again today in cairo, despite all the difficulties, nothing and no one will stop it. on tunisia yesterday, and egypt today, there is a voice that has been heard, and that is the united states, which has resolutely sided with the democrats. i believe in europe, but i also believe that it only makes sense if it too always takes a firm stand on the side of the democrats, and i would have dreamed and wished that europe to be there at that meeting! she wasn't. not only because of you, but also because of the frivolity of its leaders, who too often prefer stillness to movement. more than 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall, we are witnessing a historic change. i urge you to take action so that you do not miss this appointment with world history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, until now i have had the feeling that the people are always ahead of their political elites. i'm sure of it now. let me first of all salute the courage and determination of the tunisian and egyptian peoples. they reminded us that the values we carry around the world - human rights and democracy - are not western values, as some claim, but universal values shared by all. i believe that europe can no longer continue to wander around in this part of the world, praising false analyses for false projects. these peoples expect from us a response commensurate with their courage and aspirations. it is not a request for charity, certainly not a request for solidarity, but even more a request for responsibility. in these uncertain times, no one wants chaos, but no one should accept the status quo. we must accompany the hope created by these events in tunisia and egypt in order to contribute to the affirmation and establishment of democracies which are beneficial for these countries and their people, but also beneficial for ourselves, and i believe, mrs ashton, that you have expressed this forcefully. i conclude by quoting a poet who said: "the world is sleeping because of lack of prudence". these peoples were rightly foolish in seeking their freedom, but i hope above all that they have awakened our consciences.
madam president, much has already been said, but i join in the expressions of sympathy and support that have already been expressed to the tunisian and egyptian peoples. they represent a symbol of hope for all defenders of liberty. i also have a thought for the victims. i would now like to say that the european union, which, as has been said, has been noted for its lack of reaction, must stand by the tunisian and egyptian peoples to help them bring about the opening of their countries to reform and the establishment of democracy. the european union has decided to accompany the tunisian leaders in initiating a peaceful transition, preparing the organisation of the forthcoming elections to win freedom and helping the tunisian people to find prosperity of development and social peace, an economy which will enable the youth to find employment. in conclusion, i would say that the union for the mediterranean faces a major challenge because the jasmine revolution has triggered a wave in all the states of the maghreb, the near east and the middle east. it must have a strong strategy towards these countries. but beware: in the face of this legitimate democratic movement, europe must find a balance between non-interference in internal affairs, support for the legitimate aspirations of the people and stability.
madam president, after having been wrong in supporting the dictatorial regimes on the southern shore of the mediterranean under the pretext of building a bulwark against muslim fundamentalism, it is now up to us to live up to the historic moment we are living. europe must renew its policy towards authoritarian regimes and dictators. mubarak has to leave now. we must support democracies and democratization processes as they are chosen by the people, not just according to our vision. let us listen, let us be modest, let us not confuse secularism with security. the commission is already working on this in these countries. our financial instruments must be reoriented towards unwavering support for the democrats... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, i am very happy that the people of south sudan have been able to determine their own destiny. this unprecedented result was achieved, and this is to be welcomed, thanks to the strong commitment of the international community and the european union. we are thus on the verge of a historic turning point: the establishment of lasting peace in a country that has experienced almost 40 years of civil war over a period of 55 years of independence and the birth of a new state. a new phase is opening, that of negotiations between the north and the south on issues still to be settled for the implementation of the 2005 agreement: citizenship, delimitation of borders, connection of the abyei area to the north or the south, sharing of the oil resource or debt issue. the european union must of course accompany this political process and support the development of this country. the international community and the european union must not forget north sudan, nor should they forget darfur, where the conflict is still far from being resolved and where violence has increased dramatically over the past 12 months, with more than 270 000 people forced to flee their homes and more than 3 million people still living in camps today.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the honourable members – my dear ex-colleagues – for giving me the opportunity to comment, on behalf of the council, on the appointment process of the chairs and executive directors of the new european supervisory authorities – the esas – and on the principles that should guide the performance of their duties. the esa regulations, which we adopted less than three months ago, give no specific role to the council in the appointments of the chair and executive director of each esa, which are made by the respective board of supervisors. hence, in accordance with the esa regulations, the chairperson of each esa is appointed by the board of supervisors. furthermore, the esa regulations give a crucial role to the european parliament, which has been granted the possibility of objecting to the appointment of those senior executives and of removing a chairperson from office following a decision of the board of supervisors. where, then, does the council stand in this scenario? well, the council, as co-legislator, has agreed with parliament to insert in these regulations provisions that aim to ensure that members of the board of supervisors – the management board – the chairperson and the executive director of each esa are protected by, and bound to, strict independence so as to act solely in the interests of the union. i will not quote in full the provisions of those regulations, and more particularly articles 42, 46, 49 and 52, but their spirit is clear. this is that neither the voting members of the boards, nor the chairperson or executive director, shall seek or take instructions from eu institutions or bodies, member state governments or any public or private body, and that these, in turn, shall not seek to influence the chair or the executive director in the performance of their tasks. the esa regulations are subject to the staff regulations adopted by the eu institutions. they also contain a number of key provisions that aim to ensure that the chair and executive director of each authority are selected in the most objective way, on the strict basis of the criteria set out in articles 48 and 51 of the regulations. apart from the managerial experience specific to the executive director’s profile, i note that both those articles list as criteria ‘merit, skills, knowledge of financial institutions and markets, and experience relevant to financial supervision and regulation’. as far as financing is concerned, the council placed high ambitions on the esas when it adopted the regulations, and i am sure that was also the case with parliament. it now falls to both institutions, as budgetary authorities, to ensure that those ambitions are translated into the appropriate means each year, on the basis of the commission’s budgetary proposal. the presidency also attaches great importance to all member states fulfilling their obligations towards the new authorities. for the council, as co-legislator, it is essential that all the provisions of the regulations are implemented completely and faithfully. we expect the european commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to ensure that this is indeed the case. as the honourable members will be aware, the commission is also entrusted, in recital 55 of the regulations, with the responsibility of drawing up a shortlist of candidates to steer the process of selecting the first chairperson of each authority. parliament and the council agreed to this starting procedure when adopting the regulations. i hope that the chairpersons will now be able to start their work. it is of primary importance for the new agencies to be up and running as soon as possible. they are an essential part of the eu’s response to the challenges posed by the financial crisis. we cannot afford to wait, and i am sure i can count on the full support of parliament to ensure the smooth establishment and running of the new agencies. as a result of the good cooperation between parliament and the council, the eu has a brand new supervisory authority structure. it is our common responsibility to ensure that esas get down to business as soon as possible. as the representative of a parliament-friendly presidency, i am fully commited to working in maximum harmony with the european parliament, and i also hope to be able to work with a parliament that is a faithful partner.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam minister győri, ladies and gentlemen, since 1 january the european union has had a new system of supervision of the financial sector. this system, combined with a thorough reform of the regulation of financial markets and players, will strengthen financial stability in the union and, i believe, will provide more opportunities and a solid basis for the financial industry, which is extremely important in our countries. i would like to begin by welcoming the major role played once again, over the last few years, by the european parliament in this process. if we have a more effective system of supervision of the financial sector today, if we are drawing the lessons of the crisis on this and other subjects, we owe it in large measure to the european parliament. we are now approaching the final stages of the establishment of this new architecture of the three european supervisory authorities, with the appointment of their chairs and executive directors in the coming days. these appointment procedures, ladies and gentlemen, have been conducted in full transparency, in strict compliance with the regulations which created the authorities and with the other rules applicable to the appointment of the heads of the regulatory agencies of the union. approximately 275 applications were received for the six posts i have just mentioned. they've all been carefully, objectively examined. the roles assigned to the various stakeholders, the parliament, the committee of supervisors, the commission itself, have also been meticulously respected. in future we will continue to ensure that the process is transparent, properly planned, in order to enable the econ committee of your parliament to play its very important role to the best of its ability. your parliament has made very high demands of these authorities, and i think it is right. he's making demands that i can understand. like parliament, the commission considers that the presidents and executive directors of these authorities should be chosen on the basis of their merits, experience, independence, european commitment and knowledge of matters relating to the supervision and regulation of financial markets. it is in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, that the selection procedures which are now under way have been carried out, so far, on the basis of the applications which we have received. moreover, since the parliament and the council decided in article 68 of the regulations establishing these authorities that the presidents and executive directors were to be subject to the rules applicable to the staff of the institutions of the union, the commission has ensured that this is the case and that, on this and other subjects, the regulation is respected. you have expressed, ladies and gentlemen, concern about the salaries and the maximum age of the heads of these authorities. we have explored all avenues to achieve maximum flexibility on these points and this issue may, if necessary, be further considered when the review of the functioning of the authorities is planned for the end of 2013. i also agree with parliament's desire to ensure the best possible gender balance in the leadership of these authorities. in the pre-selection procedure, the commission rigorously applied this principle of equal opportunities from the applications which were registered. i note in this connection that in the latest ongoing and unfinished process for the appointment of executive directors, two women of quality are in the running for the position of executive director. i fully agree with parliament that we need strong authorities, independent of any political or other interference. the presidents, executive directors and members of the various 'boards' will have to act with complete independence and in the union's sole interest. parliament and the council have inscribed this principle at the heart of the regulations establishing the authorities, in particular in articles 42, 46, 49 and 52, as minister győri has just mentioned. the commission, as the guardian of european union law, will assume its full and complete responsibility for ensuring that these articles are strictly respected. i would add that the commission will be present in the governing bodies of the authorities and that, as such, it will of course be vigilant to ensure that any decision taken is in the union's interest. as regards the composition of the board of supervisors, the commission has already stressed the legal necessity and political importance of the board being composed of the heads of the national competent authorities. i myself have written to the authorities to clarify this point if it needs to be clarified. some national authorities have since changed their representation. others still have to do it; the commission will be following this very closely, rest assured, and will be inflexible. the composition of the boards of the authorities must be fully compatible with your will, the will of the legislator in general, and i will personally ensure that the heads of the national authorities are actually present at least, i say, at least twice a year, in accordance with article 40 of the regulations which created these authorities. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with parliament's desire to ensure that these authorities have the financial and human resources they need to carry out their mandate with credibility. the budgetary authority can rely on the technical support of the commission to ensure that there is a good balance between the responsibilities entrusted to these authorities and, of course, the resources allocated to them to carry out these responsibilities. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now essential that the procedures for appointing and confirming the presidents and executive directors of these authorities be completed. we need those authorities to get to work. i can assure you that every day i see evidence of the usefulness of these new authorities, since we are now calling on them on an almost daily basis. the tasks to be carried out by these authorities in cooperation with the european systemic risk board are of the utmost importance. we wanted them to be fully operational by 1 january. it is now up to us, each in his own role, to enable them to carry out their task quickly and in good conditions. they need the full support of your institution. for its part, i repeat before you, the commission will ensure that the will of the legislator is fully respected and that these authorities work exclusively in the interests of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, this is not a legal debate, this is a real political debate. it is the future of europe in terms of financial regulation. this is the culmination of some of the work which parliament has been carrying out with the council and at the instigation of the commission. so let me be very clear. it's not about us having fun doing some kind of revolution or showing off biceps. the aim is to ensure that the spirit which has guided the agreements between the council and parliament is actually respected. this isn't a law class. it doesn't matter what the lyrics are. we know the texts. what is important is how these texts will be implemented. in this respect, i would like to thank the commissioner for his clear statement. we have never called the commission into question and the words spoken by the commissioner are entirely in line with what parliament wants. it is a political act, which means that 'these institutions are in place, we must give them the practical means to function'. however, we have - and i think it is not just doubts - suspicions about the way in which these provisions have actually been put in place by a number of member states, by those who want to unclamp down on european supervision, those who want to prevent financial regulation at european level. we are against this because we believe that if this had been the case, we would have been deceived in the negotiation on supervision. it was long, it was difficult. everyone has made compromises. we have had a remarkable work from the belgian presidency, an extraordinary impulse from the commissioner and today we could be faced with institutions which would have no real power: by the degradation of the staff who are appointed, by the fact that the member states have not chosen the best, perhaps because the salaries were not attractive. in any case, today we must give parliament a concrete answer and i must tell you, madam minister, that despite the friendship i have for you, since we have sat on the same benches, in the same group and in the same committee, that the letter i have read, which i would like to admit is only a first draft, is not enough. i will give you the answer from the epp. it's very simple. you say on behalf of the council that you subscribe to the commissioner's statement word for word and i can tell you that we shall find it satisfactory. the commissioner's statement is accurate. it deals with problems of human resources, financial resources; all you have to do is write and say, "we approve, in principle, of the declaration". ma'am, this is very important. we approve, in the main, the statement made by the commissioner in the sitting this evening.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, thank you for being with us tonight. we are aware that the time is short, so we thank you all the more for starting to respond to us. i think it is important - as my colleagues have done - to put into perspective what motivates us. what motivates us is that we have collectively fought for months for a "before the crisis" and a "after the crisis". so that in this internal market, where the expansion of financial services and banking activities has been facilitated - and we are totally in favour of all the work done by the sector across borders - common rules and supervision are brought into line. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment. we have seen that there are member states which want to keep a high hand on supervision and above all want to keep their noses out of their own little business. you are telling us, madam president, that the council has no power in appointing these officials - that is legally correct - but there are member states who are lying in wait; the commissioner also recalled that his services had to tell certain countries to send in leading figures. this parliament is therefore doing its job by trying to ensure that it is independent, has the means and the will to move forward. of course, we are aware of our responsibilities. we are the first to wish that these authorities start working since we ourselves have contributed to their birth. we have no desire to delay their work, i think, for example, the banking stress tests which are so important. but simply, as it was recalled, we will be demanding, we will take the time the night door counsel to look in detail at what you have told us, each other, and we will make a decision in our soul and conscience. i am grateful to mr barnier for his very clear words and i would ask you, madam president, not to be naive. there are considerable stakes behind all this.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the greens/efa group will be against the approval of the trade agreements in the banana sector. these agreements are aimed at liberalizing the banana market by strengthening the dominant position of the large american multinationals, which already control more than 80% of the world market. approval of such agreements would be contrary to the interests of the acp countries, the outermost regions and ecuador in particular. once again, it will be the small producers who suffer. a radical reform of international trade rules is urgently needed to guarantee food sovereignty and the development of local production for all. the financial measures proposed by the european commission to support the producers in question are insufficient. the european union must commit itself not only to carrying out an impact study of these agreements, but also to modifying its legislation accordingly in order to promote sustainable production and economies.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i do not see these agreements as positive. this is the demonstration of the hostage-taking of small banana producers, acp and ors, in the agreements that took place in 2009 in geneva and in the doha negotiations that are continuing today, agreements and negotiations wanted and imposed by the world trade organization. it is true that the fate of small producers in the acp and the outermost regions weighs very little in the balance against the powerful interests at stake, not only those of the giants of latin america but also those of the european union. the reform of the banana market, like the reform of the sugar market, is in fact the expression of the same movement towards a large world market which is inexorably advancing and which unfortunately crushes the weakest and most fragile. and the compensatory measures envisaged, madam president, will not be sufficient to prevent the ruin that is looming over small farmers in the long run, nor to encourage these acp states, which are among the poorest, to make a real effort towards development. in fact, we are being pressured to sign these agreements to save the doha negotiations. if only we could see the same eagerness on the part of the leaders to save the global agreements for environmental protection, the harmonization from above of labour rights and living standards. the people's reluctance to globalize would, in my view, be much less pronounced than it is today.
in writing. the geneva agreement on trade in bananas represents an opportunity for the emerging economies of latin america, but it also creates new competition for acp banana producers whose economic development is based mainly on the exploitation of their natural resources. we must therefore ensure that this new competition is fair, and i am therefore concerned about the bilateral agreements negotiated by peru and colombia with the eu in order to benefit from a preferential customs duty lower than that provided for in the geneva agreement. in these circumstances, i believe that the implementation of the banana accompanying measures provided for in this agreement, which will enable the acp countries to modernise this sector and face global competition, is urgent. i therefore call on the council to take a swift decision on parliament's new proposal for these acp countries to benefit from the measures announced for 2010 and i ask the commission to ensure that the reciprocal social and environmental requirements are respected by the non-acp producing and exporting countries. i believe that this is essential if all producers are to be treated equally, which is far from the case today.
in writing. the eu-wto agreement on bananas, which was reached in december 2009 and which we are ratifying today, must be accompanied by support mechanisms for our producers. the eu's lowering of tariffs on imported bananas from latin america will put several european regions such as the french overseas departments of guadeloupe and martinique, greece, portugal and the spanish canary islands in difficulty, facing market liberalisation. we will therefore have to monitor the real impact of financial assistance, which is intended to support investment, economic diversification policies and to enhance social and environmental impact. this assessment will have to tell us whether this aid is sufficient to offset the new international situation on the banana market.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament will today vote for the second time on the amendment to the development cooperation instrument providing for the introduction of accompanying measures in the banana sector for the main producers in the acp countries. these accompanying measures are due to the reduction in the tariff preferences granted to the acp countries following the conclusion, in december 2009, of the geneva agreement with the united states and latin american countries. the european union had then committed to help the acp countries with eur 190 million to help them cope with this new competition. at first reading we had amended the commission's proposal in substance and form. it is on the form that the council has not followed us and that the regulation is being reviewed today. the council refused to apply the delegated act procedure to multiannual strategy papers and indicative programmes, thus refusing to implement the progress made under the lisbon treaty. parliament has decided to react quickly and this is essential. we are sending a strong political message to the acp countries. the european parliament is on their side and is doing everything possible to ensure that the eur 190 million is released as soon as possible. but we are also sending a signal to the council. the european parliament defends its prerogatives as laid down in the treaty of lisbon. the council is now in the lead. the european union has made a commitment to the acp countries. the council must therefore take its responsibilities, and parliament has done so! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
sir, thank you for your question. i will simply say that there are international agreements which require the european union to be committed in its relations with the acp countries, and this is one of the agreements which the european union must give priority to. i mean, i never thought that 190 million could be frozen.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the unanimous position expressed today by our parliament shows how crucial the question of implementing powers is to our assembly. however, as far as the banana accompanying measures are concerned, this agreement is embarrassing for our acp banana-producing partners. one year after the commission's legitimate compensation, the funds are still not released, even though the geneva agreement is reaching its full potential. i am therefore addressing them again today, saying that it is precisely because we want to make our demands even more visible that our parliament must have a say in the strategy and general orientations of the union's external aid. we are determined not to fall into the trap set by the commission and the council. the transparency of community decisions must be at the heart of our action. that is the spirit of the treaty and the meaning of the story.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues have repeatedly stressed this. at a time when europe is discussing a common strategy for its supply of raw materials, and especially of rare earths, we cannot ignore the immense potential of the intelligent recovery of our waste. strengthening european standards to improve the functioning of collection channels, tackling the problems of leakage or illegal export of weee, or increasing our collection targets: this must be at the heart of this legislation. the main factor in the success or failure of this regulation is the consumer. citizen empowerment is crucial if we are to put in place effective legislation. and to do this, my dear karl-heinz, eco-contribution, among other systems, has proved to be a most relevant tool. the manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment obviously need to be more involved in the collection and recycling system. but we cannot clear the citizen for the waste he produces. our citizens must be actors, not spectators, of european environmental policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 october 2010 parliament adopted by 618 votes to none and 7 abstentions a decision refusing to grant discharge to the european police college for the financial year 2008. parliament's rules of procedure provide that in cases where discharge is not granted, a formal proposal to close the accounts is to be tabled at a subsequent part-session. the decision to be voted on today is therefore a technical measure, designed to close the financial year in question and not a discharge. i wanted to make that point clear.
mr president, i was not a friend of mr ben ali or mr mubarak. i did not receive them with a kiss and a pat on the shoulder, as president sarkozy did. i did not welcome their parties into the political federation i am forming with my political friends, as the socialists did, since mr gbagbo's party in côte d'ivoire, mr ben ali's party, mr mubarak's party were part of the socialist international. i am therefore even more free to say how somewhat disgusted i am by the treatment of these people today, without in any way interfering personally in the political situation in these countries. i have too much respect for the principle of non-interference. i did not invite mr ben ali to the european parliament. if you had any criticism to make of mr ben ali, you should have done it then. it's too easy to do that once those people are on the ground. throughout the middle east and the world today, it is known that the west does not support its friends and rest assured that there will not be many more candidates in this field.
in writing. i vote in favour of this report on the european instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world. it can be used for the benefit of the people. my vote does not mean that i accept the double standards, the shameful double standards, which the european union has in terms of democracy and human rights. the absence of sakharov prizes for maghreb opponents during the years of the now-defunct regimes testifies to the blind ideological character of the anti-communist eurocrats.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries, which complements european development aid. the objective of the funding is to support economic, financial, technical, cultural and academic cooperation in the partner countries and to strengthen economic links and bilateral agreements with the partner countries. in this text we also ask for better information on the measures financed, but also for involvement upstream, during the preparation of the programmes, and downstream, during their evaluation, after several years of implementation for some.
in writing. once again, brussels has bowed to non-european interests and abandoned the principles it claims to defend in terms of development, social or environmental clauses, support for its overseas territories ... no principle, no value, can stand up to the will to impose the laws of the market and free trade on all nations, regardless of the economic and social consequences. the geneva agreement will not put an end to the trade war between us and the united states, since at the same time as it was selling off the banana sector in europe and the acp countries in exchange for the cessation of the wto proceedings, the commission was negotiating even more advantageous agreements with a handful of central and south american countries. who can believe that the signatories of the geneva agreement will tolerate any less treatment for long? let us apply community preference, let us impose our social, environmental and safety standards on those who want to import into our country. let us demand reciprocity and access to foreign markets for our own products. we must stop this race to a free global trade that benefits no one, except perhaps china.
in writing. meps voted in favour of a resolution in favour of the geneva agreement, which is supposed to end the banana war. it is an agreement which in reality directly threatens all european producers, but above all french overseas producers, when, moreover, various latin american countries have already renegotiated with the aim of obtaining further reductions or even zero-rate quotas. this scandal shows that far from having pacified this issue, they have opened a new pandora's box leading to a little more of our commercial submersion on the issue of bananas but also other agricultural products. europe and france, considered the world's dairy cows, are being given a fair chance to open up our markets to the world with the criminal consent of the governments that are subject to the globalist and ultra-liberal europeanists. instead of lowering customs duties, we must instead introduce a policy of reasonable protectionism at our economic frontiers. this is one of the solutions, at the heart of the world trade war, to protect french producers and agricultural jobs, especially overseas, where the economic and social situation is already catastrophic enough.
in writing. this resolution is a rumour to make people forget that parliament can only accept or reject it. the resolution adds a cloak of submission to the united states of america and its multinational corporations, among the most cruel and brutal. it says nothing about the part related to honduras, though it is ruled by a coup regime.
in writing. i voted against this international trade agreement. the history of international trade proves that the trend towards monoculture was not a viable and sustainable model of economic development. the free trade agreements concluded in this context are, in my view, ill-balanced. moreover, in my view, the european union must respect its commitments and provide sufficient financial support to the outermost regions.
in writing. these agreements are nothing but the result of pressure exerted by the major multinational banana companies under the benevolent eye of the wto. it establishes a façade equality between banana exporting states. it is in fact a tribute to the despicable wage policies and the sabotage of democracy that multinationals like chiquita and dole are implementing in latin american countries. it doesn't say anything about their environmental crimes. it is on the side of trade partnership agreements that equality must be established, otherwise there is no equality. the european commission is currently negotiating the opposite throughout the world. the agreement is therefore a decoy, part of a harmful policy.
in writing. the geneva agreement cannot be separated from the other agreements subsequently negotiated by the commission. the day after the agreement was signed, colombia and peru received a more substantial tariff reduction, proving that the agreement did not provide legal certainty and did not end the banana war as it claimed. this differential treatment has led ecuador and guatemala to demand equal treatment, threatening further action at the wto. moreover, this agreement is seriously damaging a sector which provides many jobs both in our acp partners and in the outermost regions. the union's effort to support producers in the outermost regions was calculated on the basis of the wto agreed duties in 2006. however, neither the agreement of december 2009 nor the agreement with the andean countries were anticipated in posei. as for the support for acp producers, it is insufficient to enable them to adapt to the new tariff situation. to give its opinion in accordance with this agreement would be to support the commission in a strategy which is inconsistent with the community's efforts in favour of the overseas territories and the acp countries.
in writing. to give in to the blackmail of multinational companies and to refund customs duties retroactively is an aberration. the european union could have the decency to use the millions it has swallowed in this affair to alleviate the suffering of the overseas populations who, even though they are hit by the crisis, will be the victims of the agreements reached.
in writing. whether in economic or ecological terms, waste management has become a major issue in our consumer society. this plenary session devotes a great deal of attention to the recycling of waste in europe: with the directive on electrical and electronic waste and the resolution on waste management in campania, we have decided on a subject which is both technical and political. it will not surprise anyone to hear that we are producing more electrical and electronic waste every year. the products concerned are all those which we use in our daily lives (telephones, televisions, computers, etc.). only a third of the 9 million tonnes of such waste produced each year is currently recycled. the aim of this directive is to improve this rate, to put an end to waste, but it is also a question of strengthening the responsibility of producers. we are asking the member states to ensure that producers finance the collection and treatment of products to be recycled. consumers, who are already heavily involved in waste management, must be accompanied and assisted in this task by retailers and sellers of products.
in writing. citizens have the right to know whether the cost of a new product includes the costs of collecting, processing and disposing of the product through appropriate labelling. i regret that this provision was not adopted today by parliament and i will fight, in the course of the negotiations, to ensure that this visible eco-contribution can be maintained in the member states where it is practised. of the nine million tonnes of electrical and electronic waste produced each year in europe, only one third is properly collected and treated. it is more than urgent to promote the reuse, recycling and recovery of all this waste. member states will also have to ensure that distributors have appropriate collection and awareness-raising systems in place for certain widespread types of waste such as used mobile phones, which are currently under-recycled.
in writing. we need to have an ambitious management of electrical and electronic waste, which involves both public authorities, industry and consumers, all of whom must be held accountable. of course, to do this in the best possible way, the administrative burden on all the stakeholders will have to be reduced. i particularly support the strict rules that have been put in place against the illegal shipment of potentially hazardous waste to developing countries. the council is now in the driver's seat, and the ambitions we have set out for it seem hardly acceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which aims to improve the text currently in force. the development of the most effective possible criteria is necessary in view of the increasing production of such devices and their health and environmental impacts when not treated at the end of their life. we call for the creation of new targets for the collection, recycling and reuse of waste, some of which is of interest as a recoverable raw material. so this waste must be treated, not exported to developing countries, often in dangerous conditions. with more inspections, we hope to limit the volume of e-waste falsely declared as "reusable".
in writing. this resolution reaffirms the european commitment to the fundamental reforms sought by the tunisian people. europe has long enjoyed a special relationship with the tunisian people. it was the only international organization to introduce clauses for respect for human rights and democratic values in its relations with the tunisian state. under the neighbourhood policy, european economic aid has helped to raise the average standard of living, create jobs, train young people and give women access to responsibilities. today, europe is keen to support the tunisians in the democratic transition which is beginning.
in writing. the tunisians have turned a new page. with this resolution, the european parliament is making its contribution to what the european line should be. the european parliament firstly welcomes the courage of the tunisian people, who have led the country to a historic political turning point. the european union must now respond to the legitimate expectations of the tunisian people. europe must give priority to its relations with entities that respect fundamental freedoms. finally, since crimes have been committed, we have rightly called for the immediate implementation by the european union of the decisions to freeze the ill-gotten assets of the ben ali family and its relatives.
in writing. by supporting this resolution on tunisia, i express unequivocally my full solidarity with the tunisian people and the historic democratic revolution that they have launched. i regret that the european union's reaction has been delayed, thus giving a poor image of our diplomacy, which is still not up to its responsibilities and is barely speaking with one voice on the international stage. the union must now provide all the technical, legal and financial assistance necessary for the proper organization of free elections in tunisia. there is also an urgent need to review our neighbourhood policy with third countries and to include human rights clauses as a prerequisite for all our trade agreements.
in writing. by voting in favour of the resolution on the situation in tunisia, i wish first of all to express my support for the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and the desire to improve the social situation in the country, have brought the country to a historic political turning point. i ask the european institutions to redirect and, if necessary, increase the funds of the various financial instruments for eu-tunisia cooperation. this must be done quickly. i also urge the european union to learn from these events and to review its policy of support for democracy and human rights by making their strict respect the condition for cooperation with third countries.
in writing. how can we not support an initiative to eradicate tuberculosis by 2050, which is still responsible for 2 million deaths a year worldwide? i am surprised, however, that a text which deplores the inadequacy of health services in developing countries should overlook one of the great scandals of our time: the plundering of doctors in these countries by richer countries, which have given up training enough national doctors in the hope of saving money on their social protection. in france, for example, the numerus clausus, i.e. the number of students admitted to the first year, is about 7 000, while every year nearly 3 000 doctors with foreign diplomas obtained outside europe are allowed to practise in france. and then there are the foreign students we teach, who have french diplomas and never leave! at the same time, according to who, there is a shortage of 4.5 million health professionals in poor countries. it is also strange that the figures for the 5 500 to 6 000 cases of tuberculosis in france, where the disease had been eradicated, are reappearing in direct connection with mass immigration. i do not think that our case is unique in europe either.
in writing. the global presence of tuberculosis remains a cause for concern. but only a large-scale vaccination campaign seems to be able to remove the threat to the health of many people in developing countries. that is why i supported this resolution, to ask the member states and the european commission to invest more and more sustainably in the fight against tuberculosis, including through research and innovation. but the measures taken must not stop there: the health situation and health services must be supported, which is another aspect of the work to be carried out and which must not be ignored.
in writing. on 7 october 2010, parliament adopted by 618 votes to none against and 7 abstentions a decision refusing to grant the director of the european police college discharge for the financial year 2008. parliament's rules of procedure provide that in cases where discharge is not granted, a formal proposal to close the accounts is to be tabled at a subsequent part-session. the decision i voted for is a technical measure to close the financial year in question, not a discharge. it is speaking during this session because, in order to obtain additional documents and clarifications, in particular on accounting corrections made in july 2010 for the year 2008 and on the responsiveness of the administrative board, we wanted, together with my colleagues in budgetary control, to hear the director of cepol, the president of the administrative board and the european commission.
in writing. the plenary votes on thursday 3 february 2011 on the appointment of the chairpersons of the european supervisory authority were full of confusion. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but has not yet voted in favour of the report. in the name of parity, a fundamental value, which the greens/efa group defends, i cannot vote in favour of such appointments.
in writing. while the vote on the directive on the management of electrical and electronic waste was rather technical, the vote on the resolution on the waste crisis in campania is a highly political vote. in rejecting the epp amendments which would have distorted the text, parliament voted by a majority for italy to comply with european waste management rules! in this joint resolution by the s&d, alde, green and gue groups, we call on italy to act without delay to comply with the rules, and this requires a fight against the involvement of organised crime in what is considered a very lucrative market. the health and environmental situation in this region is already very alarming. that is why we believe that european funds should not be released until something has been done to improve the situation. it is unthinkable that we should see a europe with increasingly strict health and environmental rules develop on the one hand and areas that are exempt from any regulations on the other.
in writing. the waste crisis in campania and other regions of italy illustrates the danger of the management of our environment by companies guided by the logic of profit alone. especially when they are aided by governments that defend their interests. the abject, the wicked take advantage of the gaps opened by this system. meanwhile, the people and our entire ecosystem are drinking to the complicit silence of the eurocrats.
in writing. the dramatic situation regarding waste management in campania is not changing the progress made seems to me to be extremely minimal and this despite the protests of the citizens. given the scale of the current crisis, i urge the italian authorities to take action to provide a real solution, in compliance with the european rules in force concerning the decision to open landfills in protected areas. i share the view that european regional funds should not be released under these conditions. improving transparency to combat the involvement of organised crime and rebuilding trust with local populations is also a necessity to overcome this unprecedented crisis. we're running out of time. we have to act fast. i therefore support the european parliament's resolution on the waste crisis in campania.
mr president, there is something i do not understand. last week at the conference of presidents we said that we would have a debate on russia in march because mrs ashton would be there. then, at the conference of presidents, we said that we should have a debate on russia because mr putin was coming to visit the commission, mr barroso. according to the information i received this afternoon, mr putin will not be coming to the commission. do you or do you not have any information about this? so the debate was called last week only because mr putin was coming. but in any case, a debate on russia, with a resolution, is scheduled for march. i would now like to have some information in relation to what we discussed.
member of the commission. - thank you, mr president, for your words of welcome. i'm very happy to see you again, as i do every month. i would like to thank parliament, and mrs gebhardt in particular, for her impatience and vigilance. i can understand parliament being demanding on the proper implementation of this directive which was adopted just over four years ago. evelyne gebhardt was talking about long discussions right here. there have been others before, and others outside parliament too. i have some memories of the passionate debates on this subject, often interesting, sometimes a little irrational, and i do not forget, mrs gebhardt, the paramount role which parliament played, under your impulse, under the impulse of president malcolm harbour also, to improve the commission's original proposal and to get out of the impasse in which we were at the time, while preserving the general economy of this directive which has as its aim, and it is clearly at the heart of the challenges of the single market, to develop growth and employment since it is clear today, ladies and gentlemen, that nine out of every ten new jobs created in the european economy are in the service economy. i can say that i would like to see new jobs created in the industrial sector and that naturally raises further questions about the european policies we should encourage in order to maintain an industrial production base. but services are a source of growth and employment. with mrs gebhardt's new report, parliament is once again confirming its commitment to this matter, and mrs gebhardt herself is proving that she has a way with words, if i may say so. i am personally pleased this time about the follow-up of the transposition and the proper implementation of this directive, which is a key condition for the completion of the internal market in services. as i speak to you, four years after the adoption of this directive, it has already brought tangible successes. we have received, ladies and gentlemen, more than a thousand notifications of changes in legislation in the member states. sometimes it is global texts or frameworks which themselves introduce sectoral changes within each country or even region. in fact, several thousand changes in national and even regional legislation have already been initiated under the impetus of this directive. we believe that there is still a lot of potential and we must therefore move forward. mrs gebhardt mentioned a very important problem, which is that of one of the tools of the directive on one-stop-shop services. i fully agree with the parliament's ambitious approach to making these counters real administrative portals that allow companies to do all their business online, including, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the scope of the services directive. with this in mind, we are working with the member states on the cross-border interoperability of electronic signatures. i will probably have a text to submit to you before the end of the year on electronic signatures and the cross-border interoperability of electronic identities and documents. i also share your view on the importance of providing one-stop shops which are truly multilingual, a key to their added value, so that people can address them in their own language and receive, even across borders, a reply in their own language, and thus develop the appropriation of this tool which is the one-stop shop, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. one of the keys to facilitating this administrative cooperation and developing the one-stop shop as you wish is that we develop at the same time - we will perhaps talk about this later about the patent - the quality of electronic translations. i am personally concerned, within the college, with my colleagues responsible for these various programmes, because they are spread over several directorates-general, to intensify the research and development of electronic programmes to have as soon as possible for patenting, and for other uses, such as one-stop shops, or as imi the highest and most sophisticated translation qualities. it will be a great change for all of us here who have to work in more than 23 languages to be able to have impeccable translation quality thanks to these computer and electronic programs. i also share parliament's view that national civil servants should be trained to give them, if they do not already have one, a genuine culture of administrative cooperation. mrs gebhardt, we are also pursuing the use of imi. today - i recently did a review on this topic - we have almost 5,000 european administrations that are registered in imi, and my goal is very simple, it is to develop imi as a kind of facebook - if i can use this expression - administrative with ease of translation. ladies and gentlemen, there are three tools which are very important in my portfolio for successfully bringing europe closer to the citizens and bringing europe closer to small and mediumsized enterprises: the one-stop shops, imi and solvit. so you can count on me, i'll even work specifically on these three tools to give them the means, including translation but not only, and check how they are implemented in each country. moreover, as i promised you - i am not just telling you things here, i am also going to tell you things in each of the capitals - i visit a european capital every week, and in each of these capitals i hold a workshop with the national officials responsible for implementing our directives: vocational qualifications, the services directive or public procurement. and i always check how and by what means these tools are implemented and work: the one-stop shop, the solvit centre or imi. so i was in luxembourg last week, i will be in slovenia this week, to do this verification with the officials i need to succeed in making the internal market work properly. so we will continue to work with the member states in this spirit, to check, beyond mere transposition, that the services directive is being properly implemented and, depending on the debate we are going to have now, i remain available to provide further more specific answers to parliament on the follow-up of the implementation of this services directive.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a review of the implementation of the services directive which was drafted and adopted by this parliament in 2006. it's still way too early for that. many states have not yet fully and correctly transposed it. that is precisely the reason for this own-initiative report. first, to underline the importance, both economic and social, of this opening up of the service sector in europe. as you said, commissioner, the activities covered represent 40% of gdp and employment in the european union, and the unlocked development potential is estimated to be between 0.6% and 1.5% of gdp. as you said earlier, commissioner, 9 out of 10 jobs, so a real economic impact. secondly, emphasis on the basic elements of transposition. i would like to stress two points which you yourself have stressed, mrs gebhardt. one-way ticket sales first. of course, we must remember that our aim is to facilitate the provision of services throughout europe. in practice, entrepreneurs wishing to set up a business abroad or to provide crossborder services must be able to contact a single point of contact who will explain all the necessary steps for their establishment in their own language. these one-stop shops are the key to the success of the services directive. they must be easily accessible, both physically and electronically, as already mentioned, and be efficient and interoperable. it is important not to create an administrative burden for our entrepreneurs, who are mostly smes. secondly, the scope of the directive. the directive excluded a number of areas from its scope because of their specificities. this is particularly the case for non-economic services of general interest, whereas economic gis are covered a priori. all this, in my view, lacks legal clarity and we must monitor carefully how the member states apply these rules. i believe that we must finally have a real political debate at european level on what we mean by services of general interest and the rules we wish to apply to them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. when it was adopted in 2006, thanks to the compromise work carried out under the responsibility of evelyn gebhardt, whom i congratulate, parliament succeeded in adopting a text reconciling the need to boost the internal market in services as a potential source of growth and job creation with respect for social rights, labour law and the specific features of services of general interest. in order to maintain this delicate balance, it was essential that transposition be as accurate as possible, which created some problems for many member states, such as the difficulties in setting up the single information points or the mutual evaluation process. at the moment, i am puzzled and concerned by the very minority choice made by france, which leads to a fragmentation of the provisions in many laws and decrees. i also regret the very restrictive interpretation of the concept of mandatory care which will create legal uncertainty for social services for young children or people with disabilities, even though the directive provides for the possibility of derogations and exclusions. parliament is playing and will play its full part in monitoring the successful implementation of this directive, which is key to a single market that creates jobs, is closer to the citizens and makes europe a positive and not a negative everyday experience. i therefore call on the member states and the commission to step up their efforts to ensure that the process is fully transparent for european citizens. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, mrs gebhardt, in 2006 my group, the green group, voted against the services directive, and today the evaluation report on the implementation of this services directive, formerly known as the bolkestein directive, is also not satisfactory. the green group will therefore vote against this report. i would like to make it clear, mrs gebhardt, that you have done your best to find the best compromise, but i think that unfortunately there are red lines in this report which have been crossed and which mean that we cannot vote in favour of it. i would also like to say that you were very careful to make it clear that there should be no mixing of responsibilities, and i certainly do not want to mix responsibilities between what is the responsibility of the member states and what is the responsibility of the european level. if france, for example, has transposed the services directive by choosing to include day nurseries when the vast majority of other countries have chosen the opposite, that is the responsibility of the french government and not of the european union. so it is not at all to criticise the way in which the directive has been transposed in france that the green group is voting against this report today. it's for two key points. the first point is that we have repeatedly asked in the discussions for a study to be carried out in the member states on the impact of the first transpositions of the services directive on the quality of jobs and services. unfortunately, this study of the impact on the quality of jobs and services could not be included in the report. an impact study on the cost to public administrations was also requested. every time we want to take action in terms of regulating financial markets, for example, we are told that it will have a monstrous cost. there is a very significant cost to public administrations in times of budgetary stress, and no one wants to assess this cost to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the services directive. my last point will be a question to commissioner barnier. in this report, unfortunately, we have not been able to get the european commission to finally take note of article 14 of the lisbon treaty in order to present a proposal for a directive on public services. can you tell us when the commission will finally take responsibility for this?
mr president, commissioner, there is a lot of talk tonight about technical issues relating to the implementation of the services directive, but i think it would be much more useful if we took a real stocktaking together of the application of the services directive. why not admit today, as the global crisis unfolds, that all deregulation is aggravating the crisis and degrading services to citizens, and this everywhere, in the european union and in the world? mr barnier, you said earlier that there had been irrational debates about this directive. but you are probably aware that there is a labour dispute in france at the moment in a transport company because, in the name of the principle of the country of origin, polish lorry drivers are being put in competition with french lorry drivers. on the other hand, services of general interest are being broken up or privatized everywhere. now we want to extend the bolkestein directive even further with the single permit directive, which you want to force through in this parliament, while the committee on employment has not been able to give its opinion! you are now going to put european workers in competition with each other, but also with immigrant workers. the situation of social services of general interest is still unclear. health, housing, local authorities, early childhood cannot be commodified. it would therefore be useful to have real studies of the impact of the application of this directive in terms of employment, life in the regions and also consumer prices, since everyone can see that energy prices, like those of transport, keep rising when we were told that competition would bring them down.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i understand that mankind has been asking questions about life and death since the beginning of time. it is a pity that the european union has not overcome the difficulties of the community patent since the 1970s. first of all, i would like to commend mr lehne's work and perseverance in this undertaking and thank him for the attention he has given to our spanish and italian colleagues. i too have listened to their arguments and i understand them perfectly well, except that today we are not deciding a language issue. the european commission's proposal of 1 july 2010 is based on the language regime of the european patent office, which has proven its effectiveness. but again, this language debate is not on the agenda. the aim now is to enable the 25 member states which so wish to move forward by establishing enhanced cooperation. today, it is a question of meeting the demands of european companies, which pay 11 times more for their patents than american companies. today we must show that the european parliament has matured enough to move beyond petty quarrels. we'll have plenty of time to debate the delicate political choices that lie ahead. but let us stop stomping around and go forward by supporting mr lehne's recommendation in this long, long march towards the community patent.
mr president, at a time when we are experiencing the most serious financial crisis the world has known since 1929, europe cannot stand idly by and the regulation of the international financial system is not a right-wing, left-wing or even centre-left issue, but a public issue of global concern, and i am firmly convinced that europe must play a leading role, as it did in particular last march when it invited the commission and the member states to look into the question of taxation of financial activities at international level. now, almost a year later, we must step up our efforts and do everything we can to ensure that europe is a source of inspiration and a force for proposals. that is why i call on the european parliament to take a strong and aggressive common position in favour of the introduction of a tax on financial activities at world level. with the french presidency of the g20, which has made global financial regulation a priority, europe has a unique opportunity to be at the forefront of a humanistic vision in the face of a world in perpetual change. with such a taxation, we will have a practical, useful and fair instrument. europe must be involved and so must the european parliament.
mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on obtaining this agreement. it was a difficult agreement to reach, as we can see from our debates. i think we can all agree on what is being said. yes, of course, there is climate change, but when it comes to commercial vehicles, these are vehicles that we don't buy for driving pleasure or for passion, they are vehicles that we use as a work tool, which makes this target of 147 grams of co2 for 2020 a fair balance. i would have preferred even a little more, but at least it seems to me a more balanced proposal than the one originally put forward by the commission, which would have led to a strong push through the technological limits for manufacturers with a strong impact on the cost of innovation on the wallet of the final consumer, whom we did not want to punish, given that he is living through a particularly exceptional period of crisis. i would like to stress that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the issue of the safety of vehicles. so this is really going in the right direction. i also understand there are penalties. i am pleased that we have been able to reach an agreement on penalties which are the same as those introduced for private cars. that is why i shall be very pleased to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, commissioner, i shall vote against the final compromise. the negotiations were terrible and this vote is for me a decision imposed by the reality of the balance of power in parliament and the council. the major producer states, backed by a majority of meps who are sensitive to industry's arguments, have succeeded in torpedoing the definition of an ambitious emission reduction target. i would remind you that the commission proposed a target of 135 grams per kilometre by 2020. it is therefore regrettable that parliament is less ambitious than the commission. the automobile industry, which has fought against this text, and we have just seen some more examples of this, has clearly not realised that it has a vested interest in being at the forefront of reducing emissions, especially since the study by the transport and environment association last november showed that technological solutions exist. it notes that car manufacturers in europe reduced co2 emissions from passenger cars by between 2% and 10% in 2009, with a japanese manufacturer almost reaching its target six years ahead of schedule. i will vote for this compromise because we risk losing this achievement, however modest, in a second reading, but i would like to stress that we are not doing the industry a favour by defending the status quo and that as far as the public authorities are concerned, they are doing the opposite of their role by not promoting innovation.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his position and i note that parliament is in the right position between a commission which was very ambitious, a council which was, as usual, cautious, between climate-sceptics and climate-critics, between the friends of industry and the defenders of the environment, a balanced position which therefore remains ambitious since the target of 147 g in 2020 will give industry both the time to make the technological leap and the incentive to be efficient. the extension of the modification period until 2018 is positive and will make research and production of clean vehicles more attractive. two final remarks. i am of course glad that we have gone through the first reading and i did not quite understand what our colleague said earlier that he preferred the second reading. and secondly, like mr el khadraoui, i regret the absence of speed limits, which means that we will continue to be overtaken on the motorways by the only vehicles which no longer respect the limit, namely light commercial vehicles.
mr president, madam commissioner, i will be brief. i shall vote for this text because i think that this compromise is moving in the right direction and at the same time i regret that this compromise did not go as far as mrs hedegaard's proposal. so i would now like you to tell us, after this debate and before the vote in a few hours, what procedure you will adopt over the next two years since a reassessment is due to take place in 2013 which will allow us, quickly, as our rapporteur for the group, matthias groote, also wished, to go further in this fight to allow less pollution from these light commercial vehicles. that is the question i am asking you, madam commissioner, and i know the tenacity you will show in order to enable us to move forward despite this industrial lobbying which, as a number of my colleagues have pointed out, does not seem to me to be appropriate.
mr president, our parliament believes that it can teach russia lessons in the field of human rights. he'd better sweep his own door, the european union's. mr tannock was talking, for example, about mr julian assange, dissident publicist, founder of the wikileaks website, whose actions i do not share. he has been detained for weeks in britain following a completely odious and ridiculous extradition request from sweden, which could well be a step towards his extradition to the united states. indeed, mr assange is accused of rape by two young women, one of whom actually complains of a condom breakage during consensual sex, the other of being caught in his sleep after a first consensual sex. who are we kidding? obviously, if these two young women did not want to be raped, in quotes, by mr. assange, they should not have snuck naked into his bed! it's not an insult they've suffered, it's a tribute. this example shows how extreme freedom... (the president takes the floor from the speaker but the speaker continues off the microphone)
madam president, i voted in favour of the report by mr lehne authorizing the european parliament to give its consent to enhanced cooperation for the creation of a unitary patent in the european union. i was gonna say something. twenty years of struggle to achieve a result, a beginning of concrete achievements for european companies, both our smes and our large companies, which have been waiting for a long time to have this major instrument for their competitiveness and development. by giving this authorization to enhanced cooperation, the european parliament is showing its interest in this particular procedure for enhanced cooperation, which i would remind you is the second time it has been applied, but it is also sending a very positive and very concrete signal for innovation and the competitiveness of our companies. as has been said, 25 of the 27 member states are part of this enhanced cooperation procedure for the creation of a unitary patent for the european union. i was aware of the difficulties that may still exist for some of our member states, but let us go ahead and set an example, that is what the business world expects.
in writing. south africa is a developing country in all areas with which the european union intends to maintain a special relationship. following the positive recommendation of the committee on development and the positive opinion of the committee on international trade, i have supported the conclusion of this agreement which will strengthen our cooperation with that country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renewal of the eu-south africa cooperation agreement as revised in 2009, as it introduces a new dimension in cooperation between the european union and south africa. the original 1999 agreement provided for trade cooperation, support for south africa in its economic and social transition process, economic integration of the country into southern africa and development cooperation. today, the agreement covers the following areas: combating poverty, effective development aid, implementing the mdgs, fighting for security, combating weapons of mass destruction and combating terrorism. these are strategic areas of cooperation which seem to me to be important in view of the european union's active cooperation with south africa and its influence in the southern african region.
in writing. this agreement takes place in a particular context which the rapporteur seems to overlook. the european commission is exerting unprecedented pressure on the countries of southern africa, and in particular on south africa, to conclude harmful economic partnership agreements. the mention of the epc negotiations and the suspension of all trade negotiations in favour of the epc are the very hallmark of this blackmail. i am voting against this report, which validates the barroso commission's draft agreement instead of denouncing it.
in writing. as the european union has exclusive competence for certain aspects of external policy in the field of aviation, it was legally necessary to replace a dozen bilateral agreements concluded by the member states with the federative republic of brazil with agreements negotiated and concluded by the european union. following an agreement by the council of the european union in 2003, the european commission negotiated the agreement to which i have decided to give my support today. the latter will pave the way for a comprehensive air services agreement with brazil, based on a combination of gradual market opening with cooperation and regulatory convergence. the future agreement will ensure better services for passengers and strengthen the position of european airlines.
in writing. a micro-state between switzerland and austria, liechtenstein covers 160km2 and has a population of 35 000. liechtenstein is not a member of the european union but is associated with it within the european economic area (eea). it applies almost all eu legislation and has applied to join the schengen area of free movement of persons. given the tradition of cooperation between the european union and liechtenstein and the absence of threats linked to the enlargement of the schengen area to liechtenstein, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it was not a question of taking stock of the implementation of the services directive adopted by parliament in 2006, as it is still far too early for that. the aim was to underline the importance, both economic and social, of this opening up of the services sector in europe (activities covered represent 40% of gdp and jobs in the european union, and the potential for development is estimated to be between 0.6 and 1.5% of gdp) but also to emphasise the fundamental elements of transposition. first, the one-stop shops. their aim is to facilitate the provision of services throughout europe. in practice, entrepreneurs wishing to set up a business abroad or to provide crossborder services must be able to contact a single point of contact who will explain all the steps required for their establishment. these one-stop shops are the key to the success of the services directive! secondly, the scope of the directive: i think we need to have a real political debate at european level about what we mean by services of general interest and the rules we want to apply to them.
in writing. the application of the services directive is, in my view, an opportunity to highlight the shortcomings, particularly in relation to its scope. in my opinion on behalf of the committee on employment, i recalled the legal uncertainty that exists today around services of general interest (sigs) and the absolute need to take account of their specific nature. while there is unanimity on the need for clarification of the concepts (gis, economic and non-economic, social services), there is still a strong division in parliament on the means of achieving this. i have advocated the need for a clear legal framework, if necessary by means of a framework directive. i regret that this is not in the final text, but i congratulate mrs gebhardt, who has managed to mention these problems in her imco report, which deals mainly with mutual evaluation and one-stop shops. paragraph 45 refers to the need for a legislative framework, albeit sectoral, and recalls the commitment made by mr barnier in his recent communication to make proposals on gis in 2011. i therefore expect concrete measures to be taken which will finally be able to provide both a response to service providers and local and regional authorities, and recognition of the essential role these services play in social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. parliament votes on the implementation of the services directive, which we were promised to withdraw when it was still called bolkestein. the european parliament is now judging whether the member states have transposed the directive correctly or not. services account for 40% of gdp and employment in the european union with major differences between member states. the services directive proposes 'advances' and legal standardisations which will be to the detriment of the french and which will have the consequence of levelling down social standards. the protection of markets and workers, which contribute to the wealth of our country and our continent, is imperative and the european union, as always, refuses to do so.
in writing. the bolkestein directive was delayed because member states took too long to transpose it and applied it poorly. it is true that in france it has only been partially transposed into national law. and for good reason! to avoid a public debate, and thus a new wave of protests, mr sarkozy's government deliberately decided not to use a framework law but to introduce the principles of the directive in all relevant texts. in fact, there is only one principle: total and absolute freedom of establishment and provision of services! the fragmentation of the legislative changes has facilitated the opacity of the process. the scope of the text is still unclear: some social services, which are supposed to be excluded, are in fact covered by the directive. those who are actually excluded today are only suspended: every three years the commission can propose to eliminate the exemptions. and as for the most scandalous clause in the text, the principle of the country of origin, although it has been formally abolished, it is being reintroduced through the possibilities opened up by the directive on the posting of workers and the regulation on the law applicable to contractual obligations.
in writing. the services directive, adopted in 2006 and scheduled for transposition into national law by 28 december 2009, continues to raise questions in the member states and in the local authorities directly concerned by it. the own-initiative report by mrs e. gebhardt, which provides an initial assessment of its implementation, thus points out some of these difficulties, in particular the uncertainty concerning social services and services of general economic interest (what definition? which areas are concerned?), and the lack of transparency of the transposition process in some member states. moreover, it is clear that france is characterized by a problematic opacity and rigidity in the implementation of this directive, with a proliferation of decrees and implementing laws and a restrictive interpretation of the exemptions provided for in the directive, which raises uncertainty about the future of certain services, such as those for early childhood care and for disabled people. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. four years after the adoption of the services directive, the european parliament was this week voting on the implementation of the directive in the member states. the european parliament has criticised the lack of information, the blocking of crossborder services, unnecessary administrative burdens, etc. in the report we have adopted, which i voted in favour of. the member states must make progress in implementing this directive in order to improve and facilitate the provision of crossborder services. i would also like to stress the difficult question of the scope of the directive, which excludes a number of areas such as services of general interest which are not economic in nature or certain services (social, childcare, personal assistance, etc.) when they are provided by providers mandated by the state. two concepts, that of 'non-economic service of general interest' and that of 'mandate' are not clearly defined and/or interpreted differently in the member states, which leads to a lack of legal clarity which i deeply regret.
in writing. the only positive contribution of this text is the call on the member states to "ensure greater transparency" on the transposition of this so-called "services" directive. the french government is ignoring it! the report by a social democrat mep confirms the neoliberal dictate of this harmful directive and even allows itself to call to order those member states which 'lack ambition' in its implementation. worse still, this parliament admits that it is incapable of judging the consequences of its implementation! that's probably why there's no roll call. the names of those responsible will not be known. i vote against it.
in writing. the alignment of passenger rights in bus and coach transport with rail and air transport is clearly a good idea. i have, however, abstained because i do not think the text goes far enough. the limitation of the threshold for all compensation in the event of major problems to 250 kilometres is tantamount to the exclusion of three countries from the european union. however, it was widely possible to provide for a simple derogation mechanism for the entities concerned. more generally, bus and coach users remain, on the whole, more modest users. it would have been appropriate, given the constant talk about mobility, to send them a signal on journeys much shorter than 250 kilometres.
in writing. after years of negotiation, the adoption of this text marks a significant step forward for passenger rights in europe, and in particular for disabled passengers and persons with reduced mobility. with the adoption of this regulation (concerning bus and coach travel), all modes of transport in the european union are now covered by legislation which offers rights and guarantees to passengers if, for example, their journey is cancelled or delayed, or if their luggage is lost, etc. however, i regret that this regulation applies only from 250 km upwards, thus excluding three member states of the european union (luxembourg, malta and cyprus) and many routes such as brussels-amsterdam or budapest-vienna. finally, i also regret the lack of flexibility for 'travel' in cross-border areas, which is a hindrance to the mobility of europeans. in other words, it is a much less ambitious text than the one we had advocated in the conciliation committee a few months ago and much less ambitious than what i would have wished for passengers in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text not only because it aims to strengthen the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport in terms of compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, but also because it underlines the principle of non-discrimination for people with reduced mobility, who must also have real access to these modes of transport, which now account for 10% of the land transport of passengers in europe. it is also welcome that passenger rights are now protected in all modes of transport.
in writing. i am pleased that the negotiations between parliament and the member states have finally led to the adoption of a regulation guaranteeing enhanced rights for passengers travelling by bus and coach. it fills a gap in passenger rights legislation - there were no european rules on this subject until now, unlike in the air or rail transport sectors. the text provides for the introduction of a number of compensatory measures: snacks and refreshments for delays of more than 1h30; the cost of an overnight stay in the event of a break in the journey, an accident or a delay requiring an overnight stay; the maximum reimbursement is at least eur 1200 in the event of loss of or damage to checked baggage. in addition, specific rights are granted to disabled passengers: in particular the obligation for airlines to provide assistance to disabled passengers subject to having informed them of their needs 36 hours in advance and compensation or reimbursement for any damage or loss of specialised equipment. this regulation will apply to all scheduled, national or cross-border long-distance services (250 km and above) from spring 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a coherent regulation on the rights of passengers in public road transport. the commission will therefore be taking concrete measures to strengthen legal certainty, rights and information for bus and coach passengers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the vote is part of the european union's political will to bring about common legislation for users of all modes of transport. i also welcome the implementation of measures for disabled people and people with reduced mobility, which will facilitate their access to road transport. this decision helps to remove obstacles to the free movement of travellers within the european area. finally, a balance was struck by proposing flexible legislation so that road transport companies, often of modest size, would not be penalised. these new measures, in my view, make it possible to encourage a mode of transport which is accessible to the greatest number of people, particularly in the tourist sector.
in writing. the idea is noble: reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles. but what is presented to us as a realistic compromise with the council is in fact a discount agreement: the approved text limits the average level of co2 emissions for new light commercial vehicles to 175 g/km, while the long-term objective is 147 g/km. it will not be reached until 2020 at the latest. it's not enough! the european commission proposed a limit of 135 g/km, a more ambitious proposal and just as realistic! i voted against this text because i regret that we have not reached a compromise which is closer to the european commission's proposal. improving energy efficiency and managing innovation are now priorities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the adoption of the commission proposal for a regulation laying down emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles is, in my view, above all a bet on the future. the compromise reached on limiting average co2 emissions to 147 g/km by 2020 does not meet the initial ambitions of my socialist colleagues in the envi committee, who, supported by the greens/efa and the gue/ngl, had advocated a much more ambitious target (135 g/km). however, behind this "battle of numbers" there is a balance to be found between environmental issues which are recognized by all, and social and industrial requirements which must not be forgotten. that is why i think it is appropriate to make the adoption of the compromise conditional on the revision of the regulation by january 2013 and the feasibility study and re-evaluation of the objectives: not only will this review make it possible to return to this subject quickly and go further in the fight against motor vehicle pollution, but it will also be an opportunity to address the question of community research and innovation in the field of road transport. the date is set for 2012!
in writing. to meet the european union's ambitious objectives on sustainable development and the fight against climate change, it is important for the european union to act in the automotive sector. in this respect, the adoption of this text is a further step towards the manufacture of less polluting vehicles. however, i very much regret the lack of ambition in this regulation for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. so, of course, if i voted for this resolution, i voted for the original proposal of the european commission, namely a target of 135 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2014 and 120 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020 (instead of what was finally adopted: 175 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2014 and 147 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020). today, the technology exists to achieve much lower thresholds, and much faster than the targets set in this text.
in writing. europe is moving forward... thanks to the lisbon treaty, it is now possible for a group of countries that want to move forward together on a specific issue to do so, even if some are not interested. this is already the case with regard to the rules applicable to the divorce of binational couples. this is called enhanced cooperation ... i wanted the same to be true for the protection of european innovations and for closer cooperation to be implemented to create a european patent. while the cost of patent protection for inventions is ten times higher in europe than in the united states, partly because of translation costs, 25 of the 27 member states want to create a european patent together, which is less expensive because it is unitary. the unitary patent will be filed in french, english or german and will protect our inventions in the 25 countries concerned... and this at affordable prices! even if spain and italy are not in favour of such a system for linguistic reasons, it is essential that the 25 states concerned move forward together on this subject. as this is a major step forward for the competitiveness of european industry, i voted in favour of this procedure.
in writing. for many years, the european economy has been hampered by the absence of a competitive community patent in relation to other major world powers. for some 15 years now, the european commission has been proposing the creation of a single european patent. finally, thanks to the 'enhanced cooperation' procedure, which allows several member states to cooperate in a field when a legislative initiative is blocked, a step has been taken in this direction. i therefore voted enthusiastically in favour of this text, which opens up the procedure for enhanced cooperation to create a community patent system. this is a major step forward for all european companies, for all smes, which have been waiting for this instrument for a long time, an indispensable instrument for innovation, research and development and competitiveness in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which was to authorize enhanced cooperation for the creation of a european patent. in december 2010, 12 member states, including france, had wanted to use an enhanced cooperation procedure after the 27 had disagreed on the establishment of a community patent system due to linguistic differences. all member states eventually decided to participate, except italy and spain. i hope that these two countries can join the initiative at any time. our researchers and companies will finally be able to start playing on a par with the us and asia in terms of innovation, because it is now 11 times more expensive to patent in the eu than in the us.
in writing. i abstain on this text. i do not mean to oppose the sovereign right of the member states to conclude enhanced cooperation agreements with each other, including on patents, but we are not given any guarantees as to the environmental and health standards which will govern the validation of such patents, particularly as regards gmos. until the necessary requirements for the protection of the public health of citizens are met, i will not support this type of agreement.
in writing. as regards the belet report, which calls in particular for parliament to become a co-legislator on health protection in the event of radioactive contamination of food, i could not vote in favour of a text which does not firmly reject the current doses proposed by the commission. the maximum contamination values proposed by the commission and in force since 1987 are far too high. studies show that from low doses, children have serious cardiovascular and endocrine problems. the maximum doses proposed would cause an unacceptable increase in the number of cancers. in addition, since there is no mechanism in place for compensating farmers in the event of contamination above the permitted levels, the commission must absolutely propose a compensation mechanism that meets the polluter pays principle.
in writing. this report and the environmental disasters it claims to be addressing remind us of the urgency of moving away from nuclear power. but there is no mention of nuclear power being phased out. that is the first shortcoming of this text: the amendment would have been worthwhile. the text also intends to give the commission full power to put in place the necessary safety measures in the event of a nuclear disaster. the capacity of state governments in this area is made optional. they are elected by the people! it is inconceivable that such a delegation of power should be granted to the irresponsible commission, especially when it comes to public health. i vote against it.
mr president, i should like to begin by mentioning the scandal of the so-called simplified, but in reality very bad, procedure for amending the treaty. there is no real debate and, as usual, no direct consultation of the people. yet, the subject is not trivial. the aim is to make the european financial stability fund sustainable. what is this fund if not the possibility of creating a european debt, which would eventually be borne by countries already over-indebted and which might be obliged to repay it before they repay their own debts? it is the financial policy of the sapper camember, the soldier who is the subject of a comic book in france, who is ordered to plug the hole in the barracks yard and, in order to do so, creates another one right next to it. in exchange for germany's participation, we will be entitled to a so-called competitiveness pact, the details of which, according to a note from the french government's secretariat-general for european affairs, are not known. in fact, they're too happy. it will be a real cure for austerity, a curative measure, a greater uniformity of budgetary policies. it is a question of extending convergence, and i quote, to all policies which have an impact on competitiveness, even if they are in principle within national competence. in short, it is the transposition of german policies to the whole euro area that mr sarkozy is so dreaming of. none of this is acceptable, nor is the alternative of a homogeneous european sovereign debt market with an increase in the european budget and the creation of a specific tax to feed it. we have to do something else.
mr president, i think it is always useful to recall a number of commitments, in particular that of october 2008, through the european pact on immigration and asylum, which announced that the time had come to take new initiatives to complete the establishment of the common european asylum system and thus to offer a higher level of protection within the european union. more than two years after that promise, the commission's proposals are on the negotiating table. it is clear, however, that this european asylum system and the process of harmonization are a little difficult to see. the recent decision of the european court of human rights is, in my view, an important turning point. it is, of course, a sign of the failings of the greek asylum system, but it also sends a strong message as greece embarks on reforming its asylum system and, at the same time, on other types of initiatives. but beyond a particular situation, it is the european asylum system as a whole that this decision calls into question more generally, in particular on one of its foundations, which is the dublin regulation and its starting postulate, according to which national asylum systems are equivalent within the union. this decision demonstrates how, paradoxically, the common european asylum system has created a kind of injustice both for asylum seekers and for member states. after this decision, clear action is needed immediately. pending the functioning of the greek asylum system, states should suspend the return of asylum seekers to greece and use the sovereignty clause of the same regulation which allows them to take charge of the examination of an application. the echr ruling also sends a signal to all stakeholders. i believe that this decision should act as a catalyst in the process of harmonisation and reworking, in particular of the dublin regulation. firstly, of course, there is the mechanism for suspending transfers which i have just mentioned and which is being proposed by the commission. the echr judgment sheds new light on this mechanism on the one hand and on intra-european solidarity on the other. the judgment should be able to revive the discussion on the need for a suspension mechanism, as i said, under clearly defined conditions. secondly, beyond this mechanism, the judgment should also serve as a lever, at least i hope so, to support, in the course of the negotiations, the other amendments to the regulation which are being proposed by the commission and, amongst others, those on the guarantees granted in this arrangement. finally, the echr judgment should make it possible to start thinking about the concept of vulnerability inherent in the situation of asylum seekers and make it necessary to introduce a suspensive remedy for these applicants under a transfer decision, under the dublin regulation. today, many flashing lights are on red; they tell us that it is time to reform this regulation and to build a genuine common asylum system based on a solidarity and responsible approach.
mr president, i will be very brief because the debate has been very intense and i feel that, apart from a few extremes, we share the same concern. i would like to ask the commissioner how she intends to counter the iconoclastic idea of erecting a wall between turkey and greece, even if this is due to the very high pressure that this country is under and even if, as my colleagues have said, the conditions are particularly difficult for those in the detention centres. even if the member states are free to imagine what they can build, even if it is a wall, even if it is an unrealistic solution, we europeans are particularly challenged both in a conjunctural way, with what is happening on the island of lampedusa and as a result of the jurisprudence of the european court of human rights, and in a structural way, with the situation in the southern countries. the time has therefore come to urgently review the dublin regulation in order to share, in a spirit of solidarity and humanity, the situations throughout europe, and we can only do this by building a genuine european right to asylum, which is becoming more urgent than ever.
yes, he was the penultimate speaker. i wanted to ask our colleague how he came to believe that the people on lampedusa were islamists and thugs, whether he had personal information to support this claim or whether it was a product of his own fantasies.
in writing. the sudden arrival of thousands of migrants on the small italian island of lampedusa is an exceptional event. but this brings us back to a problem that affects all europeans. in the meantime, it is important that european solidarity works. i agree with you, commissioner, when you call on the member states to provide emergency aid to italy, both in terms of material and financial aid. in these situations, the countries of arrival are very often not the final destination of the migrants' journey. the reception centres are often overcrowded and there is sometimes severe tension in the waiting areas. we have already made great strides in the fight against illegal immigration and in regulating flows. however, in a union where internal borders have virtually disappeared, europe must provide itself with the means to achieve its ambitions in the long term. it must have a genuine immigration policy, open a constructive dialogue with the countries of origin and strengthen the missions of the european agency frontex.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the europe of the stability pact and tomorrow of the competitiveness pact, pension reform is in the crosshairs. how can pensions be saved when the european union requires that member states, which are currently in deficit, have balanced budgets by 2013? your solution is to raise the retirement age to 67 and to reform the pension systems in a profound way to reduce the benefits of the insured. the report is not wrong, however, since it calls for a guarantee of a minimum pension which you are forcing us to guarantee to foreigners who come to us and have never paid contributions. in addition, the accounting of direct public pension liabilities, advocated in this report, will increase the pressure on member states to develop capitalised pension fund systems, the risks of which are obviously high. pension schemes are the responsibility of the member states. yet, against the will of the people, you are imposing an unprecedented budgetary austerity. the european workers, civil servants and pensioners will be the adjustment variable to save the euro and your ultra-liberal europe.
madam president, commissioner, we are in a policy debate here and the european parliament wanted to send you a message. but in the meantime, the world is changing and the question of pensions is being raised in a different way. i would of course like to mention the reference to a uniform retirement age at 67 at european level in what was a draft competitiveness pact. we can see that if we build social europe on this basis, we will build it against the people and that is not what we want. in the oomen-ruijten report we are making a number of other points, and i ask you, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, to take this into account when you draw up the commission's position on a white paper on the gender dimension, which you have not sufficiently taken into account. we also suggest that the best way to solve the pension problem is to promote employment and that instead of focusing on the legal retirement age, we should take account of the actual age. but the oomen-ruijten report contains an indication which we french socialists find problematic and on which we cannot agree. you will understand that for us the idea that the increase in life expectancy should automatically index the legal retirement age is a regression in terms of social rights which we cannot support. finally, let me say one last thing: without social dialogue, without involving the social partners in the whole of this negotiation, we will be going up against the wall.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, marisa matias, on the work she has done, and the council and the commission, as we have finally reached agreement on this particularly important directive on the fight against organised crime, which unfortunately is counterfeiting of medicines. too many falsified medicines, 34 million counterfeit medicines seized in the european union in 2008, a 380 percent increase, that's something colossal; more than 50% of online sales are counterfeit medicines. this is a real scourge that affects all our fellow citizens. with this directive, we have a breakthrough. i consider this to be just a step because, unfortunately, we have not gone far enough. we should have been able to move faster. nevertheless, it is a step with increased inspections of manufacturers of active ingredients. this is particularly important. we demand security, which requires us to identify the responsibilities of everyone from one end of the process to the other: the manufacturers, the wholesalers, the parallel importers, the brokers and the distributors. security also requires us to ensure that every prescription drug can be traced. and now i wish we had gone further. and beyond the security features that guarantee the authenticity, the identification of each package, security also requires the limitation of the handling of the repackaging of the boxes, which passes into the hands of the parallel importers. we've discussed all this a lot. this is important because today we are dealing with a real public health problem. it is important that even pharmacists can obtain their supplies from quality-assured channels. i agree with you, commissioner, when you say that we must be vigilant because we have to put all this security in place. but i don't think anything is over. we really have to control what is going to be applied from this directive.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to express my satisfaction with this text, but also a request and a point on which we must be vigilant. i am glad that the legal basis for this directive, which was originally intended for the internal market only, has now been extended to cover public health. one requirement: we have fought to ensure that internet sales are one of the cornerstones of this directive and thus allow for control in the light of what we see. and then there's a point where we have to be vigilant, because we know that counterfeit medicines represent between 1 and 3 percent of the market in developed countries, 10 to 30 percent in asia and latin america, and up to 70 percent in some countries in africa. some studies have shown that the trade in counterfeit medicines is 25 times more profitable than the trade in drugs. we therefore express a demand and a point which calls for vigilance in order to enable us to continue to develop stronger international cooperation, thanks to which the european union will be the driving force in the fight against the scourge of falsified medicines. i thank mrs marisa matias for her work and especially the rapporteur for our group, dagmar rothbehrendt, who is always relevant in this area.
i have a very short supplementary question in the light of the speech and the reply given by commissioner dalli, whom i thank for the precision of his remarks. it is clear, as you have said, that in 2003 and 2005 servier asked that the drug should no longer be sold in those two countries. you also stated that in 1998 and 1999 the working group did not authorize or request the withdrawal of this medicinal product. as you know, this drug was banned in the united states in 1997. it is therefore clear - and this is my supplementary question - that in a market as large as the european market, representing 500 million europeans, extra vigilance is needed, and in particular additional signals, to ensure that action is taken at the level of the european union, with strong competence on the part of the european commission and the medicines agency, thus avoiding what has happened in a number of member states, such as the example you have just given with what has happened in france.
madam president, i would like to welcome the balanced resolution of my colleague swoboda and say that we must absolutely succeed in this accession, which leads me to point out that there is a very great reluctance on the part of some public opinion because this accession is coming at the wrong time. history has no timetable and we are in crisis. the citizens are reluctant. after the fall of the berlin wall, there was a wave of post-communist accessions and today we are case by case. that is why, commissioner, i think that a major communication campaign would be needed in the member states of the union, and perhaps even in croatia, to explain all the work that has been done, that all the chapters are being respected and that this accession is being prepared seriously. that is my proposal because accession is not a european competence. the accession is the responsibility of the states and the peoples of the states. we have a duty to make this accession a success. let us not neglect any means in the difficult period of european construction that we are going through.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to welcome this first opportunity to discuss the european semester and the importance to be attached to the annual review of growth during this six-month period. in this context, commissioner, you and the members of the college decided to renew the employment guidelines and this parliament intends to give you a confirmation of this. we simply want to draw your attention to three points. the first concerns the content of this annual growth review. we are struck by the fact that the question of employment and unemployment appears to be secondary to the objectives of fiscal consolidation. when you bring up these issues directly related to the functioning of the labour market, we have the impression that you are breaking the social pact between the citizens of the member states and their governments. you propose that the retirement age be raised, that the amount of unemployment benefits be reduced, that the level of wages and the mechanisms for training them be changed, and that shops be allowed to open on sundays. we believe that this is an intrusion into a very dangerous social pact. we also believe that more attention should be paid to the most vulnerable populations, whether they are young people, women, the elderly or the disabled. we also believe that there is a great risk that fiscal consolidation will appear as the alpha and omega of this annual growth review. our second concern is that, on the basis of this annual growth review, you will define - as you yourself have said - national reform programmes. but this is where the important things are going to be decided. what are you doing about the debate in parliament on these matters, even though the guidelines are being renewed? how do you see a democratic debate on this issue? how do you reconcile article 148, which coordinates employment policies, with article 121, which coordinates economic policies? for the european parliament, there is great confusion today, because we are at the same time dealing with the europe 2020 strategy, the work of mr herman van rompuy's working group, the economic governance package in which this parliament is heavily invested, a revision of the treaty which preserves a european financial stability mechanism, but at the same time we are discussing a possible amendment to it. you are launching the european semester while chancellor merkel and president sarkozy are launching the competitiveness pact. at the same time, you are extending the employment guidelines, which will probably be a very vague framework for defining these national programmes. so, commissioner, i want to warn you about a third concern which is ours. when last year, with the complicity of the belgian presidency, we succeeded in changing the course of the employment guidelines, there was one point on which we had placed great emphasis, and that was the question of governance. and this governance, what does it mean? it means that we cannot have a successful economic and social policy if it is not accompanied by a genuine democratic debate. and democratic debate presupposes power for the european parliament, power for the national parliaments and real respect, real complicity, a real association of the social partners. and sometimes it seems that the proposals you make turn their backs on all those elements which make up democratic life in our countries. i think that without awareness of this issue, there is a risk of lack of coherence, a risk of diverting our people from what we are trying to do together and a risk of circumventing what is the key to our success, namely the spirit of community.
madam president, mr president of the hungarian presidency, if you will listen to me, commissioner, i have only one minute, and yet i would like to remain silent, to say nothing, because in my opinion the europe 2020 strategy is far from what we need. you're paying for words. you think that it is with guidelines, with flagships, with a whole bunch of things that you invent and that occupy you for hours and days that you will give work and confidence to the europeans? you're wrong. and if you look at the state of the world today, i don't think the chinese, the indians or the emerging countries are very impressed with what we're doing on growth. so as rapporteur on the economic governance package, i would almost like to keep my mouth shut in front of you and i would like to say one thing to you. in our work, we will be extremely firm. do not think, in the council, that it is enough to tell us to speed up to be sure that we will have an agreement in june. we shall have an agreement when this parliament has debated and when the council has listened to us. and i believe that the creation of eurobonds, which are likely to create a global market backed by the euro, is part of that package.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, perhaps you could tell president barroso that we would have liked him to take part in this debate because it is the first debate on the issues of the annual growth review, the cornerstone of this european semester that he has so much wanted and which he considers to be a key element in bringing the european union out of the crisis. perhaps you could also tell him that under these circumstances the european parliament will not be an easy partner and that the economic governance package requires the commission to give more weight to what comes out of this parliament. finally, you can also tell him that for this parliament the implementation of the lisbon treaty, of the whole lisbon treaty, and in particular of article 9, which asks you to make the social question a horizontal question, is not a dead letter for us. we expect the lisbon treaty to be fully applied. it is constantly said that the treaty must be revised to a minimum and that its full potential must be exploited. in the potential of this article 9, we sometimes feel that the annual growth review is turning its back on it. finally, i would like to say, at the end of this debate, what strikes me. it sometimes seems that the european commission, even after this crisis, continues to think on the basis of the 'old recipes', with the idea that the main thing is labour market reform. it is well known, in the mainstream thinking in the european commission, of which you are no doubt not a representative, that when we talk about labour market reforms, we talk about flexibility, not even flexicurity, but flexibility. but the last ten years, even before the crisis, have shown us that this way of thinking - that growth is enough to create jobs - is no longer enough. the real challenge we face is that of employment, both for ourselves and for the countries around us. but when i see the debate on competitiveness, i see a debate that turns its back on this priority of employment, and i am worried about that.
madam president, the minister rightly referred to the respect of the treaty and pointed out that there had been a european council on 4 february. i would like to know, pursuant to article 15 of the treaty on european union, when the president of the european council will report to the european parliament on the european council of 4 february, since i believe he will not be coming for this part-session.
in writing. while the demographics of our european continent as a whole are experiencing a sustained trend towards an ageing population, it is certain that expenditure on medicines will continue to increase in our countries. if we are to measure the effects of medicines and to reason about their consumption, it is also essential to combat the growing falsification of medicines. in addition to the financial damage to european research, it is now an urgent european public health issue. the european parliament was right to take matters into its own hands.
in writing. we voted in favour of the matias report on falsified medicines. this is a matter of public health and safety in a europe without frontiers where the worst counterfeit or simply low-quality trash can circulate freely. however, it is not certain that the european union is best placed to solve the problems of health, medicines and pharmacovigilance. it may even be at the origin of this, for example with the 2004 directive on traditional herbal medicines, coupled with the 2006 regulation on health claims. the first requires extremely complex and expensive procedures for registration with the european medicines agency, so that only 200 herbal medicines had been registered by the end of 2010. the other gives the european food safety authority the power to authorise or not authorise health claims for food supplements, including plants, an authorisation it gives so rarely and refuses so arbitrarily that even the commission is moved. the result is that european legislation will favour chemical medicines and pharmaceutical laboratories. is there a will to eradicate the natural medicine sector? for whose benefit? not necessarily the health of europeans.
in writing. the share of counterfeit medicines now represents 10% of the volume of global pharmaceutical sales, and europe is far from being spared from this scourge, which is also developing in a worrying way. i am therefore glad that this text has been approved by parliament, because meps have fought to improve the original proposal of the european commission which puts the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industries above the health and safety of european citizens. the new text also takes into account the sale of medicines on the internet, which will then be better regulated and controlled, for the benefit of all.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive on the fight against falsified medicines. given the number of counterfeit medicines seized in the european union (more than 34 million counterfeit tablets seized in 2008), it is high time that the european union put in place an effective traceability system to guarantee the origin and quality of medicines available in the eu. this is all the more necessary as counterfeit medicines pose a real risk to the health of europeans, given the substances, sometimes toxic, they may contain. the new measures introduced (electronic serial number on the packaging of prescription medicines allowing the traceability of the medicinal product from the factory to the patient; limitation of handling during the refurbishing stages; reinforced inspections of manufacturers and wholesalers) are therefore a concrete step forward in ensuring greater safety for european citizens and patients. finally, i would like to stress the progress made in this text on the sale of medicines on the internet. while an estimated 50% of medicines bought on the internet are counterfeit, the text introduces a common logo to identify legal online pharmacies. however, it is up to europeans to be vigilant when making such online purchases.
in writing. parliament's amendments do not call for the extension of safety systems to non-prescription medicines. our citizens buy a lot of them. their health is therefore at risk. they also do not call for the european medicines agency to be fully transparent about its studies and the collusion of interests between its officials and pharmaceutical companies. this is necessary. the scandalous case of benfluorex, known as mediator in france, is irrefutable proof of this. but the proposed amendments are a step in the right direction, particularly in terms of public authentication of websites and sanctions. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. with 100 million jobs in europe, smes are the backbone of the european economy. however, only 2% of them have access to eu funding. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution adopted by the european parliament, which calls in particular for special attention to be paid to sme financing in the next eu financial perspective for 2014-2020 through the use of innovative financial instruments. i welcome the clear message from parliament to the commission and the council to remove the administrative barriers which are particularly burdensome for small businesses and prevent them from accessing eu funding and support programmes.
in writing. while member states remain fully responsible for the choice and organisation of their pension systems, the fact remains that european economies have become interdependent and that discussions on economic governance also concern the sustainability and viability of pension systems. the eu may therefore have a coordinating role to play. the rapporteur has made a great effort to find compromises; there were good things in this text, including the idea that pension systems should provide a decent standard of living for all citizens, that diversity should be respected, that the gender gap is unacceptable and unjustified, that the approach should be life-cycle oriented and that older workers should be rehabilitated. but at the same time, too much compromise leads to a text that is sometimes vague and too open to interpretation. in addition, there are some ideas which i cannot support, such as those calling on the states to improve citizens' access to private savings and to promote the work of the elderly through tax and social relief measures. for these reasons i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report calling on the member states of the european union to establish strong, sustainable and secure pension systems. it reaffirms the primary mission of pensions: to ensure social cohesion in a spirit of equity between generations. in a context of demographic change and economic crisis, pensions must remain a fundamental part of our social pact. i would like to remind you, however, that each member state is free to organise its own pension system and that the european union's action is simply intended to facilitate coordination between the member states.
in writing. despite the constant references to the principle of subsidiarity, the aim here is to lay the foundations for the harmonization of pension systems in the european union, if not in the level of pensions, at least in their structures. how can anyone believe, in your ultra-liberal and globalist europe, that such harmonization can be anything other than an encouragement to individual insurance with private companies. a market with a potential of hundreds of billions of euros. the first pillar, public, compulsory and distributive pensions, will be reduced dramatically as a result of the stability pact, which will be replaced by mrs merkel's pact. the occupational pension funds which we want to develop are still pension funds, whose role in the global financial destabilization is well known. we also know what they are worth in times of financial crisis - the ruin of savers. and there is a concern that even in europe, the prudential rules to which they are subject are pathetic. the social protection system as a whole, and the pension system in particular, is the sole responsibility of the states. the problem to be solved is not just financial, it is demographic. the european union, which has a heavy responsibility in these matters, is by no means the appropriate level to deal with them.
in writing. the report on pension systems in europe is a very sensitive subject. even if there are clearly positive elements in this text, it would be totally unacceptable for the old-age insurance mechanism to be seen through the prism of budgetary constraints, thus pushing for the capitalisation of pensions. as a supporter of solidarity between generations, i could not vote in favour of a report which would risk promoting the development of systems of funded pension funds.
in writing. i abstained on this text, which, although it contains many very positive elements, unfortunately contains some ideas to which i am opposed. removing barriers to worker mobility by ensuring the portability of pension rights, respecting the diversity of national pension systems, reducing gender inequalities and unacceptable gaps between men and women in employment and pension benefits, rehabilitating older workers, ensuring greater protection against dismissal for older workers, etc. are among the recommendations made in this report and i warmly welcome them. however, other factors led me to abstain, such as the fact that the report calls for the promotion of private savings.
in writing. while there are positive aspects to this text, such as the importance of the re-launch of employment in ensuring the sustainability of pension systems and the role of the social partners, there are other aspects which i found difficult to support, which is why i abstained on this text. the abolition of paragraph 24 on the link between life expectancy and retirement age is, however, a great victory for the socialists and democrats, who have thus sought to defend the european social model, contrary to what this measure advocated. the fact is that some social groups are experiencing a decline in their life expectancy because of the working conditions in which they find themselves and the difficulties they face in accessing preventive and curative care. we must ensure that all european citizens enjoy their retirement properly.
in writing. i voted against this report which is an advocacy for capitalised pensions against public pension systems by distribution, for the reduction of the retirement age, and which advocates an approach which would make older workers even more vulnerable by encouraging 'flexible' pensions combining work and retirement.
in writing. this report irresponsibly advocates raising the legal retirement age while hypocritically suggesting that a 'social and civic dialogue' on the subject be set up and that due account be taken of the outcome. the necessary referendum is unfortunately still far away... as expected, it is also an ode to the privatisation of the system of distributive pension, which has proven itself. the report proposes that pensions be transformed into financial products in the internal market for pension funds, where free and undistorted competition prevails. i am voting against and condemning this text in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. my vote on the resolution of the foreign affairs committee of this parliament on croatia's progress towards membership is a sign of a distrust of the benefits of the european union, which according to opinion polls is shared by a majority of croats. it is regrettable that the authorities of a country which became independent and sovereign after a terrible conflict have continually put that country under an external yoke, against the wishes of their public opinion. i voted against the maastricht treaty. i voted against the european constitution. i would have voted against the lisbon treaty if my government had had the courage to submit it to the french people. i hope that the croats will be consulted directly on their country's accession to the union and that their wishes, unlike those of the french, irish and dutch, will be respected. voting in favour of a resolution which regrets that the plight of minorities who practice this or that sexual deviation is not a central concern, which advocates intensive propaganda to reverse negative opinion polls, and which encourages the same economic mistakes as those committed in our countries, was really impossible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress made by croatia, which confirms the efforts made by croatia in the context of its forthcoming accession to the european union. indeed, this accession has several advantages, such as consolidating peace and stability in the balkan region and strengthening the eu's position in the region. the text we voted on also touches on the issues that remain problematic and on which croatia must continue to work, such as the fight against corruption, which remains one of the major scourges in the country, and the aid to returnees, which remains insufficient. i hope that croatia will continue on this positive path.
in writing. it is no wonder that the eurobarometer reports that croats think the european union is not beneficial to them. it is not. i vote against this resolution and its anti-social injunctions.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, thank you for inviting the hungarian presidency to participate in this debate on rising food prices. for a second time in three years, the issue is on the agenda. once again, rising food prices are causing social unrest and political instability in several countries. families in the poorest regions of the world are in difficulty. moreover, the food and agriculture organisation tells us that the outlook is not good, with prices set to rise further this year as a result of adverse climatic conditions. this is a pressing issue. it was discussed between agriculture ministers and wto director-general lamy in berlin on 22 january 2011, and once again in the agriculture council on 24 january this year. the reasons for this latest rise in prices are complex and are a mixture of structural and temporary factors. on the demand side, we have more people to feed than ever before. on the supply side, droughts and floods have played their part in wrecking harvests, input costs have risen and this has all been compounded by financial speculation in the commodity markets. so what can the european union do to address this problem? we need to get our internal policies right, we need to improve global governance in this area and we need to make a real contribution to the most vulnerable. now is not the time for complacency, but we did make some important progress in all three aspects as a result of the last food prices crisis. the council, along with parliament, is engaged in an intensive debate on the future development of the common agricultural policy. this is highly relevant with regard to global food security. recent council debates put food security at the centre of the discussion, asking the question how best to ensure that agricultural production in the eu will be both economically viable and environmentally sustainable in the future. let me also say that we have read with great interest parliament’s resolution on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, based on the report by the honourable member, daciana sârbu. there are ongoing discussions in the council concerning the commission’s communication of 18 november 2010 on the future of the cap, and the hungarian presidency plans to adopt council conclusions at the council meeting of 17 march. we hope that the discussions concerning the legislative proposals scheduled to come out in the second semester of 2011 will lead to concrete progress. we have made important progress towards a more coordinated and long-term international response to world food security. we are a long way from reaching the millennium development goal to halve the world’s hungry people by 2015. hunger and food insecurity remain a reality for a billion people, but one of the un’s recent achievements, following much work by the eu, has been the creation of the global partnership for agriculture, food security and nutrition. this is being implemented by the revitalised committee on world food security in the fao. the eu has also been spearheading the renewal and modernisation of the food aid convention in order to better contribute to world food security and to improve the ability of the international community to deliver food assistance to the most vulnerable populations. this is the way forward in order to enhance global governance in this area. from a food security perspective, i would like to remind you of the commission’s communication on humanitarian food assistance, adopted at the end of march 2010, and the subsequent council conclusions in mid-may 2010, thus outlining a new policy framework for eu humanitarian action to strengthen efforts to tackle food insecurity in humanitarian crises. the commission’s communication on assisting developing countries in addressing food security challenges, also adopted last year, called at the same time for a new common food security policy framework, further strengthening eu leadership in the global food security agenda and improving the effectiveness of eu assistance. to this end, the commission and member states are jointly developing an implementation plan to translate this policy framework into concrete actions on the ground. let me also mention the eu’s eur 1 billion food facility, which was agreed by parliament and the council. we are in the third year of operation of this instrument which helps farmers in the developing world to increase agricultural production capacity. this is a tangible sign of our determination to bring real assistance to the most vulnerable. decisions are about to commence on the future orientation of the eu development policy based on the green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development. with the green paper process, the commission takes the initiative of attributing priority to economic growth generation, agriculture and food security in development cooperation in order to achieve inclusive and sustainable development in developing countries on the grounds of pro-poor solutions. given the rising food prices and rapid population growth, enhancing developing countries’ own food production capacities is of paramount importance. we also welcome the new impetus given by the g20 seoul summit to the wto doha development agenda. the eu would give full backing to a deal which would make a significant contribution to providing stability by getting rid of export subsidies and prohibiting export restrictions. the latter only serve to exacerbate price volatility and have exactly the opposite effect of the one desired. let me now come back to the issue of financial speculation. the extent to which it contributes to price volatility is unclear, but there is a good reason to enhance transparency on the commodity markets. the french presidency of the g20 has identified this as a priority for the coming year. the hungarian presidency of the eu is ready to work shoulder to shoulder with the french presidency of the g20 to achieve concrete results. the hungarian presidency is fully committed to working with you towards a first reading agreement on the commission proposal on over-the-counter derivatives. the world’s poor and hungry deserve an adequate and lasting response to their worries about rising food prices. the european union has been at the forefront in efforts to tackle the issue since the first crisis three years ago, but more needs to be done. the council remains fully committed to a collective and coherent response, both at eu and international level. i am sure we can count on your support in all our efforts. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the commission on the increase in food prices. it was at my request that this matter was discussed at the agriculture council on 24 january. i therefore also welcome the opportunity to have this dialogue with the european parliament on a key issue. i would like to deal with two subjects which i believe are interrelated. firstly, the situation on the international agricultural markets, which have been rising again for several weeks, and secondly, the g20 process on food security and agricultural price volatility. let us start with the situation on the international agricultural markets. the world has been put on alert again by reports from several international institutions, including the fao, on the rise in agricultural and food prices. are we experiencing the same price spikes as in 2007-2008? even though prices, especially cereals, have risen sharply since summer and again recently , we do not seem to be at the 2008 price level. the world situation is tense for common wheat, but there is no problem with supplying the market. the current harvests in the southern hemisphere are larger than expected. nevertheless, in order to facilitate the end of the marketing years for the european union market, we are considering a suspension of import duties within the tariff quotas for low- and medium-quality common wheat and for fodder barley, as we believe that this is one of the measures which could help to relax the market a little at european level. it should be recalled that the forecasts for world stocks of common wheat at the end of the 2010-2011 marketing year are higher than in 2007. sugar prices are again reaching record levels, with a price for white sugar of around eur 625 per tonne in mid-january. the price increase follows two years of global deficit due to low production. the current crop yield has recently been revised down in some countries, notably australia. but according to the latest forecasts, the global balance for sugar is expected to be in balance for the period 2010-2011. yet, there is a lesson to be learned from all of this. even though markets may be tense, there is certainly an overreaction at the price level compared to what the physical fundamentals are telling us. clearly, food security and the underlying issue of agricultural price volatility are global issues that must be addressed at the global level as well. and i am pleased that the issue of food security and volatility is one of the priorities set by the g20 in seoul. for the commission as a whole, this is a major challenge. as commissioner for agriculture and rural development, i have already stated my commitment on this subject on several occasions, in international forums, for example in berlin at the end of january, with my counterparts from the various countries involved in the g20, but also recently in the united nations, with secretary-general ban ki-moon, during a recent visit to new york. it should also be noted that the issue of food security is explicitly included as one of the challenges of the common agricultural policy in the communication that the commission has presented for the common agricultural policy for 2020. this is a key issue both for the european union and for the poorest countries in the world, and that is why i am working closely with commissioner piebalgs on these issues, to better adapt the european union's development policy also to this issue of food security. i would like to share with you my thoughts on these issues today, particularly on four topics: transparency, stocks, volatility management options and the role of trade. it is understood that volatility is exacerbated by a lack of transparency in both physical and derivatives markets. for agricultural markets, there are data sources on production, consumption, trade and stocks. detailed data on this subject are produced by international organisations, national services or specialised organisations such as the international grains council. that said, some data can be improved, particularly those on stocks for which information is lacking, in particular on the distribution of stocks worldwide. the g20 leaders meeting in seoul have also asked the relevant international organisations to improve information on stocks and production forecasts. improving the relevance of such data is a prerequisite for better market transparency. the question of a global forum for discussion between the main market makers - exporters and importers - is also a must, so as not to simply see crises when they happen. that is why these three issues are linked: first, we need to have the information, then we need to be able to process this data, and then we need to have a place, at the international level, where we can discuss the situation. the commission has published several communications on the price of agricultural and food products and the food chain. in its last communication, the commission launched actions to improve transparency throughout the food chain, and i am working with commission vice-president tajani to advance this key topic. proposals were also announced to improve transparency and supervision of agricultural commodity derivatives. in the face of increased volatility, it is important that futures markets continue to fulfil their role as hedging and price discovery. we therefore need a balanced and rigorous approach, and i welcome the work carried out by commissioner barnier in this area and i fully support him in his work to cover the specific issue of agricultural raw materials. on 2 february the commission published a new and more comprehensive communication on the commodities market and the financial markets derived from it. this is a contribution to the discussions within the g20 on both commodity price volatility and the supervision of derivatives markets. we want to contribute, with our g20 partners and beyond, to more effective regulation of derivatives markets in the interests of producers and users. i therefore believe that we must work on the following issues as a matter of priority in the coming months - i think by the summer - firstly, the availability and transparency of information relating to private and public stocks, production and consumption; the second is the question of the collection, processing and dissemination of this information. the backstop mechanism for countries facing food stress; the role and organisation of food aid at international level and in the european union; improving international governance, for example through institutional dialogue mechanisms between key countries; levels of investment in sustainable agricultural production and research, in the european union but also in the poorest countries. the level of priority to be given to agriculture in development policies is also an issue to be addressed, especially as the commission prepares to adapt and reform development policy. i think that in this context the european union must be much more present, not only with food aid but above all with support for the countries of the south to enable them to develop their own local production capacity in a sustainable way. in the european union we need to look more seriously - and i intend to do so - at identifying market mechanisms that will allow us to avoid disasters in certain sectors as a result of this temporary strain on the level of producers' incomes and the cost of inputs. i am thinking in particular of livestock farming. i come now to the role of trade. we believe that trade can contribute to global food security by ensuring a fair distribution of food supplies throughout the world. export restrictions have only reinforced the spiral of rising prices to the detriment of already fragile countries. however, trade policy on food products should be linked to other food policies at international level if we want a coherent approach to this issue. in conclusion, i can assure you that i am following developments in food prices very closely and i want to work in the future in liaison with you here in parliament and with the council on this matter, to make concrete proposals, first with the reform of the common agricultural policy, but also with other more specific instruments.
i would like to start by sharing the point made by mrs mcguinness that there is a vital link between the food question and the agricultural question. the subject of our concern is the increase in food prices, with the consequences this may have for a number of populations in the world, but also in europe. i'd like to try and share a little bit of information first. the trend towards higher prices for agricultural products and agricultural raw materials is, in my view, a long-term trend which will continue for three main reasons: first, the world's changing demographics and the increase in the world's population. secondly, the fact that we have returned, with global warming, to climate hazards that are a problem, whether it's drought or flooding. thirdly, because the world is also developing. with new emerging countries, consumption levels are rising. so the tension in agricultural markets and agricultural commodities is a heavy trend. it is aggravated by price volatility and price volatility is a consequence of the financialisation of the world economy. this is also the subject that must be tackled if we are to solve both the agricultural and the food question. to do this - what the commissioner said is important - there are two elements: yes, we need transparency on stocks, but we also need a public policy on stocks in europe and stock management on a global scale, particularly at un level. secondly, financial markets and financial speculation must be regulated, in particular by refusing to allow speculative volume to have any connection with the physical quantities traded on the markets. we cannot accept that speculators speculate on the food question without taking into account the consequences of this, since it is the food of the world and of humanity. this brings me to two major conclusions: we need a strong european policy and we strategically reaffirm europe's commitment to be a food and agricultural player on a global scale. secondly, we need to change our development policy to make sure that on a global scale - and europe is a player - we invest again in agriculture because we will need all farms to feed the world. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, as in 2008, the price of agricultural raw materials is soaring on world markets. we're only 3 percent of the 2008 level. the decline in production in certain traditional exporting areas due to climate change, the diversion of cereals to biofuel production and financial speculation which accentuates the effects of the increase are responsible for this situation, as the imf and french authorities' reports show and as the commission also says. the consequences of this new food crisis are hard on the 1.2 billion people worldwide who live on less than $1.5. since october, 44 million more people have joined these people living below the poverty line. two days before the g20 meeting, what is europe waiting for to take similar measures to those voted in the united states? since 13 january 2011, the us administration has required the limitation and transparency of positions taken by financial funds on the markets for agricultural raw materials. it is a first step to counteract the appetites of speculators. the impact is also dramatic for european farmers. they're no longer able to feed their animals. hundreds of farms are bankrupt. five years ago, wheat was worth 100 euros a ton, today it is trading at nearly 300 euros. so the situation has changed completely. the commission requires farmers to adapt to market signals, and it would be wise today to follow its own advice. faced with this crisis, the european union cannot wait until 2014 to find solutions. we must face the crisis and i propose three concrete actions. firstly, the creation of stocks of cereals in the countries to be made available to farmers at a subsidized price immediately. secondly, the indexation of the price of meat paid to farmers on the evolution of feed prices. thirdly, for 2011, a mechanism for transferring part of the aid for cereals to livestock production.
madam president, mr president, commissioner, i would like to address a matter which has been raised on several occasions and often presented as a single reason: speculation. i think that in speculation, we must be measured. it is clear that there is a definite link between certain financial activities and the volatility and the rise in commodity prices. but to reduce the whole question to financial speculation would certainly be wrong since part of what is called speculation is in fact the legitimate hedging of prices by producers and, as we know, these producers could not do without this possibility of hedging. on the other hand, direct investment in raw materials must be avoided from having, by reason of its massive nature or its purely speculative nature, adverse effects on price volatility. in this respect, the proposals made by commissioner barnier in the financial field, in particular the regulation of short selling, the regulation of derivatives and also the forthcoming revision of the mif directive, should give parliament the opportunity to take account of the aspects of commodity speculation in the regulation and supervision that will be put in place so that these markets are also regulated in a way that is both effective and pragmatic. as you said, commissioner, these efforts must be continued and i believe that parliament, which has followed and sometimes even gone ahead of the commission's proposals in the financial crisis, will live up to its responsibility. finally, i would like to welcome the statement by the hungarian presidency that europe would support the french presidency of the g20, which has made the regulation of commodity markets one of its priorities.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, all the hungry people in the world, all those who have to pay more for food or clothing, are waiting for us to counter with greater energy the greatest calamity that is now afflicting the planet, that is to say, the one produced by the rapacious speculators in food. they are the ones who are driving up food prices against the farmers and against the consumers. i have heard the vibrant plea of our colleague mr gauzès, but he must know that in his own region this year we bought cereals for the next harvest before they were even sown. so it is speculation we are talking about. the european union must act in several directions to achieve this. first, action to put an end to these financial speculators: the creation of a global agricultural and food fund with the creation of safety stocks and the establishment of mechanisms for the stabilization of real prices for real and not virtual production under the auspices of the un. our common agricultural policy must also be returned to a system.....
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all express my regret that it takes a crisis in europe to give rise to the debate we are having today and the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. as recently as last year, when developing countries were rising up in what were called 'hunger riots', europe offered only emergency responses, namely the sending of seeds and fertilisers. as if the problem were only cyclical, whereas we have been warning for a long time about structural problems. a cap lacking effective regulatory instruments because the liberal majority still considers that nothing should impede the market. the widespread speculation in agricultural products, economically destabilising and morally unacceptable, of developing countries trapped in export monocultures with a europe that is not on their side and that devotes only 4% of its development aid to the agricultural sector. with this resolution, the whole of this parliament finally recognizes that the right to food is a fundamental human right, that it is not acceptable that the hunger of some be exploited for the benefit of others, that regulation is essential to ensure price stability, or that trade agreements must safeguard small farms and the right to food. parliament is sending a clear message today, and it is up to the commission and the council to translate it.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a lively debate on a subject which is clearly of concern to us, which is highlighted when the situation demands it, but which is a permanent concern of the commission and the european institutions since we have the chance to have a common agricultural policy which must be adapted, but which is an important tool for dealing with these issues. however, i think it also emerges from this debate that our stability is now increasingly dependent on international and global balances. this is something that must be incorporated even when we talk about our common agricultural policy. it is also clear, i think, that the increase in food prices is a major trend which, together with the question of volatility and the high variation in prices, further exacerbates the problem we have to solve. it is clear that if we want more production on the market, we need investment in agriculture, but for farmers to be able to invest, they need above all stable incomes to have the courage to take this step. that is why our common agricultural policy in the medium and long term must be thought of in this way. it must provide a minimum of stability and encourage investment so that we can produce and supply our markets. it is also clear from this debate that we must ensure that our common agricultural policy and the agricultural policies of the developed countries are also in line with the agricultural development of the countries of the south and that our policy of development and cooperation with the countries of the south is in line with the common agricultural policy. at the same time, our common agricultural policy must ensure the sustainable development of agriculture, but we may also have to review the instruments at our disposal to deal with these extreme situations on the market, while allowing the market to play its role without, however, being deprived of the instruments we need to act and avoid being caught off guard by crisis situations. the common agricultural policy still has a lot to do in the months and years ahead. the question of speculation, and therefore of volatility, is a question to be dealt with and i am not saying this in a dismissive way. the commission has already put forward proposals which it will follow in order to deal with this situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the question must also be asked of the role which the european union must play on the international scene in this food problem. this issue cannot be stabilized at home alone if it is unstable at the international level. perhaps we also need to review our role in agricultural policy and in development policy and the way we deal with the food question through different policies: trade policy, development policy, financial policy. perhaps we need concerted action here too. i also noted the need for action in the short term in certain sectors, and i am thinking in particular of the animal sector, which is clearly going through a difficult period because of the strong pressure from both sides, low prices for the producer who cannot take advantage of the price increase, but also high input prices. that's a question i wrote down. i have also noted various proposals and suggestions which you have made. for example, as regards the balancing of aid between the crop and livestock sectors, member states already have the possibility to act following the decisions taken in 2008 in the health check of the common agricultural policy. the question of stocks is one that needs to be re-analysed and reviewed, since, with high prices, we cannot speak of intervention stocks now, but perhaps we should see what role this type of stocks can play and how they could influence the proper functioning of the markets. i think these are questions which we must ask ourselves before we make any proposals in this direction. i would also like to conclude by telling mr paška that the differences in payment between member states do not necessarily come from the commission. it is a decision taken by the council, by the ministers of agriculture. the final decision always comes from the regulation proposed by the commission, but these are council regulations and now council and parliament regulations. i would also like to point out that there is no subsidy for agricultural production for biofuels in the european union, so it is not the common agricultural policy that stimulates biofuel production and the commission has no intention of set-aside either; i am not saying that we should not be concerned with the question of the future of the community, but that we should not be concerned with the question of the future of the community. these are some of the points i would like to add in answer to the questions raised. i also thank you for this fruitful debate and i hope that today's debate will be remembered in a few months' time when we discuss the resources to be allocated to the common agricultural policy, a policy which is a basic instrument for ensuring food security.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to thank all the members for this constructive debate. i believe that the high level of political attention afforded by parliament to this issue provides a helping hand to the presidency to fulfil its agenda with regard to the rising food prices. as has also been highlighted in this debate, due to the extent and depth of this issue, it requires multifaceted cooperation and complex solutions across various areas such as agriculture, regulation of financial products and services as well as development policy. with respect to biofuel production, i would just like to repeat that the eu is fully aware that the unsustainable production of biofuels can have negative effects, notably mass deforestation and food shortages. that is why the eu is committed to stepping up the development of second-generation biofuels made of non-food crops. the eu has also abolished the perverse financial incentives for biofuel production at the expense of food production. given the deep structural global roots of the problem, europe needs to play a leading role in tackling food prices and food security at global level. this is already taking place through a number of international organisations and programmes such as fao and the world food programme, as well as through more general forums such as the g20. i would just like to add that, on a personal level, this debate has reinforced my long-standing conviction that, to tackle global challenges, such as hunger in the world, volatility of food and raw material prices, turbulence on the financial markets, regulation of financial products and services, there is a need for much more global governance and more global rule-making. europe, based upon its unique experiences with governance and rule-making, does have a very special mission and responsibility here. it is for this reason that we believe that europe and the european union have to take a leading role in combating all these challenges. the hungarian presidency is pleased to note that it can count on parliament to maintain the work being made by the eu, both in terms of policy and of efforts at international level.
in writing. global food security is a key issue for the european union. immediate and continuous action is needed to ensure food security for eu citizens and the world. it is essential to develop sustainable agriculture in developing countries and to allocate an appropriate share of eu development aid to the agricultural sector. the dramatic reduction in the level of development aid allocated to agriculture since the 1980s is to be regretted, and it is to be hoped that the recognition of this need will reverse this trend. the european commission must give priority to agriculture in development aid, in particular aid to enable farmers to access markets and aid to small and medium-sized family farms. humanitarian food assistance should respond to the needs, challenges and structural constraints of developing countries, taking into account local production, distribution and transport as well as marketing capacities in those countries to help lay the foundations for their long-term food security.
in writing. the resolution on food price increases takes up the observation of a growing increase in food prices, for which we call for urgent measures to combat price manipulation. among the causes of this increase, climatic phenomena deserve special attention, in other words, better management of water and soil. the direct impact of rising food prices on the world population, which can trigger riots and social movements, should also encourage g20 leaders to agree on market measures to combat speculation.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr füle, i believe that we have several projects ahead of us. the first problem, which will not be solved in two weeks, is that the commission is asking itself what realpolitik is in an atmosphere such as that which has existed for years in the mediterranean region and perhaps elsewhere. that is to say, what relations the european union can and must have, and how these relations are structured with dictatorships. because it is extraordinary! today, everyone says that mr. mubarak was a dictator. a month ago i did not hear this in the european parliament. he wasn't a dictator. so if you want to freeze assets, don't just freeze the assets of mr. mubarak's friends, but freeze the assets of mr. mubarak and his family, like you did for ben ali, not just those in mr. ben ali's entourage. secondly, i think that we have a democratic tsunami in egypt and tunisia today. what did we do when a tsunami killed so many people? we have mobilized exceptional funds to help the people. we must now mobilise exceptional funds to help the people in tunisia and egypt, because the reasons for the revolt were hunger, poverty, and if, in the democratic transition, there is no alleviation of poverty, there is a risk that some of the revolt will, for example, turn to the fundamentalists and the fundamentalists. we can't wait. so i think the commission should offer a substantial package to tunisia and egypt and say that democracy is good because it also brings in money. at the same time, i believe that mrs ashton's trip is not enough today. there must be a special envoy or a special envoy because we must continue to discuss with the committees. for example, in tunisia and egypt, in these committees that are rewriting the constitution, the opposition parties are not present and there are no women. there are only men, while women were in the demonstrations. we must therefore support this process and i believe that the commission, as it did in the east, must offer its help in the constitutional matters that are necessary, that is to say, we must be present politically, legally and economically. and then one last thing. you know, in the region, there is a discussion about the technical upgrading of the association agreements with israel. i don't think that's the right solution. i don't think this is the right signal. we must protect israel, but today we must review the policy of everyone in the region and also the policy of the israeli government. the problem is not to question israel but the policy of the israeli government. and to give israel a bonus today by technically enhancing the association agreement would be a bad signal for the entire region. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, do you think it is more fitting that the eu is negotiating with mr gaddafi today on the return of refugees, when 40 people were injured in demonstrations in libya today? do you think it would be better to force the return of refugees now, together with the dictator? do you find this tasteful?
mr president, i believe that history would not forgive us if we did not live up to the events that have just happened and will continue to happen. i therefore believe it is very important that the european union should be able to draw the lessons quickly from its relative obliteration, to put it mildly, at the time of recent events. that is why i believe that we must really put the package together, that we must fully support the process of democratic transition, whether in tunisia or in egypt, that we must stand with these peoples and tell them, that we must do everything to ensure that it is a state of law that emerges strengthened from these revolutions, from these changes, especially for egypt. i believe that only a rule of law will be an element of stability and stabilization for the whole of this region. so that's how important it is! we must hold a donor conference and, above all, not be afraid! these revolutions are secular revolutions of egyptians and tunisians who simply want democracy and development, one does not go without the other. but let us review our neighbourhood policy and explore the question of relations between states, but also between public opinion and public opinion. this is the role of the european parliament in particular.
mr president, commissioner, we cannot repeat enough that what we are experiencing in the southern mediterranean and, more generally, in the arab world is historic, first of all for those peoples who, half a century after the liberation of their country by decolonisation, are now achieving their individual and collective freedom. historic, but also unexpected, like, you might say, any popular revolution. but this news requires us to completely rethink our vision, our policies and our relations with these countries. proposals are being made. indeed, the caution we have observed in our reactions so far can easily and painfully be explained by our obsession with stability, that is, by this vision of security, which is nourished by our fears and whose only priority is the fight against immigration, terrorism and radical islam, plus a few economic interests, in particular access to energy. we have been accommodated by authoritarian regimes whose only purpose is to satisfy our anxieties. the revolt of the peoples has confirmed the failure of our policies, and we no longer have the right to construct our analyses on the basis of the same anxieties or, worse, the same xenophobic convictions. that is why we must be present alongside those who aspire to greater freedom and democracy, where one can be muslim, democratic and secular. that's the message that's being sent to us.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, this is indeed the first major free trade agreement that europe has signed in recent years and, as far as free trade agreements are concerned, it must be admitted that your ambition is high, south korea, canada, india, mercosur. there is no country, no area that is not covered by the european commission's ambition for a free trade agreement. with this agreement we have seen that there are not only winners and we should still be asking ourselves about the winners when we talk to me about the winners in agriculture. as a member of the british parliament, i can tell you that where more than 60% of french pigs are produced, the small profits of the agri-food companies do not compensate for the decline in tourism, the damage to the environment, the health of the workers or the losses of farmers. but there are also many losers and do we have a vision of economic and social europe after all these free trade agreements have been signed? we have no such agreements, and we do not know whether there will be any industrial or economic sectors which will benefit from these free trade agreements. and above all, commissioner, you may try to tell us that we are not questioning south korea's environmental and climate policy, but that is not true! we're going to be able to export big sedans, the ones that the manufacturers that do the least in terms of climate are rewarded for by this agreement. for the first time, the european union is challenging a climate policy of one of its trading partners. has the european commission started to change its fuel quality directive under pressure from canada? we think we are reversing europe's ambitions: the environment, the climate, before trade. for this reason, our group will vote against this agreement.
mr president, this free trade agreement was the first to be examined after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and that is why we, the members of parliament, could not accept that it could enter into force without having obtained solid guarantees, guarantees which, moreover, should serve as a model for future trade agreements. it will therefore be up to you and us to ensure that these mechanisms are effectively implemented in order to protect the european economy in the event of distortion of competition. but this should not in any way exempt us from strategic thinking in two areas. firstly, to ensure that competition is really fair, it will be necessary for social, health and environmental standards to be taken into account in trade agreements. this is inevitable. secondly, europe must finally acquire the instruments it needs to maintain or regain production capacity, for example in industry or agriculture, and to preserve - this is absolutely vital for its future - its technological advance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, i should first like to thank my colleague mr kalfin for the excellent work we have been able to do together and, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, for which i was rapporteur, my colleagues mrs hautala, mr lambsdorff and mrs giannakou. i will not go into the positive aspects of the report and the proposal advocated by mr kalfin - he himself has done so - on the mandate for climate change, the increase in human resources, the focus on development with social, environmental and human rights, the refocusing of the guarantee on the countries that need it most and the best link with the union's policies. on all these points, you should know that parliament is united and must remain united in the difficult negotiations which i have just heard are about to take place with the council. i would like to draw attention to two shortcomings at this stage. i regret that, although the foreign affairs committee voted in favour of them with the consensus of all the political groups, the need to prepare the eib for microcredit now was not considered, nor was the need to start discussing the ceilings after 2013 considered. the socialist and democratic group has therefore decided, with the agreement of the rapporteur, mr kalfin, and the other rapporteurs, to table amendments on these two subjects. finally, there is a crucial point to which i would like to draw your political attention and which has been under discussion for years. when the berlin wall fell, we were able to react not only with the enlargement project, the details of which some may dispute, but whose necessity is unquestionable. but before that, we set up the ebrd to be able to support the necessary economic and democratic transition. the european union, and the eib, as its arm, is the leading donor on the other side of the mediterranean. but at the same time we know that these funds do not go beyond a programme, namely 2013, as i said earlier, and that the discussions we have today show that there may be difficulties tomorrow. there is a project - already voted by the european parliament and supported in the report on the union for the mediterranean - which is taken up in the kalfin report under discussion today, namely the creation of a euro-mediterranean co-development and investment bank. it would be a pragmatic way, beyond rhetorical speeches, of welcoming the european union's willingness to support the great democratic movement taking place on the other side of the mediterranean, and i hope that we can take it seriously and take action in the coming months in favour of the creation of this bank.
mr president, the european investment bank is an intergovernmental instrument. member states shall guarantee within the union and the european union shall guarantee outside the union. it is imperative that the bank retain its triple-a rating, this guarantee is perfectly useful. it will also be necessary for the union to become a shareholder or associate in this bank one day if the intergovernmental and community funds are to be brought together. my proposal is to have the question of the payment of this guarantee, 29 billion, considered. the remuneration would be about 100 million euros and we could, in parallel, give a grant to the eib depending on the projects it presents to us. and as regards the guarantees, i would point out that with the stability fund of 60 billion euros and the 30 billion, we are practically one year away from the budget committed by the european union in terms of guarantees.
author. - mr president, commissioner, i have joined this oral question because it seems to me of the utmost importance that the european commission, and the european union in particular, should be transparent and irreproachable on the question of lobbying. you know that brussels is the lobbying capital of the world, ahead of washington. there are more lobbyists in brussels than in washington. and one of the ways in which lobbyists can exert their influence on the commission is through these so-called expert groups. i am on the committee on economic and monetary affairs. you have, for example, a group of experts in banking. ninety-five percent of the members of this panel are bankers, and not just any bankers, only the bankers from the financial and investment bank, the market bank, and all the big american banks -- j.p. morgan, bank of america, goldman sachs -- are represented. on the other hand, there are no ngos, there are no unions in this group of experts. the idea that the commission should be advised only by commercial bankers, and in particular by american commercial bankers, to change banking rules seems to me completely surreal after the financial crisis we have experienced. so there are very specific questions, very specific points in this oral question that we ask you: are you going to change the composition of these panels? will you make sure that the accounts are made public, that conflicts of interest are avoided? in the european parliament, this is a completely cross-party issue. there are members of the left, members of the right, members of the environment, members of the liberal left who are very interested in these issues. why didn't you involve us in the reforms you've been making?
author. - mr president, commissioner, i fully agree with what my colleagues have said, and in particular with mr de jong and mr canfin. i can only regret that parliament was not consulted before a final decision on revision was taken. the subject of transparency and expertise is one we debate very regularly, particularly in the committee on health and the environment, where i have experience in my field that is roughly comparable to that which pascal canfin has just expressed. i would like to stress two points, commissioner. first, the question of the balance of the groups. this is an extremely important subject. we have a very uneven composition: many very large companies, very few smes, and above all the industrial sector and not civil society. this weight of the groups obviously has an impact on the decisions which the commission is called upon to take, since it is based on the reports of the experts. if these reports were not of interest, they would obviously not be consulted. the rebalancing in favour of a representation of what european society is all about is therefore absolutely essential and i do not see any proposal in these new rules for the benefit of smes or civil society. the second question is the selection of external experts. it is absolutely essential that we know, or at least that you know, perfectly, who is speaking to you and from where. when an expert presents himself as an independent expert and is in fact the fake nose of a lobby, it is clear that the expertise he gives cannot be taken as evidence. it is therefore absolutely essential that the supervision and control of declarations of interest be extremely rigid so that if an expert is involved as an industry expert, at least things are clear. if he is speaking as a professor when he is actually the representative of an industry, then things are no longer clear and they are not admissible. i think the issue of conflicts of interest is essential, and we have a new illustration of this with a big problem at the medicines agency which i think we will have the opportunity to discuss again. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to restore our confidence in the experts who are the basis for the decisions that are being taken.
mr president, the work of consultation and consultation of experts carried out by the european commission must be absolutely flawless from the point of view of transparency, because it is a dangerous exercise. indeed, members representing an interest, chosen according to their specific tasks and type of expertise, may have the same interests without reflecting the general public interest. the commission must therefore be particularly attentive to their representativeness, but more than that, it should encourage contradiction. i find it unacceptable that among these members there are many ngos with similar interests and fields of activity. working documents, minutes and agendas of meetings should also be published to allow for consultation by the general public, elected officials and entities not primarily concerned by the work of the group but which will be so affected from time to time. the opaque nature of the work of the expert groups cannot lead to reliable results, and i am thinking in particular of the expert groups of dg sanco. finally, it seems to me that in order to ensure the transparency of its operation, the commission will have to involve parliament in the revision of the framework for its expert groups and similar bodies. transparency is not just the business of the european commission, but of european citizens, as article 9 of the treaty recalls.
in writing. in the same way as i voted in favour of the eu-south korea free trade agreement, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation implementing its bilateral safeguard clause. it is, in my view, an indispensable complement to the agreement, as it guarantees the reintroduction of customs duties in the event of a harmful increase in imports of a particular product, thus responding to the concerns we had expressed in the discussions before its conclusion in september 2009. the reintroduction of most-favoured-nation duties can be requested by member states as well as by the european parliament or the associations representing the industry concerned at european level, giving companies a real opportunity to react.
in writing. i take advantage of the vote on this report on eib financing for projects outside the european union to denounce a very serious matter to which european shipbuilders have drawn our attention: the financing by this public bank of shipbuilding in korea by a yard which practices broken prices and which benefited from a public bailout a few years ago. it is not unreasonable for the european investment bank to support the union's external policies through its loans and guarantees, but it is absolutely unacceptable for it to go against european economic interests and to contribute to the deindustrialisation of our countries. the commission and the member states must act!
in writing. the eib does not meet the minimum requirements to ensure that its investments are socially, ecologically and even ethically responsible. the successive scandals over the financing of offshore subsidiaries do not seem to worry the commission, nor do dictatorships, as long as they are profitable, as in the libyan case. the report does not deal with ecological and social issues. it proposes to support projects as harmful as desertec or invest in med. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the safeguard clause accompanying the free trade agreement with korea, even though it appears to be insufficient and its implementation is haphazard. i voted against the agreement itself. opening our borders without protection to imports which will directly compete with our products is suicidal, particularly in the automobile sector. the sturdy report's explanatory statement, which claims that this will have only a minimal impact on employment while providing for the massive mobilisation of all the instruments of the european union to mitigate the consequences of job losses, is either a rare incoherence or a rare cynicism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea because it will be a real benefit for european businesses. their exports to korea are expected to increase by almost 40%, and exports of industrial and agricultural products will be exempt from customs duties by up to eur 1.6 billion per year. in addition, any adverse effects on the european economy could be limited by the implementation of a safeguard clause. finally, the agreement marks the beginning of a new generation of free trade agreements, with a chapter on sustainable development committing both parties to comply with ilo conventions, and provisions setting out the conditions for the effective participation of civil society.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which i consider to be fair and balanced. the egyptians see their legitimate expectations crowned with success. the departure of mr mubarak is a necessary but not sufficient condition for egypt to move towards democracy and human rights. the transition is being handled by the military, which is giving itself six months to meet the challenge. during the 18 days of protests that led to this result, egypt suffered economic losses that worsened by the day. the european union must help egypt to ensure that the gains of the revolution are not destroyed by a violent economic and social crisis. so far, the eu has mobilized significant resources under the european neighbourhood policy for little, and the image of the eu is not very good. yet our role is still vital. let's not belittle ourselves. the peculiarity of revolutions is that they always seem inevitable a posteriori and impossible a priori. but self-criticism is legitimate and we are on the right track, the council and the commission have expressed their wish to rethink the european neighbourhood policy in depth.
in writing. the last few weeks have been historic. in this sense, after tunisia, what has just happened in egypt gives rise to immense hope, especially among young people. without hesitation, the european union must take full account of the situation and support the process of democratization. these events should also encourage us to renew our partnership agreements so that we do not remain on the margins of the movement. it is up to the european parliament to ensure that the speeches and actions converge towards a european policy that is legible and identifiable towards egypt and the region as a whole.
in writing. following the wave of unprecedented revolutionary movements in the southern mediterranean countries, which, like in tunisia and egypt, have led to the fall of their governments, the european union must re-examine its vision and its relations with these countries. although a little late, the joint resolution we adopted on thursday 17 february 2011 was necessary because it sends a strong message to the egyptian people, showing that the european union supports their aspirations and is ready to help them in the country's democratic transition and to support their economic development.
in writing. the wave of protests in egypt in recent weeks, which led to the resignation of president hosni mubarak, marks an important milestone in the country's political transition. by supporting the joint resolution of the european parliament, i wish to express my solidarity with the egyptian people and pay tribute to their courage and determination in their struggle for access to democracy. it seems to me essential that the eu and the member states actively support a rapid transition to democratic governance, in particular by setting up a task force involving the european parliament to respond to the demands of the egyptian actors in this transition. furthermore, events in egypt and tunisia, and those currently taking place in other countries, show the need for europe to revise its european neighbourhood policy (enp) so that its assistance to its partners is strictly conditional on respect for human rights and democratic principles. the revision of this policy must be accompanied by the development of a set of policy criteria which neighbouring countries should meet in order to achieve a higher status in their relations with the eu.
in writing. it is curious that, in relation to russia, the european parliament is either complacent or what i would call 'anti-russian', motivated first by anti-sovietism and therefore by primary anti-communism. it is time to realise that the berlin wall fell more than 20 years ago and that the regime in place has nothing in common with its predecessors. but it is a regime that has nothing to do with the rule of law and is always based on the most basic human rights. to me, there is no reason to treat russia differently from other countries in the world. at the very least, it should denounce the violations of freedom of expression and the malfunctioning of the judicial system. this resolution is too accommodating of the russian government, and in particular of dmitri medvedev. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ahead of the march european council and the presentation by member states of their national objectives in april, we have decided on the 2020 strategy. this strategy is only a paper strategy for the moment, and the more time passes, the more likely it seems that the failure of the lisbon strategy will be repeated. that is why we must react: say yes to ambitious objectives, but not without the budgetary means! objectives must be accompanied by concrete budgetary commitments! otherwise, how can we do anything but a paper strategy? whether in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework or in the debate on the eu's own resources, parliament will have to be heard to match the laudable objectives of the 2020 strategy with adequate funding opportunities.
in writing. this resolution endorses the lisbon strategy for social inclusion, of which europe 2020 is the continuation. worse, it facilitates the placing of national budgets under the auspices of the european semester and promotes free trade. i vote against it.
in writing. the employment guidelines are synonymous with raising the retirement age and making the labour market more flexible. while this resolution has the merit of reminding the eu that wage policy is a state competence, it nevertheless endorses the above. i therefore vote against.
in writing. this report validates the harmful employment guidelines of the commission and the council. it is a de facto endorsement of the eu's authoritarianism in terms of pension increases, labour market flexibility and budget and wage cuts. the reporter's good, too. she is a member of a party that calls itself socialist. i vote against it.
in writing. in our report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the framework of food security, adopted last december, we affirmed that the right to food security is a fundamental human right, and that the eu has a duty to feed its citizens. in line with our position, it is our duty today to denounce the rise in food prices. prices have skyrocketed in the last seven months. the causes are many, but the main focus should be on price volatility and speculation in basic foodstuffs, which destabilise our economies and create uncertainty. stopping speculation is a dire necessity, as is fighting climate change. food security and environmental and climatic conditions are closely linked, making coordination of environmental and agricultural policies essential. we must also be concerned about the developing countries and help them to become self-sufficient in food, contrary to everything that has been done in recent years. the challenge is enormous: in europe alone, nearly 80 million people still live below the poverty line.
in writing. while food security must be affirmed as a fundamental human right, global food prices reached an all-time high in early 2011, affecting both producers and consumers in the eu and the entire world population. this trend, exacerbated by the volatility of prices caused by speculators, is completely unacceptable when we consider that more than a billion people suffer from poverty and hunger in the world. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the establishment of global regulations to prevent the violation of the right to food by speculation, reaffirms the european union's commitment to be a major player in the field of food and agriculture at world level, takes account of climate change, and encourages member states to increase the share of public aid devoted to agriculture.
author. - mr president, the arab countries are being shaken by a wave of popular uprisings which is gradually sweeping them all, and i hope this will continue. an unprecedented wave of protest against the dictatorships in power in these countries is under way. these dictatorships are usually in place with the complicity and, at best, the silence of all western regimes. no country seems to be immune from the revolt of the people, and that's a good thing. we have been slow, you have been slow to realise what is happening in these countries and you continue to do so. it took until 2 february for the european parliament to vote on a resolution on tunisia and it was only at this session that we voted on a resolution on egypt. we had asked for a resolution on algeria in the context of these emergencies. we have been denied this once again, just as for months you, or at least the vast majority of you, have refused to see what is happening in tunisia. today, at this very moment, there are protest movements in iran, in libya, where you have just given a favourable opinion, conditional, but nonetheless favourable, to a partnership agreement, but also in bahrain, yemen, to name only those we know best. yes, in yemen, where president ali abdullah saleh has only been in power for 33 years. this is democracy in the making! it is certainly much better than what is happening in libya, since mr gaddafi has been in power for 42 years! some of us said that we could not vote on a resolution today on yemen without taking account of what was happening in that country. men and women are fighting for their freedom. violence is taking place between supporters and opponents of the regime. since the beginning of the protests in late january, hundreds of people have been injured. yesterday in aden, a young protester was shot dead in clashes with police, who opened fire to disperse a rally. at this very moment, the students of saada have barricaded themselves in their campus, again surrounded by police forces, and we remain silent. we see in yemen only the problem of the death penalty for minors. i am far from giving up the idea of abolishing the death penalty, i have always been a staunch supporter of it and i consider that any so-called democratic country which is not able to abolish such a punishment is criminal and should not give a lesson in democracy and human rights, even if it is the world's leading power. yes, this death penalty is even more intolerable when it is applied to minors, especially in a country where it is not possible to establish a date of birth with certainty and where this inability is used to condemn to death, for the benefit of doubt, i dare say, as to the certainty of the date of birth proving that the person was a minor at the time of the facts. and you would like us to vote on a resolution which deals with this subject alone, a resolution which merely stresses in its seventh paragraph the need to carry out reforms as wished by, i quote, 'so many demonstrators'? it's a little weak. so with my green colleagues we have tabled three amendments to update this resolution and i hope that together we can vote for a resolution worthy of the name.
author. - mr president, we are now at the third resolution of the european parliament in this parliament on discrimination against the lgbt population in uganda. today we are dealing in particular with the case of mr david kato, whose murder has been strongly denounced by many ngos and international bodies. mr kato was a symbol of the fight against homophobia in his country, and in particular of the denunciation of the bahati bill which goes a long way in hardening the criminalization of homosexuality since it envisages sentences of up to life imprisonment and even the death penalty. we must pay tribute to him, but we must also think of all those whose pictures, names and addresses have been thrown into public disgrace by a scumbag whose name i shall not even mention. the climate towards the lgbt community is unbearable, exacerbated by the religious authorities, and especially the evangelical fundamentalists close to the head of state. tomorrow there will be presidential elections in uganda. although there are eight candidates, the incumbent president is already confident of his re-election and has announced that he will jail anyone who challenges the election. the elections are an opportunity to remind the ugandan state of its human rights obligations, to tell it that the fight against discrimination of any kind, including against lgbt people, is an integral part of these universal values and that we should all respond to mr ban ki-moon's call to make the decriminalisation of homosexuality a universal struggle for human rights.
mr president, i would like to speak on the basis of article 16 of the treaty on european union. this week, on the initiative of the head of state to whom i belong, nicolas sarkozy - who shows his great sense of community - we have the proposal for an extraordinary european council meeting on friday. it is customary, under the treaties, for the general affairs council to prepare the meetings of the european council. i have not seen a meeting of the general affairs council on the agenda this week to prepare for this extraordinary meeting of the european council, and at a time of great democratic movements i believe that the peoples of europe must be associated with the heads of state in european positions on these great issues.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to make two formal remarks: the rapporteur has just praised the work of all those who have collaborated on this report, and it is true that there has been real collaboration, particularly in our group, mrs hübner, who was the fictitious one. however, i have learned that the socialist group has tabled an alternative resolution, which means that the vote will be on a document which has not been the subject of any consultation. the second political point - and this is not my usual point - is that we are creating an artificial opposition here, particularly with regard to the financial transaction tax. the position of our group is clear: we are in favour of such a tax at world level; we agree that europe should try it if it is not possible at world level. we simply do not think we can take such a decision without a serious impact assessment to see whether the competitiveness of europe's financial centres would be affected. in this respect, i should like to make it clear, commissioner, that the epp's position is not a position of buying time or a waiting position. we are asking urgently and forcefully that the impact assessment which we have already spoken about on several occasions in this parliament be carried out as soon as possible so that the decision we can take is an informed one. i believe that there is, on the one hand, the advertising effect of certain forums in european newspapers, and then the reality of a serious management which requires a good knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages and a political decision which must be taken as quickly as possible.
mr president, i would like to commend the work of our colleague mrs podimata, who has indeed tackled a number of very sensitive subjects. i shall not speak of eurobonds, which i myself have dealt with in my report on economic governance. i would like to raise three questions on the financial transaction tax. the first is whether we need new revenue and whether we have the right to speak in this parliament from time to time about the revenue side. my answer is yes. there are taboos in europe but i believe that we will not be able to think about how to get out of the crisis if we are not able - and i welcome the work done by commissioner šemeta on other taxes - to tackle this subject without taboos. secondly, do we need a financial transaction tax? i think it's a lead that's extremely interesting. i would like to refer, for example, to work that has recently come from the european central bank in the commission's consultation on mifid: the whole passage on high-frequency trading, that is, those extremely fast operations done by computers. we can see that there are recent and dangerous developments and i agree with what mr ferber said about the need to distinguish between market action which provides liquidity and more speculative and probably harmful actions. thirdly, and this is my last point, do we need global or european rules? i'd like to know what "worldwide" means. are we going to wait for the world's last dictatorship to give its consent before deciding something in the european union? are we hiding behind globalization to avoid taking responsibility? i think that would be completely unreasonable. obviously we must take account of the danger of relocation - we are not irresponsible - but on the other hand this parliament must not decide under threat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today shows real progress. i am thinking in particular of the eurobonds which the union will need to finance the eu 2020 strategy. the right-wing has unfortunately rejected the principle of a financial transaction tax at european level in the econ committee, despite having voted for it in june. its arguments against a european financial transaction tax as a prelude to a global tax are the same as those developed by the defenders of tax havens. a tax applied only at european level would be a disaster for our financial sector, she said. the capital would flee europe, she added. i want to answer that question: so what? the volume of financial transactions is now excessive in relation to the needs of the real economy. this tax applied to europe alone would help deflate the financial bubble. finally, if the volume of speculative capital transactions, such as the credit derivatives which caused the crisis, were to be reduced even slightly, this would make it possible to improve the balance sheet of our banks considerably. they would have a much greater incentive to finance the real economy. i would point out to those who are defending the absence of impact studies that no impact studies were carried out before the proliferation of derived products was authorized. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for all members of the european parliament to take responsibility. the european union must not remain in the wake of a g20 dominated by the united states and china. it must indicate the direction in which we are to reform our financial system. that is why i cannot support a text which would bypass a financial transaction tax.
mr president, my first words will be to commend the work of our rapporteur, mrs podimata, but also the immense work of mrs hübner, on behalf of our political group. we have the data on the contribution on financial transactions. first fact: transactions and speculation represent between 80 and 100 times the real economy. second fact: we have the millennium development goals that are not funded: poverty, water, forest, infrastructure, education, health (300 billion dollars by 2015). so we are in favour of this contribution, but tomorrow, when we vote, we will need a massive vote. nothing would be more dangerous than a parliament that is procrastinating. we need a massive vote and we need the contribution to be community and not intergovernmental. as far as eurobonds are concerned, we have three categories. the one which could finance the sovereign debt is a mistake: we will never find a political majority to finance the sovereign debt of the states at the level of the european union. the second category is the financing of the crisis management mechanism, which has become permanent. we need eurobonds in this respect. i raise the question of political, and therefore parliamentary, control of these eurobonds. finally, yes, we need eurobonds to invest. a continent that does not invest is a continent that retreats. all over the planet, the continents are investing. we need these eurobonds, these project bonds.
mr president, at a time when we have just emerged from the worst financial crisis the world has known since 1929, europe cannot sit idly by. what i would like to say is that the regulation of the international financial system and the idea of a tax on financial transactions is not a left-wing issue. this is not a matter for socialists alone. this is a matter which concerns the whole of our house. what i would like to say in this connection is that i regret that the socialist group is proposing an alternative resolution at a time when we have the capacity, each political group, to agree together to propose two things: the first is to support the principle of a global financial transaction tax, in continuity with what the g20 is proposing, and which is the current g20 road map. the second thing is to study the possibility of introducing this tax at european level after an impact assessment has been made. this impact assessment is not meant to be a game or to save time. it is simply to establish that tax in good conditions. what i would like to say here is that i regret that in the name of partisan and private interests we do not have the capacity to create a strong movement in the european parliament. i believe that the issue of regulation of the international financial system is too serious to be a partisan issue and i believe that the right and the centre, as well as the left, have the opportunity to play their part on this issue and above all to weigh in on the debate and to be bold, responsible in also proposing the introduction of such a tax not with ideology but with pragmatism.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i should like to begin by saying that we are doing well here in strasbourg. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mr rivellini for his report and for the negotiations with the council and the commission since 2009. after being suspended due to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the new regulation on implementing measures, this report transposes the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean at first reading. the recommendations adopted by the gfcm consist of imposing certain restrictions on fishing in the gulf of lion, in particular on the setting of nets, the issuing of fishing licences and the protection of natural habitats. this report is essential because it determines fishing zones for the mediterranean. the text describes minimum mesh size in the mediterranean for fishing gear and in the black sea, and prohibits the use of towed dredges and trawls beyond a depth of 1000 metres. i am of course very pleased with this measure. for certain towed gears, the minimum mesh size shall be either a square mesh of 40 millimetres at the trawl pocket or, at the duly justified request of the vessel owner, a diamond mesh of 50 millimetres with a recognised selectivity for size equal to or greater than that of square mesh of 40 millimetres. the rapporteur also called for the necessary updating of the current regulation on implementing acts and for a strict clarification of parliament's position on this matter. you said so yourself, commissioner, just now. the commission is to present to the european parliament and the council, by 30 june 2012, a report on the implementation of this provision, on the basis of which it will propose adaptations. i hope we can have this report before the second reading of this text.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with article 218 (10) of the lisbon treaty, parliament must now give its consent to international agreements negotiated by the european commission. i would remind you that parliament must be kept informed at all times of the negotiation procedure for the agreement. the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania is to be renewed on 31 december 2012. this fisheries partnership agreement involves the highest financial contribution from the european union. it is also the largest fishing opportunity with 900 000 tonnes of catches. this is the only agreement with guinea-bissau which offers fishing opportunities for cephalopods and crustaceans. however, some problems remain in the framework of this agreement. a recent visit to mauritania with the committee on fisheries, which you mentioned, madam commissioner, confirms this. on the one hand, the lack of infrastructure, including a port at nouakchott, which affects the development of local fisheries and the european union's investments more broadly. on the other hand, some european vessels have also been seized by the mauritanian authorities, and this without justification. in addition, alternative methods to the vms satellite control system provided for in the agreement are used by the mauritanian authorities, which makes the work of shipowners more difficult. they also consider the private fee too high in relation to the actual fishing opportunities available to them. the technical measures applicable to european shipowners, who are discriminated against in comparison with other fleets fishing in mauritanian waters, will also need to be clarified. finally, i hope that we do not underestimate the chinese influence in the mauritanian fishing sector, which is exercised through joint ventures, under the mauritanian flag, and which obviously affects this fishery, which is beyond any health, economic and social control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we must be able to quantify and control this fishery in order to contribute to the development of local fisheries and to facilitate the work of european shipowners. i think that's a must. i would remind you that the members of the committee on fisheries wish to receive the ex post in extenso evaluation of the agreement as soon as possible and to be able to attend the meetings of the joint committees in order to be able to observe the implementation of the agreement. i repeat, mr president, we are very well in strasbourg, where this house has its rightful place.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank commissioner damanaki for being here this evening to answer this oral question on the atlantic strategy. in june 2010, the council requested the commission to develop a european strategy for the atlantic region by june 2011. i have taken the initiative, together with several colleagues, of preparing an oral question to the commission on this strategy. this oral question was first signed by more than 50 members from all groups and i would like to thank them for their support. a resolution will also be tabled on behalf of the committee on regional development. i thank the coordinators of the various political groups for their cooperation, which has enabled a broad consensus to be reached. i also thank the members who have helped to enrich this text with their amendments. the atlantic region is characterised by particular features. firstly, it is a dynamic maritime area, thanks to maritime transport, fishing and marine energy. it is also an area whose environment is fragile and remains to be preserved - i am thinking for example of the scourge of green algae - and which is subject to the consequences of climate change. it is also a peripheral area within the european union with problems of accessibility and connectivity and a small number of large urban centres. these particular features give rise to problems which transcend national borders and for which political responses must be sought at european level. the resolution calls on the commission to propose that the atlantic strategy take the form of an integrated strategy addressing both maritime and territorial issues. the maritime dimension is of paramount importance, since the atlantic territories have in common that they face the sea. links with the integrated maritime policy should be encouraged. the territorial dimension of these strategies is equally important. this concerns issues such as decentralisation, the development of urban and rural areas, and the strengthening of land-sea links. the atlantic strategy could be part of the territorial cooperation objective of cohesion policy and be based on an integrated, cross-cutting and territorial approach. this will allow for better policy coordination between different levels of governance by targeting particularly relevant issues. the strategy should be open to all regions of the european union bordering the atlantic, including the adjacent sub-basins and the outermost regions of macaronesia. the external dimension of the strategy, in particular in the areas of maritime security and surveillance and international trade relations, should also be taken into account. the atlantic strategy will need to promote better coordination of objectives and means by being closely linked to the european union 2020 strategy and future post-2014 community policies. it is not a question of spending more but rather of spending better through an atlantic sweep of existing policies. to this end, the strategy will need to be well articulated with regional policy and the integrated maritime policy. it will also have to seek synergies with other policies such as the trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, tourism, environmental protection, energy policy and the framework programme for research and development. the strategy will need to be implemented as from 2014 and coordinated with the next multiannual financial framework. the territorial dimension of the strategy will contribute to the european union's objective of territorial cohesion, in particular through action in favour of decoupling. synergies will of course have to be found with maritime policy in order to develop the land links of these regions. it is essential to strengthen the north-south connection of the atlantic front, in particular through the establishment of motorways of the sea from andalusia to scotland. at the same time, the west-west transport infrastructure will have to be developed, along the lines of high-speed railways. i hope that the commission will propose as soon as possible an action plan that will break down its priorities into concrete actions to enable coordinated implementation with european policies after 2013. it will also be essential to involve the many partners involved, in particular regional and local public authorities and civil society organisations. cooperation under the atlantic strategy will have to depend primarily on the needs of the actors concerned. the political priorities defined in this framework will therefore need to be the subject of consensus. in this respect, the european grouping of territorial cooperation could be an interesting tool to facilitate cooperation between stakeholders in the atlantic area. this is the result of parliament's reflection on this strategy. we will be attentive to the commission's next proposals and will certainly make a concrete and precise contribution to them. madam commissioner, could you, if you can, of course, tell us what the commission's priorities are, how you envisage implementing this strategy and to what extent you will take parliament's proposals into account? we are certainly in strasbourg, mr president, and it is better to repeat than to contradict ourselves.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the draft integrated strategy for the atlantic region. we need a shared approach to the use of our maritime spaces, taking into account the specificities of each basin and providing a concerted response to the problems encountered. in particular, as the member for normandy, i would like to draw your attention to the specific nature of the channel, which i would like to see taken into account in the draft integrated strategy for the atlantic region. it is one of the european union's strategic sea ports, a vital passageway between the atlantic ocean and the north sea. it accounts for 20% of the world's fleet and more than 500 ships of over 300 tonnes pass through it every day. in addition to this transport activity, there is fishing, boating, the exploitation of grain and soon - and to my great satisfaction - the production of energy from offshore wind turbines. this concentration of activities requires a serious consideration of the question of maritime safety, which, in my view, must be addressed at community level also in the context of the atlantic strategy. you know that the bilateral bases on which its financing is based are now under threat. i have already warned you about this, commissioner, and i shall be particularly attentive to your replies in june.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 2005, the baltic sea issue has been of particular interest to this parliament. i am pleased that today, thanks to my colleague alain cadec, we can be the driving force behind an ambitious territorial strategy for the atlantic arc. beyond the many needs for coordination and synergy and the importance of an integrated approach to territorial problems at the macro-regional level, i would like to stress two points. territorial cooperation - objective 3 of cohesion policy - and in particular its transnational component, must support these strategies by coordinating the thinking, definition and management of projects. the states and regions, through their operational programmes, must be encouraged to participate in the actions decided upon jointly. without real political will, these strategies will unfortunately remain dead letters. if europe is not to be covered by macro-regions, it must take back the territorial constraints which the removal of frontiers has not removed.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to turn my attention to the convergence and competitiveness pact. with the eurozone summit meeting on 11 march just days away, i think it is important to say that the very idea of a convergence and competitiveness pact is a good one and highly desirable. let's get this straight. the competitiveness pact is not and will not be - at any rate, in my mind, it is clear - in the version currently being discussed, negotiated and envisaged, just another document, a mere catalogue of wishful thinking that will never see the light of day. this is a solemn affirmation of the deepening of the economic pillar of our monetary union. this will be a qualitative leap towards greater convergence between the euro area economies, towards a higher level of policy coordination, particularly in areas of national competence where these are essential to increasing our competitiveness, because the intensity of the global economic struggle makes it absolutely vital to increase the competitiveness of our region of the world. this growth is achieved by strengthening the fight against public debts, by stabilizing our currency and by bringing our economic, social and fiscal systems closer together. the intergovernmental method has been much maligned recently and contrasted with the community method. i think that these debates are a bit sterile, a bit useless, at least disconnected from the concerns of our fellow citizens. i believe, as does president van rompuy, that there must be a european approach or no european approach at all.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would remind you that this h1n1 flu was in the news in 2009. the first cases appeared almost two years ago on 25 march 2009 and the who declared alert 6 on 11 june 2009. the who's maximum alert level triggered a series of measures in europe, in particular activating very expensive and overestimated vaccination campaigns in many member states in view of the known moderate severity of the virus, as indicated by the who at the time in may 2009. on the severity side, it caused about 2,900 deaths in europe up to the end of april 2010 - figures that are actually much lower than the seasonal influenza mortality, which is estimated to be about 40,000 to 220,000 deaths per year depending on the year. at the same time, the estimated costs are about eur 1.3 billion in the united kingdom and more than eur 700 million in france, according to the latest report of the court of auditors. the evaluation of the management of h1n1 influenza shows that there has been a disproportionate response from the european union and member states. so my colleagues and i have tried - and i thank them for their amendments - to produce a constructive report which seeks to restore the confidence of european citizens in their health care system. the report focuses on three main points: cooperation, transparency and independence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. future influenza prevention plans, for example, need to be revised to be more coherent and effective and to be made sufficiently autonomous and flexible to adapt in real time to the latest available data. such flexibility would have saved the public treasury a great deal of unnecessary expense. at the same time, the role and responsibility of key actors in managing health threats must be clarified. the very definition of pandemic needs to be revised to include the notion of severity and not just geographical spread. in fact, the who has informed us that it has committed itself to this. the group purchase of vaccines is possible but on the condition that manufacturers remain responsible for the quality, safety and efficacy of their products. there is no question of the states becoming responsible for the side effects of vaccines considered to be safe. as regards independence, the accelerated authorisation procedure highlighted the problem of the lack of available scientific data. studies on vaccines and antiviral therapies should be conducted independently of pharmaceutical companies. as regards transparency, there is a need for full transparency on the evaluation of medicines used in health emergencies with full access to available clinical trials. all declarations of interest of the experts responsible for the evaluation shall be made public. i have one regret: i would have liked to have had them checked by the agencies which employ these experts, but this amendment was not adopted. finally, i would like to point out that the cases of narcolepsy observed in finland and sweden in children following injections of gsk's h1n1 flu vaccines are of concern to us. first of all, it shows us that there are always areas of uncertainty, whether it is the actual toxicity of vaccines and adjuvants or the emergence of a risk that is ignored by the manufacturer himself. finland has suspended the use of this vaccine until further information is received. this is not the position of the emea the european medicines agency which prefers to wait until more information is available before issuing any opinion restricting the use of this vaccine. i would like the commission to take up finland's position. it is time that the precautionary principle is for the benefit of patients and not always for the benefit of companies.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, having been rapporteur for the s&d group on the opinion of the imco committee, i welcome the text adopted by the environment committee, which incorporates many of our proposals and those of the associated committees. in this respect, i think the estrela report is an excellent report, which emphasises the essential elements of our european social and health model: equal access to quality care for all throughout the territory, better management of reproductive health, monitoring of the efficacy and quality of medicines by independent pharmacovigilance systems, and above all the need for substantial public funding for health in this time of crisis. health is not a commodity like any other and it is the duty of our social systems to ensure access to care for the poorest. i am therefore shocked by the votes for deletion requested by the epp and efd groups on the points i have just mentioned. this approach has a touch of reactionary neoliberalism, and i hope that the final vote will safeguard the spirit of this report and do honour to parliament.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with a certain satisfaction that i present to you this report on taxation and development. it is an important step in a struggle which began long ago and which i am continuing today in the european parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on development, with whom we have had a particularly fruitful cooperation. i hope that it will be confirmed in the votes tomorrow. severely affected by the financial and economic crisis and by the rise in agricultural commodity prices, developing countries need new and substantial sources of finance more than ever. in this context of global crisis, mobilising tax revenues, the oldest source of financing for development, is a major challenge. effective tax systems do more than fund essential public services. by promoting the transparent and responsible use of public revenues, they are also the basis of a responsible democratic system. the introduction of a fair, progressive and transparent tax should not in any way lead to the abolition or reduction of official development assistance. this should not be another excuse for member states to be increasingly inclined to reduce the share of their gdp devoted to oda. official development assistance, although imperfect and largely improvable, is nonetheless indispensable for countries hard hit by economic and climate crises. it is not a question of replacing aid, but of redirecting aid towards the development of effective tax systems in which multinationals contribute their real profits to enable poor countries to take back their development, reduce poverty, compensate for the loss of customs resources due to the liberalisation of markets and in the long term to free themselves from foreign aid. but the countries of the south are not the only victims of their inefficient tax systems. they are also affected by the tax dumping imposed by the bretton woods institutions, the prices of illicit transfers and the existence of tax havens. the loss of tax revenue is enormous, estimated at more than ten times the amount of aid given by the rich countries. this report is a reminder of that. the oecd guidelines are far from sufficient and are even dangerous. by allowing non-cooperative jurisdictions to leave the grey lists simply by signing cooperation agreements that do not require automatic exchange of information, they give tax havens the illusion of legality and legitimize a system that is damaging to public finances in both the south and the north. the elimination of tax havens is an essential step in the development of these countries and must be the european union's top priority. the european union must take up its responsibilities; the european union, like the united states, must establish clear and binding legislation, with real sanctions mechanisms to stop tax havens, which are weapons of mass destruction for the development of poor countries. it must prevent profit and transfer price manipulation, particularly by european companies which use and abuse harmful tax systems. it should require the establishment of a transparent and binding international mechanism, obliging all multinational companies, particularly extractive companies, to automatically declare the profits they make and the taxes they pay in each of the countries in which they operate. it is a necessary first step to stop those who profit from the misery of the people of the south. this is an essential step towards restoring the european union's credibility.
mr president, i too, as the fictitious rapporteur of my group, would like to thank the rapporteur for the working conditions we have been able to discuss with him on this matter. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is indeed a strategic issue today. we've already talked about china. one figure: in 2010, the chinese bought 49 percent of the soybean pie that was on the market. the forecast for 2011 is that the same customers will buy 57% of the volumes placed on the market. it is therefore a question of european independence which is being asked in the medium term. let us imagine for a moment that some regions with very intensive agriculture are deprived of imported soya for eight days. what would happen? there is an urgent need to develop these productions in our territory. my country, under article 68, put in place a policy in 2010; this policy has shown the good elasticity of production to the policies. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. madam president, i would first like to commend the courageous commitment and considerable work of my colleague, mariya nedelcheva, rapporteur on this dossier. the fight for equality between men and women is a daily struggle in all our states. my generation is one of the first to see women in high positions of responsibility, including elected office. i am therefore pleased to see that women today are involved in many areas which were closed to them until recently. however, inequalities persist and major struggles remain, most notably the persistent wage gap and the role of women in the management of large enterprises. finally, i would like to stress the importance of ensuring that every woman has access to quality reproductive health care. since the beginning of my political career, i have fought for women to have access to ivf in a safe medical setting. contraceptive methods must also be readily available to them. that is why i am in favour of free distribution, particularly for minors.
madam president, you know this because you yourself have been disqualified by the european court of justice in an immunity case concerning me. i would hope that the leniency shown to mr brook in a financial matter will also be shown to the minority members of this house in their freedom of expression. this equality, which reigned in this parliament twenty years ago, honored him and his committee on legal affairs. unfortunately, the immunity regime has evolved in a partisan way which i personally regret and i hope our institution will get back on its feet. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i regret that there is some confusion in this podimata report, which raises a number of important questions for the financing of innovation. i would ask the s&d group to withdraw the alternative motion it has proposed so that the joint drafting work that has been done can be completed. secondly, i regret that a rather artificial opposition has arisen on the question of the financial tax and that there are two amendments which are very close to each other. i regret that parliament is not able to express its approval of this tax on a mass scale under conditions which are reasonable in the light of europe's competitiveness.
in writing. taxation is a duty from which no citizen should be able to evade. that was brought to mr. brok's attention. immunity is not a safeguard for common law offences but a protection of freedom of expression. so i'm glad he's made up his mind. the report is nevertheless unpleasant in more than one way. 5000 euros, mr. speroni, is not nothing, and no one pushed mr. brok into this situation. so the accusations of persecution for "accidental omission of a modest sum" seem to me to be completely misplaced. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the directive on general product safety. i am in favour of clarifying the existing legislative framework, which currently consists of three levels of legal acts. in order to avoid any uncertainty for market surveillance authorities, a common european framework should be established for all products present on or entering the internal market. in order to discourage economic operators from acting illegally, it is also important to take action both in terms of sanctions against those who deliberately place dangerous or non-compliant products on the market and in terms of transparency: any ban on products should be published. another crucial element is addressed in this report: product safety in a global perspective. in this context, the european union should set itself the objective of improving the exchange of information on dangerous products originating from third countries, such as china and india, in order to address the issue of the safety and traceability of products before they reach the european market.
, the european union had to draw the consequences of the disputed management of h1n1 influenza in europe in 2009-2010 and adopt the necessary measures to avoid further disproportionate reactions. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which provides for more cooperation, more independence and more transparency in order to respond effectively to possible future pandemics. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the prevention of the spread of the virus, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2007-2013. the text also calls on who to include the severity criterion in its definition of pandemic. more independence, in the sense that the text provides for the european centre for disease prevention and control to exercise its powers as an independent agency, in order to have scientific studies that are not influenced by pharmaceutical companies. finally, more transparency, in the sense that the text calls for an evaluation of the effectiveness of vaccination strategies. this text will therefore allow for more coherent communication between the member states.
in writing. the management of the announced h1n1 influenza outbreak has been a failure. lessons must therefore be drawn from this crisis to better respond to any future pandemic threat. it is clear that better cooperation between member states, but also with the european institutions, will be needed to provide a more effective response in the event of a pandemic. similarly, the role of european health risk management structures needs to be clarified and the who needs to be asked to revise the definition of criteria for triggering a global pandemic alert. finally, it would seem appropriate to create a mechanism for collective procurement of vaccines by member states. the last essential point: there must be complete transparency with regard to the experts who advise the european public health authorities, in order to put an end to potential conflicts of interest.
in writing. the h1n1 flu has been extremely instructive. she first taught us how to throw money out the window. the cost of the so-called swine flu (€900 million according to the court of auditors!) is not due to the number of victims. it was ten times less than the usual seasonal flu. but it is true that these 2,000 victims a year, the elderly or already sick in general, nobody cares. they're so much less exotic. she then taught us how you could totally mask a lack of competence with alarmist speeches and gestures. tens of millions of doses ordered... and useless. a mass vaccination that was organized against common sense. the commission's communication was so excessive or contradictory that the french turned away with suspicion, and rightly so, from the injunctions that were being made to them. a suspicion of convergence of interests between those who made the political decisions and those who derived financial benefits from them. she also taught us that no matter what mistakes, carelessness or worthlessness a minister in france had, there was no reason for him to resign. and the daily news from the french government shows that nothing, absolutely nothing, has changed in this respect!
in writing. thanks to the amendments of my political group (epp), this report makes constructive proposals to draw lessons from the h1n1 crisis, in particular by strengthening european coordination. the initial report contained a number of inaccuracies and could have led to people not being vaccinated. the report as adopted today is aimed at restoring the confidence of our citizens in the management of health crises. health professionals will need to be more involved in the development and implementation of a pandemic prevention and control strategy. we can no longer afford such confusion and suspicion around vaccination campaigns. improving communication will be essential, taking into account the ease with which unscientific rumours circulate on new media and the internet. the flu was less severe than expected, and fortunately so, but it would be dangerous to underestimate the degree of unpredictability and potential severity of future pandemics.
in writing. the report has the merit of denouncing the opacity of the european medicines agency and the links between pharmaceutical companies and the expertise on vaccines and antivirals. it is therefore a pity that it does not ask for the agency's activities to be suspended pending a complete and effective reform. i vote to encourage the author to go further next time.
in writing. on this day of the centenary of international women's day, i voted against the appointment of mr harald wögerbauer because of the lack of parity in the european court of auditors.
in writing. in the current context of budgetary constraints, thinking about innovative financing is not only necessary, it is vital. i am in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax, ideally at world level, but not at european level. i am pleased that this provision has been adopted by a majority of my colleagues.
in writing. with this vote, parliament is setting a new milestone in the march towards global financial regulation. we have delivered a strong message in favour of the plans of the french g20 presidency. as the economy shows the first signs of recovery, we must all work together to promote a thoughtful and balanced model of liberalism. the european left had tried to appropriate the idea of taxing financial transactions. but she was going the wrong way. europeans are very pragmatic. today's vote shows that this notion transcends all political divisions.
in writing. more than three years after the crisis, there is very little in the way of regulation of financial markets. in this sense, a new tax would open up new sources of financing and regulate the most questionable financial practices. let us be clear, it is impossible today to say that what happened three years ago will not happen again in the future. it's hopeless. i know. the question is therefore whether europe has the critical size to act in a concrete way. i think so and consider that at this level, the sooner the better!
in writing. i welcome the support given by the european parliament to the introduction of a european-wide financial transaction tax in the plenary vote. a financial transaction tax at european level will penalize highly speculative and socially unnecessary financial transactions while ensuring the european union an annual income of €200 billion. this vote goes against the competitiveness pact. instead of sanctioning governments and citizens, we should tax financial markets. the commission and the council must take note of this urgently.
in writing. the current economic crisis has highlighted weaknesses in financial sector supervision. so we need new tools and new tax policies. thus, the financial system has generated significant profits from speculative transactions, even though it is not subject to any taxation. by voting in favour of a financial transaction tax, the proceeds of which could be used for development aid, the european parliament has shown that it wants to put an end to this injustice. of course, this tax should be implemented internationally, but if it is not, we ask that the eu take responsibility by implementing it at home. europe would thus be an example, both in terms of innovative financing and in terms of solidarity with developing countries. it is now up to the european commission to present us with a legislative proposal which meets the expectations expressed by a very large majority of our parliament.
in writing. for more than 10 years, the european socialists have been fighting for a financial transaction tax in the european parliament. the benefits would be manifold: discouraging financial speculation, but also financing aid to developing countries and their adaptation to climate change, while contributing to the budget of the european union. today the world situation has changed: the crisis has made the need to stabilise financial markets even more acute, and the european union needs new resources to deal with this crisis, through recovery rather than austerity. at the same time, the mainstream movement in favour of the tax is growing: more and more governments are in favour of it, and the european parliament has already voted several times in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax. the new vote in favour of the tax is an important step forward: parliament says that action must be taken now at european level, even if there is no agreement at world level. the parliament's request is clear, the vote was wide: we must now act and implement the financial transaction tax.
in writing. i voted for the amendments and the parts of the text concerning taxation of financial transactions. in fact, i voted in principle to involve the financial institutions in bearing the cost of the crisis for which they are responsible and in the cleanup of our public finances. but the problem with the report, which i voted against, is that, far from being innovative, it is primarily intended to create new taxes, if possible managed at european or world level, or at least with international bodies determining the beneficiaries and uses. there is no guarantee that taxes on labour will be significantly reduced. i can only oppose a carbon tax at all levels, which would invariably penalise our most modest citizens, like mr sarkozy's unjust and unpopular project. the creation of a european agency responsible for issuing european bonds to pool public debts is a real bonus for the foolish, paid by the wise. finally, i regret that the section on financing development is precisely the one that denounces government corruption or tax havens, but is careful not to point the finger at the scandalous practices of multinational firms, and in particular their use of transfer prices.
in writing. the adoption of the podimata report was an opportunity for parliament to show its strong support for the introduction of a financial transaction tax at european level. until now, the european right has always rejected the socialist proposals on this subject, both in parliamentary committees and in plenary sessions. the fact that a majority of meps, and therefore a part of the right wing, have now joined this project, which has been promoted for many years by the party of european socialists, is good news and reflects the gradual realisation, in the collective spirit, of the merits of this project. the vote marks a new step in the process of establishing a financial instrument which would make it possible, in particular, to provide additional own resources to the community budget, but also to support development actions at international level. the fight is not over, however. this is a simple position of principle at the moment. beyond their speeches, we must remain vigilant as to the real will of the european heads of government, the vast majority of whom are right-wing, to introduce this taxation.
in writing. for many years we have been campaigning for a financial transaction tax. despite the many reservations that this idea may have encountered, the vote on this resolution by a large majority is an important step. by encouraging the taxation of financial transactions on a global scale and, in any case, by advocating the introduction of such a tax within the european union, parliament is laying the foundation stone for a new world financial order. to this must be added the new financial prospects that such a tax would offer, since its introduction could generate some 200 billion euros a year. this vote is a great victory, and it now remains for the international bodies to be as bold as the meps were.
in writing. taxation of financial transactions is a longstanding struggle between socialists and the european left. the adoption by a large majority of my greek colleague anni podimata's report is a testimony to the political evolution of the european parliament. this is a great victory for the european left, and one of which it can be proud. although the text has no direct legislative effect, it constitutes a decisive political step forward: henceforth, the european right in the european parliament will no longer be able to refuse the introduction of such a tax. it is a real step forward towards fiscal federalism, which is the only way for the european union to meet its objectives of growth, employment and exit from the crisis.
in writing. the idea of a financial transaction tax has been floated by the left for years. this is now a commonly held view. this concession to our theses is welcome. however, a financial transaction tax must be aimed solely at the general human interest, not at the proper functioning of free trade or the exchange of polluting rights that some call the "carbon market", as this text does. i vote against this vulgar recovery of a good idea.
in writing. i strongly supported the introduction of a global financial transaction tax when voting on the report on 'innovative finance at european and global level'. however, the possibility of applying such a tax only at european level must first be the subject of a feasibility study by the european commission. the question is whether this tax could be implemented at european level without adversely affecting european competitiveness at world level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is intended to encourage innovative financing through taxation of financial transactions, to increase the capacity of the economy to recover, to promote the transition towards green growth while supporting aid to developing countries. the economic crisis has demonstrated with great violence that it is essential to establish global financial governance in order to avoid being subjected to the vagaries of unbridled financial capitalism. this is the wish of the french g20 presidency and we must do everything we can to achieve this. financial speculation, encouraged by the absence of rules and supervision, has destroyed millions of jobs, weighed heavily on public finances, and drastically reduced the living standards of the vast majority of europeans. it is time to move beyond this short-term economic vision, in which money is king and irresponsibility is omnipresent, and which has brought us to the edge of the abyss, in order to put the financial system back in the service of the real economy and of human beings. the european union must set an example in this area, and the resolution adopted by our assembly is a strong signal to our partners.
in writing. the estrela report provides an overview of the health inequalities in the european union and the measures to be taken to reduce them. it is therefore a useful report, and i voted for it, in particular to reaffirm the intangible nature of the right to abortion and the need for easy access to contraceptive methods, even though these rights are not yet effective in all the member states of the european union. the march towards equality continues.
in writing. while we are still feeling the social consequences of the economic and financial crisis in our respective european societies, it was important to vote today for the estrela report on reducing health inequalities. the report recalls that inequalities also affect health care and that action is needed to tackle the root causes of these inequalities so that all european citizens can finally enjoy their basic social rights. citizens are not equal, whether in terms of life expectancy, poverty, social exclusion, or health risks. the report also highlights the difficulties faced by undocumented migrants in obtaining healthcare in the host countries. we therefore call on the member states to improve access to health care for all, whether citizens or non-citizens, and to coordinate their national health policies more closely. access to quality healthcare is indeed one of the most fundamental rights and should therefore be a priority for both the union and the member states, which remain competent in this area.
in writing. the principles of universality, access to high quality care, equity and solidarity must become a reality in the health systems of the european union. that is why the european parliament adopted the estrela report by a large majority. health systems in the 27 member states still show a great deal of inequality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. basic health care must be cheaper and access to medicines more affordable. inequalities between different social groups and age groups must be reduced. member states must optimise public spending on health care, focus on prevention, and propose targeted programmes for the most vulnerable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the health and safety of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the health and safety of workers.
in writing. this report contains some outrageous proposals. for example, "inculcating" healthcare staff "with an intercultural approach based on respect for diversity" in the care of their immigrant patients. the commission is also proposing to eliminate discrimination in access to assisted reproduction, in particular discrimination based on age or sexual orientation, while promoting access to abortion for all. what is dominant here is a synthesis of the culture of death and the inversion of values. and finally, to require all member states to introduce the equivalent of state medical aid, that is, free access to care for illegal immigrants. it should be remembered that in france, designed to respond to emergencies or the risk of epidemics, it is actually accessible to any illegal immigrant, for any ailment, and with minimal and unverifiable conditions. without control and without limits, this system allows for comfort treatments, encourages illegal immigration, encourages medical tourism and all sorts of fraud at an ever-increasing cost. at a time when our hospitals and medical systems are in ruins and more and more of our fellow citizens are being forced to forgo medical treatment for lack of funds, such a proposal is outrageous.
in writing. the report had to take account of age-related health inequalities, and it has now done so. these age-related health inequalities translate into limited access to adequate health care and innovative treatments. older people should be able to take medicines that have been tested for efficacy and safety in people of the same age. this group is still too excluded from clinical trials. the average age of patients participating in clinical trials for treatments for high blood pressure is 63 years old, but 44 percent of patients are over 70 years old when the problem is first diagnosed! the union and the member states must also anticipate without delay the social and economic consequences of the ageing of the european population by taking account of this demographic change.
in writing. tackling health inequalities exacerbated by the economic crisis between eu countries and regions has finally become a priority with the adoption of the estrela report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i voted in favour of a text which aims to improve access to healthcare for all, particularly for vulnerable groups, and to support medical and pharmaceutical research, and which calls on member states to stop cutting the budget for health services. the report also takes into account the gender dimension in health inequalities and improves access to reproductive care for women. these are major advances, and only the beginning of the fight against health inequalities in the eu.
in writing. ensuring access to healthcare for all, nationals and foreigners, with or without documents, is a basic principle of public security. we protect the health of each person the better if we protect the health of all. i welcome this report which recalls this public health imperative which is essential to the common welfare.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'reducing health inequalities in the european union' because i believe that there are now wide disparities between member states in health. all eu member states must, for example, guarantee women easy access to contraceptives and the right to safe abortion.
in writing. while taxation can be a reliable and sustainable source of funding through the establishment of a progressive tax regime, effective tax administration and transparent and responsible use of revenues, many developing countries fail to apply a minimum tax rate to finance their public services. the european union must therefore cooperate with these countries to promote good governance in the tax area. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which will bring about a stable, more efficient but also fairer taxation to reduce poverty in these countries, and which will also bring about a transparent, cooperative and fair international tax environment.
in writing. developing countries have seen their customs resources decline as a result of market liberalisation. these losses of resources can be offset by better governance and fairer and more efficient taxation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. better aid to these countries also means ending the tax havens that are hampering their development. clearly, fairer taxation and greater legal certainty will encourage private foreign investment and thus, in the long run, growth. however, all these measures should not lead to a reduction in official development assistance. the member states are always inclined to reduce the share of their gdp devoted to official development assistance.
in writing. the fight against offshore companies and other tax evasion is a necessity. the hedge funds have been given almost total freedom of movement by the majority in this parliament. what, then, is the meaning of the purely declarative restrictions in this text? the economic partnership agreements, negotiated by means of ignoble pressure techniques, are ruining the acp states without leaving them any chance of recovery in the long term. this report says nothing about that. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the adoption of the report on 'taxation and development - cooperation with developing countries to promote good governance in the tax area' is of particular importance with regard to the effectiveness of development aid granted by the eu member states and the european commission to developing countries. enforcing the principles of good governance in the tax area (transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition) and combating tax havens, which are a brake on the development of the least developed countries, is an absolute necessity and will be a priority of my mandate.
in writing. the european parliament expressly calls on the council and the european commission to take greater account of agricultural interests in international trade negotiations, particularly in discussions with south america, a large grain-producing region which does not always meet european quality standards. this is an essential text for me. i therefore voted in favour of this one.
in writing. european agriculture cannot continue to be abused in trade negotiations with third countries. this is the subject of the report we have just adopted, which recalls a number of principles and calls for non-trade aspects to be better integrated into the negotiations. european farmers are rightly required to comply with stringent environmental and health standards for production hygiene, even though some of their competitors are entering the european market with products that do not always meet these standards. in fact, far too often our farmers suffer from unfair competition and therefore from a distortion of competition vis-à-vis certain third countries. the commission must take account of the warnings from parliament and farmers, especially as regards the negotiations with mercosur, which risk endangering european livestock production and fruit and vegetable producers in the outermost regions.
in writing. the report on the relationship between eu agriculture and international trade shows the catastrophic loss of power of european agriculture and tries to alert the european institutions, which are responsible for this failure. it is now difficult to feed europe, the cap has become, through the commission, a graveyard for the agricultural sector. the burden on farmers is only growing day by day. the strength that once was european agriculture and its export capacity have been drastically reduced as europe opens up to agricultural products from outside whose production methods do not meet the standards europeans set for themselves. the future of agriculture is at stake and it is certainly no longer up to the union and its institutions to do so. member states must be able to help their farmers for the good of all.
in writing. while i voted in favour of this resolution, i wanted to express my commitment to a number of principles by voting in favour of it (in particular on certain amendments). i wanted to stress that in the many trade agreements currently being negotiated with various eu partners, it is essential to reach agreements that are balanced and based on the principle of reciprocity. in this sense, imports of products from third countries should comply with health, social, consumer, environmental and animal protection rules similar to those we have in the eu. in addition, far too often concessions on agriculture are made in order to obtain better market access for industrial products or services in third countries. this approach is no longer acceptable, and in my vote i wanted to reiterate that european agriculture cannot be seen as a tool for the eu's trade policy. finally, i attach particular importance to the defence of the european system for the authorization and marketing of gmos. as the attacks on this regime at the wto are increasing, it is essential that the european commission defends it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the papastamkos report on eu agriculture and international trade. i particularly wanted to support the european parliament's willingness to emphasise firmly the dangers posed by the european commission's trade strategy for eu agriculture. while many trade agreements are being negotiated between the union and some of its partners (mercosur, canada, ukraine, etc.), it is our duty to remind the european commission of the need to conclude, realistically but without naivety, trade partnerships based on the principles of free trade, of course, but also on the principle of reciprocity, both in respect of health and social rules and consumer, environmental and animal protection, and which do not endanger certain european sectors of activity. i am thinking in particular of the agricultural sector, which is too often sacrificed to industrial products and services in trade negotiations. as such, the european union must be consistent between its agricultural policy, which is under revision, and its trade policy in order to maintain a strong agricultural sector, with a view to ensuring the food security of our citizens in a context of increased market volatility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the papastamkos report, which sends a strong message about the importance of european agriculture in international negotiations. while europe needs to increase its agricultural production to ensure food security, international agreements are often negotiated at the expense of the agricultural sector. in order to know in advance the consequences of these agreements on european agriculture, we want the european commission to produce and publish in-depth impact assessments of trade agreements before negotiations begin. in addition, the eu's high standards for health, the environment and animal welfare must be applied to products entering the eu. border controls by member states must ensure that european legislation is properly implemented in this area.
in writing. the text has the merit of being concerned about citizens overseas and advocating food security. i'm sensitive to it. but this report endorses the "active promotion of the european union's agricultural interests", free trade areas and trade agreements between the eu and chiquita or dole. worse, he explicitly threatens argentina with sanctions for decisions i recommend for my country. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of paragraphs 53 and 54 of the report on european agriculture and international trade because i believe that it is the duty of the european parliament to defend european farmers and consumers against the danger posed by the massive export of poor quality agricultural products, especially from certain latin american countries. the quality of our agricultural products must not be sacrificed for purely commercial reasons.
in writing. in my vote, i wanted to reiterate my firm position that we cannot sacrifice our agricultural model on the altar of commercial considerations. the european union's desire to open up and liberalize trade with its partners should not lead us to revise our requirements for food quality and safety in favour of consumers. that is why i have insisted on the need to impose reciprocal trade, health and social rules on our agricultural trade with third countries and not to accept additional concessions without guarantees. i also reject the idea that we should let our guard down when it comes to defending the interests of european farmers. it is thanks to the work of farmers that europe has been able to forge a close link with its agriculture and its land and to achieve a level of excellence in its agricultural production. it is therefore our duty to ensure fair competition in the union's trade relations with its partners. i therefore call for the establishment of mechanisms at european level to protect farmers and help them to cope with any distortion of competition.
in writing. the european union's current consumption of protein and oilseeds is 70% imported, mainly from brazil, argentina and the united states. as these products are not always subject to the same environmental, health and regulatory constraints on gmos as european products, the european union has decided to review its protein policy and increase domestic production of protein products. european consumers would thus benefit from a healthier and more varied diet. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the union's vegetable protein deficit. europe is largely dependent on imports of protein crops, mainly used for animal feed. this dependence is accompanied by increasing risks linked to price volatility on international markets. to combat this, we propose that the reform of the cap should include new provisions to support farmers in improving crop rotation systems, to invest in protein seed research and to improve farmer training in crop rotation and polyculture.
in writing. the haüsling report was a good text. increasing the union's protein independence, the development of short supply chains, aid to farmers contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are all measures which i support. but the pro-gmo lobbies and their representatives have managed to turn this text into a plea for the entry of contaminated food into european territory. it also promotes the return to animal flours with the risks that such flours entail. it is time to relocate the production of plant proteins. this text, in its new form, does not allow it. i will vote against it if gmos and animal meal are approved by this parliament.
in writing. i agree with many of the points raised in this resolution, which i supported in the vote. for example, the analysis that countries where men and women are treated equally in the labour market have a positive impact on their socioeconomic development seems to me to be quite sound. in my view, the promotion of equality between women and men is a social but also an economic matter of course.
in writing. the annual report on gender equality is an opportunity to highlight the challenges facing us in these times of economic and social crisis. this report, which was voted on women's day, should be linked to the report by mrs plumb on women's poverty in the european union. women are among the so-called vulnerable groups who have suffered the full effects of the crisis. because they work part-time more often than men, because they have sometimes precarious jobs in the service sector, because their careers are fragmented, because they are still paid less than men for similar work, and because their pensions are also reduced as a result, women must be given constant attention. the most sensitive issue in this report concerned the quotas for women on the boards of large companies, both private and public. of course, quotas are not the panacea and in an ideal society we would like to do without them. but to change people's minds, quotas are probably a must!
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report on equality between men and women. in terms of pay, for example, and despite ongoing legislative efforts in this area at european level, women still earn on average 18% less than men in the european union for equal work. i would also like to point out that it has taken a long time in this parliament to even mention a fundamental right such as access to contraception. the european right does not emerge from this back-room debate with much of a vengeance. fortunately, the final text is good. it sets the target of reducing the wage gap to below 5% by 2020 and calls on the member states to do their utmost to apply the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', with sanctions for non-compliant member states. it calls for binding targets to guarantee parity in positions of responsibility in companies, public administrations and political organisations.
in writing. equal opportunities and non-discrimination do not mean the abolition and negation of the differences and complementarity between men and women in their nature, their aspirations, their way of seeing the world and life. to say that is not to say that there are stereotypes. if you go to the extreme, your gender-indifferentiation logic will only lead to absurdity. absurd, this "right", in quotes, to work at night for women. or forced to. it's a social regression. we owe you one. absurd, this french case law which grants men the validation of free semesters for their retirement, a right previously reserved for women and which compensated - somewhat - for the career problems that their motherhood and the time spent educating their children may have caused them. absurd because it threatens the very existence of this advantage for women. the recent case law of the court of justice which calls for the statistical differences between men and women in the calculation of insurance premiums, which is the basis for calculating risk, to be denied, is absurd. ladies, that's enough of this little financial advantage from your extra caution and longevity. how far will the taliban of "gender equality" go?
in writing. i am very pleased that this resolution was adopted on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of international women's day. despite the principle of equal pay for men and women being enshrined in the eu treaties, women are still paid 17.8% less than men. this inequality is reflected in all areas of society: for example, only 3% of the heads of large enterprises are women, and women are the most affected by unemployment and precarious employment, hence the alarming finding that 17% of women in the 27 eu countries were considered to be living in poverty in 2008. other struggles are still needed, such as a better distribution of family responsibilities and better protection of women against domestic violence. all these figures show that there is now a need for binding instruments. that is why i decided to vote in favour of quotas, even though i was opposed to this idea in the first place, and of positive discrimination policies in the economic and political spheres. we must now recognize that we will not achieve real equality without genuinely voluntary policies.
in writing. international women's day is an annual opportunity to take stock of women's rights and gender equality in the european union. although there have been some notable improvements, it is clear that equality has not yet been fully achieved, either in practice or in mentality. yet it is a necessary condition for achieving its objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which stresses the need to target and remedy the consequences of the crisis on women, which emphasises the role of education, and which calls on the european union to combat female poverty and all forms of violence against women. i think that one of the fundamental points of this text is also in paragraph 66 which affirms the right of women to easy access to contraception and abortion. in 11 eu countries abortion is still not fully legal...
in writing. the nedelcheva report makes a sad assessment of the progress made by the union in the area of equality between women and men. it is sad that we have to wait until 8 march to remember that 50% of european citizens are citizens and that their right to equality is being violated all over europe. i welcome this report for its expressed desire to put in place binding measures to ensure equal rights. however, i regret that he is using the europe 2020 strategy and his retirement at 64 to say that 'the family is the foundation of our society'. the foundation of our society is citizenship and the law. i denounce the process of trying to swallow antisocial and culturally regressive pills in waves of good intentions that are powerless.
in writing. the report on 'equality between women and men in the european union - 2010' is of particular importance as we celebrate the centenary of international women's day today. it is clear that there are still wide disparities between men and women in europe. it is necessary to call for binding targets to be set to ensure equal representation of men and women in positions of electoral responsibility as well as in companies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this resolution proposes an analysis of women's poverty which i share: it is certainly the result of the recent economic crisis, but also of various factors such as stereotypes, the gender pay gap, the lack of reconciliation between family life and working life, the longer life expectancy of women, etc. i therefore welcome, as does our rapporteur, the establishment of a european microfinance facility. the aim is to make microfinance more easily accessible and available to women who have difficulty entering the labour market or who wish to set up as self-employed or start their own micro-enterprise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is very difficult for me to accept that 17% of women in europe today live below the poverty line. the unprecedented economic crisis that the european union has just experienced has only made this sad fact worse. it is therefore time to put an end to this problem and adopt a set of measures to combat this scourge. the european union and its member states must put an end to poverty and social exclusion of women in europe by guaranteeing them, in particular, quality education and access to employment, by enabling them to reconcile family and professional life, and by strengthening the fight against the violence to which they are unfortunately too often subjected. i therefore support this own-initiative report, which highlights one of the shortcomings of our modern democracies, namely discrimination against women.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam vice-president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what lessons have we learned from the financial crisis? we have learned from the world war that our peoples should work together and not be divided. since the fall of the berlin wall, we have learned the lessons of authoritarian and communist regimes and have been able to re-unite our continent around the values of freedom, democracy and a social market economy. from the terrorist attack of september 11th, we understood that a new balance had to be found between security and freedom. the lesson to be drawn from this financial crisis is that our member states must stop considering cooperation in the budgetary, fiscal and social fields as taboo. i'm measuring the distance i've already traveled. the establishment this year of the 27's consultation on their budgetary priorities is in itself a revolution in mentality. the rules we have been able to devise to moralise the financial markets are also exemplary, but they are not enough. my group calls for an agreement between parliament and the council before the summer on strengthened economic governance. my group also calls for the coordination of the social and fiscal aspects to be continued. this is the meaning of the competitiveness pact, the initial version of which has already been revised in a more community-oriented sense. but we must go further and ensure that both the european parliament and the commission exercise all their prerogatives in this respect and we are counting on the president of the commission. the epp group welcomes and supports these proposals, as did the national leaders of the party in helsinki. ladies and gentlemen, how can we explain to our fellow citizens that, despite being in a difficult financial situation in mid-july each year, most of our member states should continue to spend as if nothing had happened? how is the over-indebtedness of our states more acceptable, more bearable, more sustainable than that of households or firms? i've proven that at a corporate level. the crisis has led to job losses, family tragedies; the least we can do is learn from it and speak the language of truth. the first lesson is that the obligations imposed on states - regardless of their size - to respect budgetary limits must no longer be treated lightly. secondly, european solidarity can only work if - and only if - our social and tax rules are at least comparable, not necessarily identical, but comparable. but that is far from the case. thirdly, europe must have a european stability mechanism to protect our social market economy. the fourth and final lesson is that even in the midst of the storm europe is holding its own and european integration is growing stronger. our american and japanese partners have debt levels that are much higher than ours, without being - i must say - too worried, but this will probably not last forever. for our part, this is the time to consolidate our economy and our competitiveness. it's time to work on the jobs of the future. it's time to speak the truth. we can't let this chance pass us by.
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, many things have been said which i share. i just want to use three words. the first word is 'respect': it was not this parliament that made the european parliament the co-legislator on economic governance. it is what the governments wanted in the lisbon treaty. as rapporteurs, we do not feel it is normal to be informed of important discussions involving the governance package via google or the english-language press. the first thing i ask of you, mr president, and i ask of mr van rompuy's colleagues here, is to respect us and to ensure that this parliament can work. the second word is "democracy". we have not seen a democratic system since the eighteenth century deny the separation of powers as the european council is denying it. in the separation of powers, there are those who decide and those who control. the council, with your complicity, mr barroso, is arrogating to itself the right to decide and control, that is to say, basically to do nothing. the third word is 'efficiency': if we continue to dilute the content of the proposals, we will arrive at the lowest common denominator and we know what it is. this is the lisbon strategy. it's the ten years that got us nowhere. we'll do our work. this parliament demands respect, it will defend democracy and efficiency.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i can only agree with what mrs goulard has just said about these necessary assumptions which make it necessary for parliament to be associated with the decision-making process, even though we fully understand the need for efficiency and speed. it is the only way for our fellow citizens, whose elected representatives we are, to understand what is happening and to explain it to them. i would like to make a very specific point. every day, we are tossed by the financial markets. these financial markets that represent everything and nothing, that are populated mostly by young people who have gone from game boy to computer without any special thought, and yet our countries are shaking. if we want to control markets, we cannot do so by abolishing them. i do not belong to a group which wants to abolish markets. but what are the markets looking for? they're looking to avoid risk, and the game in the markets is to pass the risk on to someone else. so no trader is ever satisfied as long as he is taking risks. i believe that if we are to have an impact on these financial markets, europe must be able to draw clear lines, not to change its orientation every day, not to come up with thousands of ideas which are then not put into practice. in order to be able to control this financial aspect, which is essential for the economic stability of our countries, we must be able - and it is up to you, mr president, to give this impetus - to set clear horizons, clear measures and to show a clear determination to ensure good economic coordination.
the president of the council. - madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for your interest in the enlargement issue. despite the perceptible challenges facing both member states and candidate countries, i believe that the enlargement process must proceed in a continuous and consistent manner, based on performance. to achieve this, both parties must remain committed. knowing the work of the european parliament, it is clear that this is a forum where all participants are aware of the importance of our relations with turkey. these are long-standing links, which are becoming even closer as the country becomes a candidate country. at the same time, turkey is also an important regional actor, playing a key role in several important areas, including energy security and regional security and the promotion of dialogue between civilizations. the dramatic international events taking place in our immediate neighbourhood further highlight the importance of turkey in these areas. the accession negotiations with the country are progressing in line with the relevant conclusions of the european council and the council and the negotiating framework. despite the increasing complexity of the advanced negotiations, the hungarian presidency is committed to making progress on all chapters wherever possible. the work is ongoing and is now focusing on chapter 8, competition policy. i am confident that our turkish partners will continue their efforts and that we will soon see results. in its conclusions adopted last december, the council welcomed turkey's continued commitment to the negotiating process and its political reform programme. the constitutional reform package adopted by turkey in 2010 is another important step in the right direction, as it addresses a number of the accession partnership priorities in the areas of justice, fundamental rights and public administration. the key task now is to ensure that reforms are implemented in line with european standards and through the broadest possible consultation involving all political parties and civil society organisations. it is clear that the continuation of work on the political criteria remains of the utmost importance. significant efforts will be required in several areas, as highlighted in the council conclusions of 14 december 2010, the european parliament's draft resolution and the commission's 2010 progress report. please allow me to highlight some of these areas. turkey should further improve its respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, both in law and in practice, in particular in the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of religion. further efforts are also needed to fully comply with the copenhagen criteria, inter alia in the areas of property rights, trade union rights, the rights of persons belonging to minorities, the rights of women and children, the fight against discrimination and gender equality, and the fight against torture and inhuman treatment. the areas of concern in the area of freedom of expression include restrictions on press freedom, inadequate protection of journalists' rights and the frequent and widespread blocking of websites, as highlighted in your draft resolution. let me refer you to the developments of the last few days. on march 3, turkish police arrested journalists. we must closely monitor this case and continuously remind the turkish authorities of the importance of the continued enforcement of the freedoms. as regards religious freedom, turkey should ensure its exercise both in law and in practice. a comprehensive legal solution is needed to ensure religious pluralism in line with european standards. the presidency is also concerned about the high number of news reports on torture and inhuman treatment, including abuses outside official detention facilities. strict enforcement of the amended 2007 law on police tasks and powers should be monitored to prevent human rights violations. as the european parliament's draft resolution points out, the ratification of the optional protocol to the un convention against torture and the fight against impunity are essential steps in this regard. as regards turkish-kurdish relations and the question of the south-eastern territories, we hope that the implementation and continuation of democratic opening will soon bring the expected results and ultimately lead to the economic, social and cultural development of the region. let me also remind you that the council strongly condemns the terrorist acts committed on the territory of turkey. it should also be noted that the kurdistan workers' party remains on the eu list of terrorist organisations. turning to eu-turkey relations, i note with deep regret that despite repeated calls, turkey continues to refuse to fulfil its obligation to implement the additional protocol to the association agreement in full and without discrimination. this is a key issue, which is why the council is maintaining its 2006 measures, which, as we all know, are clearly having an impact on the pace of accession negotiations. the council will continue to closely monitor and review the results achieved. similarly, there is no progress in the normalisation of relations between cyprus and turkey. the council expects turkey to actively support the ongoing negotiations in the framework of the united nations to achieve a just, comprehensive and viable settlement of the cyprus problem, in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions and with respect for the principles on which the union is founded. the commitment and contribution of turkey is key to such a comprehensive settlement. i would also like to stress that turkey must be clearly committed to good neighbourly relations and to the peaceful settlement of disputes. turkey is a key source and transit country for illegal immigration to the eu, and we therefore welcome the conclusion of the negotiations on a readmission agreement between the eu and turkey. the council looks forward to the conclusion of the agreement as soon as possible and its successful implementation. we know that this happened at the last igc and we expect turkey to sign the treaty. in the meantime, the council reiterates its commitment to the full and proper implementation of the existing bilateral readmission agreements. with regard to the eu-turkey customs union, i would like to point out that it is time for turkey to finally fulfil the large number of commitments that it has not addressed so far. this includes technical and administrative barriers to trade, registration requirements, import licences, state aid, enforcement of intellectual property rights and other discriminatory practices and provisions. these are all issues that need to be resolved urgently. turkey should also lift all restrictions affecting trade and transport between the member states of the union and turkey. i appreciate your patience and welcome any questions you may have.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the parliament, and in particular ms oomen-ruijten for her report on turkey. this debate and your resolution come at an important time for eu-turkey relations, and the draft resolution underlines a number of issues of great importance for the commission. the commission remains committed to the accession process with turkey. the enlargement process encourages political and economic reform in the country. the eu-turkey relationship is strong. turkey needs the european union and the european union needs turkey – this balance has not changed. the european union is and will remain a key player for turkey. the relationship is based on deep economic integration: 40% of turkey’s foreign trade goes to the eu and 80% of foreign direct investments in turkey come from the eu. the european union efficiently contributes to turkey’s modernisation through technology transfers, turkey’s participation in eu education and research programmes and our pre-accession financial support. at the same time, accession negotiations have slowed down. moreover, the negotiating chapters that turkey can aim to open under the present circumstances require significant reforms and adjustments. against this background, i welcome all the more the progress made recently, in particular as regards the competition chapter. i am confident that we can soon open this chapter, provided turkey fulfils the last remaining conditions. obviously, the cyprus issue weighs on the negotiations. positive steps on the implementation of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement or in the settlement talks would have a positive impact on the accession negotiations. let me turn now to the reforms in turkey. i welcome last year’s constitutional reform and the subsequent legislative amendments as a step in the right direction. getting the laws right is important. however, only objective and impartial implementation of the new laws will ensure the success of the constitutional reforms. turkey should continue with the constitutional reform. the process should be as inclusive and transparent as possible with the active participation of different political parties, civil society, non-governmental organisations and the general public. the commission is following with concern the recent actions against journalists. independence and freedom of the press is of utmost importance for democracy. in its 2010 progress report the commission has already highlighted the high number of court cases against journalists and undue pressure on the media which undermine this fundamental right in practice. freedom of the press entails that dissent and opposing points of view need to be heard and – more importantly – tolerated. freedom of the press means guaranteeing a public space for free debate, including on the internet. the european parliament’s draft resolution rightly underlines these issues. as for the right to freedom of religion, we welcome the initiatives taken in favour of non-muslim religious communities in turkey. however, further and systematic efforts are needed to address the problems of non-muslims and the alevis. let me turn to the issue of migration. two weeks ago, the council endorsed the eu-turkey readmission agreement. this agreement is beneficial for the eu member states, as turkey is an important transit country for migration flows to the eu. the development on the readmission agreement also opens up for the first time new and concrete perspectives for further cooperation with turkey in the area of visa and migration policies, with a view to improving mobility and contacts amongst our citizens and businesses. turkey and the european union have a shared interest in working closely together in this area. there are many good reasons to increase the ability of turkish citizens, businessmen and students to travel to europe: to familiarise themselves further with european standards; to enhance eu-turkey trade to the benefit of both european union and turkish businesses, and to give a much-needed boost to our cooperation with turkey. madam president, i assure you that the european parliament will be duly involved both on the issue of the readmission agreement and the visa dialogue, in line with the treaty requirements. relations with turkey have also to be seen in a wider context. turkey’s active foreign policy is a strong potential asset for the european union, provided it is developed within the framework of turkey’s eu accession process. the european union stands ready to intensify its existing dialogue with turkey on foreign policy issues of mutual interest. speaking about turkey today, we cannot ignore the major developments in its wider region. the events in tunisia and egypt have highlighted turkey’s stability, prosperity, and democracy. citizens in these countries look at turkey, as they look at the european union, as examples to follow. they watch turkey advocating standards and values that they are now fighting for themselves and that are associated with europe. let us be clear: while an example to others, turkey has still a lot to do. many of these challenges ahead are outlined in your report. this is the occasion for turkey to move even closer towards implementing fully the european union political criteria. the government has a very important responsibility to uphold such a privileged position and to lead by example for the benefit of its own citizens but also for the region as a whole.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for her work, which she documents with great precision and which she is producing in good faith with the aim of sending clear political messages, especially on the eve of the general elections in turkey, and i support this work. this report - unlike you, madam minister - emphasizes freedom of expression and the media, and we can understand why. unfortunately, this is obviously very necessary as the news reminds us, with the recent arrests of journalists nedim sener and ahmet sik in connection with the ergenekon and sledgehammer investigations. i have tabled an amendment to that effect and i would ask you to support this work so that our parliament can exercise the greatest vigilance on this crucial issue of press freedom, which also touches on the question of the independence of the judiciary and the question of the drafting of the new constitution. but i would like to ask the following political question: when we see the stifling of the accession process and the blocking of crucial chapters for progress on the issues of fundamental freedoms, the independence of the judiciary and the new constitution, our choice and the council's choice to sanction by closure, and the impossibility of opening and closing chapters, are they not, today, totally counterproductive? it is really inconsistent for the european union to deprive itself of the main levers of action in turkey, which are the negotiations - particularly on chapters 22, 23 and 24 - and i would like to urge the council to look at this situation again because, obviously, the case today looks like a form of hostage-taking of the accession process through these sanctions which, in the end, can only produce effects if the accession process itself remains extremely lively. but everyone can see that he is no longer. we are therefore in a very worrying political situation at a time when turkey is being looked upon by all the countries of the southern mediterranean as a source of inspiration for their own democratic transition. i am not asking for a decision on turkey's accession, i am asking that the decisions we take at all levels be absolutely consistent with the reliability, credibility, seriousness and fairness of our negotiating process. today, it is very clearly in question.
for the greens/efa group madam president, unfortunately we can read reports of discrimination or racist remarks against roma in the press every day. that is how eagerly the roma themselves, of course, and all their supporters and all those who are attached to the fundamental values of the european union are awaiting this communication from the commission. the commission will therefore have to develop a framework for the national action plans, a european strategy. its responsibility will go far beyond the development of this european framework for national action plans because member states will only move forward on this subject if they are given a very strong incentive by the european commission. this is done - and the report says it very well - by evaluating the results in an extremely precise way, with benchmarks and indicators. this requires the involvement of all stakeholders and first of all the roma communities. i think it is very important to link this with the council of europe's programme on the training of roma ombudsmen. this is a prerequisite for the success of inclusive projects at the territorial level. the european commission must also be involved through its own projects, pilot projects - this is what this report proposes - which could be carried out, for example, in the micro-regions we have mentioned, so that exemplary, outstanding projects can convince all the actors to engage in this dynamic for inclusion. secondly, i believe that the european commission must also be able to use its right to make a finding of deficiency when the values, european legislation and national action plans are not properly completed, with equal access to all rights, non-discrimination and free movement as a reference and in mind.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, is there still any real ambition in the face of the deindustrialisation of the european union? we know that there is no thriving economy without a strong industry and that there is no industry without factories. we are all here today to defend the industrial jobs of europe. there will be no possible future for industry without confidence in scientific and technical progress. so, at a time when europe is about to embark on a major effort to identify the ariane and airbus of 2050, the commission must be well aware that with the crisis, the rules in place are no longer adapted to the current economy. the questions of free trade, free and undistorted competition have been dogmatized. we cannot be the only global economic area to apply the principles of free trade unilaterally and in complete disregard of the behaviour of our major competitors. i therefore regret, commissioner, that there has been a certain feverishness on the issues of strengthening the european union's anti-dumping arsenal and the application of the general principle of reciprocity in trade with third countries. the worst of all situations is that of an over-open european market against competing markets that are too closed. in the context of the fight against climate change, i would also like to see the possibility of introducing additional tools to greenhouse gas emissions trading, such as the carbon capture at frontiers mechanism. we could thus restore a balance to make relocations to third countries less attractive for our companies. we must increase support for our smes, lighten their burdens; we must strengthen european patents, the fight against counterfeiting with the made in. similarly, if europe does not have access to raw materials, we cannot speak of an innovative industrial policy. our concern is with education, training, research and a culture of innovation and science, which must be given a new lease of life in the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report finally underlines the essential role of industry in the future of the union and confirms the need for a european industrial policy. it implicitly recognises the failure of the lisbon strategy by rightly calling for 3% of the union's gross domestic product to be devoted to research and development, and above all by proposing that the private sector should make a strong contribution. unfortunately, it remains locked into a vision of competitiveness based on a deadly fall in the cost of labour, whereas it should be based on training and savings in capital, energy and raw materials. the report also half-heartedly admits the inability of financial markets to convert savings into wealth-producing investments. the solution to this problem is to bring credit under social control, or even to require credit for employment, research and development and wealth creation. we need public financial centres, european and national, to finance industry. our parliament cannot simply act to make the major european industrial groups better off. our central objective must be to increase the number and quality of industrial employment in the union.
madam president, i would like to thank bernd lange for his excellent work. tomorrow its collaborative approach will be successful and, commissioner, that is a good thing for the commission which has produced a rather disappointing communication. i come from a large region which has been hit hard by the crisis, and which has already been affected by industrial conversions, and i listened to the message of the trade unions, who have been calling on us continually. we need an industrial policy with all its components aimed at the same objective. the aim is to build a strategy based on sustainable growth, centred on employment, built around the optimisation of skills and demonstrating that social and technological innovation are compatible. this is the key to european competitiveness and not the use of labour as an adjustment variable, as the commission proposed in the european semester. the best initiative for the commission is to quickly introduce the 'posting of workers' directive into the work programme and to introduce tax harmonization starting with corporation tax. moreover, this policy must be articulated at national and european level but also at local level as part of an effective cohesion policy. we have chosen a regulated financial market, we share the desire to consolidate the single market, but not at the expense of an unfair labour market and social dumping. today, madam president, we are discussing an ambitious industrial policy and we voted this morning for a financial transaction tax and eurobonds. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to use these funds to finance it.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your attention to industrial matters and i would like to commend the immense work done for our political group by my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête. industry is 60 million jobs plus two additional jobs per industrial employment in services, for a total of 180 million. that's three quarters of our exports, that's 5.5 million companies. what do you need to do? we must act and protect. protectionism is not protectionism, so we must have an industrial policy. some say: agriculture for south america, industry for china and services for europe. but my friends, if we don't make more cars, more planes, more ships, more trains, more satellites, more medicine, more nuclear power plants, we will be ruined! and services, we will have them because we will have an industrial policy. i would like to make three proposals. the first concerns industrial standards. whenever we set industrial standards, we have to have impact studies so that we have the manufacturing that comes from those standards on european territory. the second concerns education and research. we need to have the best engineering schools in the world and support them. reconciling science and the citizen. we are going to review the seventh framework programme on research. we have 30 billion to spend for 2011, 2012 and 2013. let us allocate some of these envelopes as a matter of priority to industry. the third is funding. we could create a european industrial investment fund and i make you a proposal: we owe the pensions of the staff of the european union thirty-seven billion euros; let's put that money into a pension fund that would be long-term savings and i share the view on monetary policy. let us be very careful about how we get out of the crisis, let us make sure that we do not have too high interest rates which would bring us a strong euro and hinder our industrial exports.
madam president, i believe that the excellent report by our colleague, mr bernd lange, has three merits. firstly, it proposes an integrated industrial strategy for the european union, i.e. a strategy of a continental and cooperative nature, distinct in every respect from the narrowly national and non-cooperative policies which have been at work in europe for the last 15 years. secondly, this industrial strategy and this changes us for example from the lisbon strategy of 2000 is financed. if it were not funded, it would be mere phraseology. the main source of this financing is european project bonds, eurobonds and europrojects. we faced that in the vote this morning. thirdly, this strategy protects our industries. this report is for an open europe, it is against a free europe. he's for trade based on reciprocity and balance. several articles focus on these issues. this is absolutely essential because in this area we are naïve and weak.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can understand the enthusiasm for the presence of shale gas in our european subsoil and the concern for energy independence is a very welcome concern. however, i think that this optimism must be very singularly nuanced. firstly in the united states, where shale gas is indeed widely used. several states are on the way to a moratorium and an impact study that will last more than two years has been entrusted to the ipe to analyse the environmental consequences of this exploitation. second point. at a time when we are trying to massively reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, it would seem highly inconsistent with policies at union level that an impact study on the purely climate impact in terms of greenhouse gases of the exploitation of these deposits is not carried out before any in-depth research is put in place. third point. you said, commissioner, that environmental standards must be respected, and we take note of that and welcome it. the fact remains that in countries, and i am thinking particularly of my own country, where research permits are granted, we now find that environmental law is totally forgotten, it does not apply, we are outlawed. the aarhus convention is not being applied, the populations are not being warned, there is no public inquiry, there are no impact studies, there is a concealment of the dangerous chemicals that are being used. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable to continue down this road and the real question, commissioner, is whether there is not a conflict between the exploitation of shale gas on such dense ground as european ground, which has nothing to do with american ground, and our environmental protection laws and our laws on the protection of citizens' information. i'd be happy to hear your answers.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with what my colleague corinne lepage said, because i ask myself the following question: is this an opportunity or an environmental disaster? we are still ten years behind the exploitation that is done at the level of the united states. what do we see? we see that there's pollution of the groundwater by the chemicals that have been incorporated into this hydraulic fracturing, as well as air pollution. we now see that there are vocs and even ozone from all the products that are being thrown into the air and that the health consequences affect both the people living along the banks, the livestock and, of course, the users of the groundwater since they can no longer consume the water. the new york times revealed this last week: in addition to polluting the groundwater with hydrocarbons and biocides, contamination also transmits radioactive elements. in france, as corinne lepage has pointed out, eight licences were signed without any debate, without any consultation and without any impact assessment. and you speak of social acceptability? there's a real rebellion going on. the last demonstrations in a department like ardèche counted more than twenty thousand people precisely because they are respectful of their terroir. and you say, "this is an economic opportunity", but who benefits from this gas? is this about "who benefits from crime"? is it a question of choosing gas for industrial purposes over water supplies in groundwater? the new york city moratorium is a good example of this problem. therefore, we are demanding the cancellation of the permits. there is no question of exploration until we have guarantees on compliance with the groundwater framework directive and air pollution, as well as the aarhus convention. we are therefore awaiting your answers and will refuse at european, french and national level to allow the exploitation of these unconventional gases in the absence of these guarantees.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, you said earlier that we must respect the peoples and their desire for freedom. let's be honest here. for years, we failed to respect them. we were accomplices of dictatorships, we the european union and all the member states. that you have stopped negotiations with mr gaddafi today mazel tov! and what else? do you think you could have continued? but for years, this european union, these member states, mr berlusconi, were negotiating the return of refugees to, for example, libya. no one cared about how mr. gaddafi treated these refugees? (applause) i would like to thank but we still need to have a sense of self-criticism in this story. today, a people has risen. they have representatives. when the polish people rose up, nobody asked if solidarność was democratically elected, we immediately recognized solidarność, we helped them. i ask that you recognize this interim government because it is the only force that can bring democracy. and you have to keep a cool head, martin, yes, but you have to choose sides. two things are necessary. first, gaddafi must not win because if he wins it is the end of all hope for democracy in many regions and the bounty for the dictator! so our policy must be directed in such a way that gaddafi must lose, the libyans must win against gaddafi. second, the libyans don't want foreign military intervention, that's true. but they say, "we want an air ban". the african union is talking about a no-fly zone. the arab league is talking about a no-fly zone. so it's not nato. the consensual air exclusion is first of all to create a new political balance of power, to isolate gaddafi at the un, that is to say "we go either through the security council or through the general assembly", which voted 100% to exclude libya from the human rights council. that means he's completely isolated. it shows gaddafi: "you have no future, you have no chance!". the military exclusion is first and foremost a political act. how can this be done? there's a lot of ideas. obviously we're not going to bomb libya, but for example a plane that goes up may be shot down. we have to show gaddafi that we won't let him bomb libyan cities. there are possibilities. it's a political act we have to do. (applause) i would like to thank i am very much convinced that if we take the bull by the horns, we recognize this interim government, we activate the european union, the un, the arab league. let's activate the lockdown, and then, i believe, gaddafi's days as dictator in libya will be numbered. now there's also humanitarian aid, which needs doctors and which needs the wounded to be able to get out of libya. there are open ports; all humanitarian aid must go through eastern libya. finally, we need food aid, military aid too; that's the choice. if gaddafi is to lose, the others must win. we can't do what we did in bosnia. we had an embargo on the bosnians and the serbs. everyone was in agreement. no, we are on one side against the other, we want a military embargo, an arms embargo against gaddafi and to give the libyans the opportunity to free themselves with arms because that is the situation, because that is what mr gaddafi wanted. i would like to conclude on refugees and humanitarian aid. let us use all the instruments of the european union to provide temporary accommodation for refugees and to ensure that refugees are recognised by unhcr. there are thousands of refugees who are recognized as such by unhcr in the camps. let them come to europe! if we do that, we will be making a very strong humanitarian and political gesture, and we will be acting in such a way that europe is finally recognised, that european values are recognised because we are acting for those values, for freedom in libya, tunisia and egypt. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the complacency we have shown and the impotence we have shown for a very long time should not be replaced by a willingness to intervene in a vague way, the perverse effects of which would be immediately perceptible. once is not enough: i generally approved of the cautious speech which mr schulz made. i believe that the good feelings with which this parliament is imbued, the willingness to intervene in humanitarian matters, to intervene in other people's affairs, have profoundly perverse effects. you want dictators to leave the field, and you're right. but if you really want it, then you have to give them a way out. we should not start by denying them visas to leave their own country. nor should they be promised that their only future is to end their days in prison. if not - and this is obvious, mr cohn-bendit - you are then offering them no other solution than to fight to the last drop of their people's blood. that's it! it is a pity that it has been forgotten, and especially by those who once praised these dictators. i am not the one who invited mr ben ali here and listened respectfully to his speech. you are all my dear colleagues, and at that time we heard very little protest!
madam president, mrs ashton, this time europe will have to be present at the meeting. the summit on friday must unambiguously and unreservedly recognize the legitimacy of the national council, whose demands are simple. first, the humanitarian emergency. libya is in a civil war. we must redouble our efforts to send food, medicine, doctors and support to the thousands of refugees who are rushing into tunisia and egypt. but europe cannot be satisfied with a humanitarian response. the european council must take up its responsibilities and, as part of a decision to be taken at the un involving the arab league and the african union, bring forward the proposal for a no-fly zone to prevent gaddafi's aircraft from massacring his people. finally, a word to the governments who play on all fears to tell them this: the migrants who flee libya want only one thing, and that is to return home. the european union must therefore, when the time comes for reconstruction, take a determined and courageous approach to their economic development.
madam president, i would like to support the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya, as this house has undertaken. it is in fact fuelling the reaction of the european institutions. it expresses clearly and decisively how we can help to overcome the difficulties as the situation in libya continues to worsen by the day. i would like to emphasize two points: firstly, in the short term, our priority is indeed to protect civilians, whether they are displaced persons fleeing the fighting or libyans caught in the crossfire of gaddafi's attacks on his own people. all resources must be invested in emergency humanitarian aid, in particular in helping the neighbouring countries most in need of people: tunisia, egypt and niger. secondly, we have a medium- and long-term responsibility. the european union must seize the historic opportunity that these uprisings have given us to support the process of democratic transition and to look further ahead to rebuild the common european asylum and immigration policies on the basis of a truly balanced partnership that deals a definitive blow to the exploitation of the countries bordering the mediterranean as europe's gendarmes.
mr president, madam vice-president, in these dramatic hours when the future of libya is at stake, humanitarian support is important but it cannot be enough. the european union must take a clear position on the air-to-air option to end the brutal repression of the people. we understand the reluctance and the risks, but this is a matter that goes beyond libya. it concerns the political future of the whole region and the political future of europe. the european union must also urgently recognise the national council as the legitimate authority of libya. we have the opportunity to send a strong message to all the peoples who are fighting for their freedom: 'europe stands with you because your struggle is also ours'. we must also reorient the neighbourhood policy towards support for the democratic transition, support for the economy and strengthening relations with other countries and organisations in the region. finally, we urgently need to help these countries manage their migratory flows. the exodus scenes are proof that this is not just a north-south issue but also a south-south issue. my colleagues, madam vice-president, the time has come to choose. either europe sends a clear message of support and mobilization to help these peoples, or it builds a wall to turn itself into an illusory and selfish fortress.
madam high representative, you have stressed, as we are all aware, the urgency of the libyan crisis. you have just recalled what the european union has done, and done rather well, in humanitarian matters and in the evacuation of european citizens. i think, moreover, that the european union would have gained by making these actions public, in a much more visible way, because we always have too much of the impression that it is the member states alone that are doing these operations, whereas you have mentioned that the european mechanisms have worked. on the political-military level, the need for a no-fly zone is certainly necessary, not only politically but also militarily. but that will not be enough because, let us not forget, the no-fly zones in bosnia and kosovo did not prevent abuses on the ground, even when they were applied very rigorously in the area of aerial overflight. we have european instruments for a common defence and security policy, pending the decisions of the un security council, and we can use them for maritime surveillance, embargo monitoring and the delivery of humanitarian aid. europe must be heard on this issue and you have the instruments to act.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i can only do what, within my mandate, i am allowed to do. my personal opinions do not count in this. honourable members have to understand that. i have met with the council and i have heard what parliament has said. the president of parliament will report. as mr cohn-bendit says, it is very important, but i cannot stand here today and say ‘i will therefore recommend’. we have to go forward with what parliament agrees when it passes its resolution, and i have seen what it is suggesting. we then report to the president of the european council for the conclusions of the european council – which rest within his hands – for the foreign affairs council to meet and discuss and for parliament, through its president, to put this forward. then the european council will take a decision. i am not trying to avoid the issue. i am simply saying that you have to pull all those things together and then make a decision. i mean no disrespect to the transitional council, but again we have to do this properly and make sure that we do what we are confident and comfortable with.
i give the floor to mr cohn-bendit for the last statement, and then we close. i would just like to remind vice-president ashton, as i am sure she knows, that the mandate is also given to her by the european parliament as vice-president of the european commission, not just by the council.
mr president, i would like to say to baroness ashton – and i can say this in english – that it is also written in her mandate that she has to make proposals to the member states. it is in her mandate, so we want her to take her mandate seriously. after a debate in the parliament and after a resolution that you will read, baroness ashton, you know that there will be an overwhelming majority to take this seriously and to make this proposal to the council. if not, there will be a big crisis between you and the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, the rapporteur for the economic committee, of course, agrees with what elmar brok said. i would just like to draw attention to two points: the important thing today is that there should be legal certainty. in other words, there is no permanent debate on the legal basis of what can be done at european level, whether intergovernmental or community; we have a preference for the community, of course. why is this legal certainty necessary? because europe and the eurozone are under constant market pressure. we can't destroy markets, but we can try to control them. this means eliminating the rush, the decisions that are postponed every day, and avoiding the constant questioning of whether or not we can make a decision. it is therefore urgent, commissioner, that you take parliament's requests into account and that we quickly bring about this treaty change for the legal certainty which is necessary to respond effectively to the difficult economic circumstances we are experiencing.
mr president, three years ago we were told: 'this is the last of the der der, there will be no revision of the treaty'. realism today leads us to do so. the lisbon treaty, however, for the first time provides for real powers for the european parliament in a revision of the treaties. we are dealing here with a proposal which ignores the rights of this european parliament and which, in a community matter which is the matter of monetary policy, proposes an intergovernmental mechanism. i draw two lessons from this: firstly, i hope that our colleagues who will be negotiating on our behalf will be able to modify the proposal as far as possible, as it has been transmitted to us, in order to 'recommunitarize' the mechanism. i also hope that this revision of the treaty will be the last to take place without a convention and without the involvement of the european parliament. this european parliament has proposals to make and we know that for the survival of the euro area we will have to go further in a revision of the treaty or in enhanced cooperation.
mr president, the vote that has taken place, although by a majority, is in fact a manoeuvre which is directed against the letter of the treaties, which is very clear and which requires that there be twelve sessions in strasbourg. to remove one of these, it is claimed that two different sessions could occur in the same week. it is also a way of circumventing the very clear interpretative judgment given by the luxembourg court of justice precisely when this parliament wanted to go from twelve sessions to only eleven. for the last 20 years, we have been witnessing surreptitious manoeuvres to deprive strasbourg of the seat of the european union. it is true - and my colleagues are right - that the present situation is not sustainable, but we do not have to make brussels the washington dc of the european union. we could have brought all the activities of this parliament together in strasbourg, if it had been for something other than the persistent negligence of the french government authorities.
in writing. in the vote on the calendar of parliamentary work for 2012 and 2013, meps approved by 58% an amendment to delete one of the two plenary sessions in october in strasbourg. this amendment is nothing but a breach of the treaties! the latter set the seat of the parliament in strasbourg and specified that twelve annual sessions should be held there. two sessions are held in october to make up for the absence of work in august. apart from these sessions in strasbourg, the meetings of parliamentary committees and the additional sessions are held in brussels. in 1997, the court of justice clearly established the principle that the european parliament must meet every month in strasbourg. the treaties leave no doubt: strasbourg is not the second seat of the european parliament but the only seat of the institution. the anti-strasbourg group is organizing and increasing its use of force, trying to make it appear that parliament is unanimously against strasbourg. the defenders of the alsatian siege must be heard more. they have the legitimacy of the law and fifty years of history of european construction.
in writing. the european treaties explicitly stipulate that the european parliament's sole seat is in strasbourg, and that it must hold 12 sessions a year there. however, a vote was held this week to bring together two plenary sessions in strasbourg in one week, in october 2012 and october 2013. the democratic members of congress voted against this decision. france has already announced that it will soon refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union. the decision taken is in flagrant contradiction with the spirit and the letter of the treaties, since, it should be recalled, only a decision taken by the member states, unanimously, can amend the provisions of the treaties.
in writing. we voted this week on the european parliament's work schedule for 2012 and 2013 and to my great regret a majority of members voted in favour of an amendment (to which i was strongly opposed) which brings together the two plenary sessions of october in one week. i think that this vote is in total contradiction with the spirit of the treaties on european union, which explicitly state that the seat of the european parliament is in strasbourg and that 12 plenary sessions must be held there every year. the debate on the location of the european parliament's seat has been re-emerging, and today there is a new attack on the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. the strasbourg seat refers to historical references and legal texts and cannot be called into question by such multiple attacks. france has just announced that it is going to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union, which i welcome and will support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the 2012 budgetary guidelines: a general framework and budgetary priorities for the functioning of the european institutions (european commission excluded). our report supports in particular the reduction of the budget of our european parliament in view of the economic, financial and social situation in the member states, and i welcome this. finally, i voted strongly against the amendments which attacked the european parliament's seat in strasbourg and i welcome the fact that they were rejected by the majority of the european parliament.
in writing. the report has the great merit of emphasising the need for members to exercise their mandate in their own language. the absence of translations in a number of meetings, in communications to us and in joint resolutions under negotiation is an unjustifiable obstacle to our work as elected representatives and hence to democracy. i support that request. but i refuse to accept the financial waste and the democratic aberration of mrs ashton's european external action service. i also reject the idea of preferential treatment of private companies over civil servants.
in writing. cooperation on problems that transcend national borders is one of the great added values of the work done by the european union. my colleague alain cadec has been working for months to strengthen cooperation between the regions of the atlantic arc and to enable them to take full advantage of the possible synergies. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which 'calls on the commission to formulate as soon as possible a european strategy for the atlantic region which is an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and land issues'.
in writing. the adoption of a parliament resolution on the draft atlantic strategy is an opportunity for me to stress the urgency of working at community level towards a shared approach to the uses of our maritime spaces and to provide a concerted response to the problems encountered. the example of the channel is particularly illuminating in this context: a strategic sea gateway for the european union, it is both an essential passage between the atlantic ocean and the north sea (it concentrates 20% of the world fleet, and more than 500 ships of more than 300 tonnes circulate there every day), but also an area devoted to fishing, boating, the exploitation of pellets, and soon, to my great satisfaction, to the production of energy from offshore wind turbines. this concentration of activities requires serious consideration of the question of the management of maritime safety in this area at community level within the framework of a concerted strategy. that is why, in the debate on the atlantic strategy, i again called on mrs damanaki, the commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries, to include the channel in the proposal she will be making in june.
in writing. the european states have a vested interest in maintaining good relations with turkey, but once again the european union is disregarding turkey's progress towards membership with this report. on the one hand, it is still not listening to the people of europe, who are worried about the prospect of this resulting in the blind outlay of hundreds of millions of euros every year (in pre-accession credits) without any return. the union also recognizes, but without drawing any consequences, that turkey is flouting international law in cyprus and fundamental rights at home, disregards its armenian and greek neighbours, oppresses minorities on its territory and does not even respect the commitments it makes to the union. when will we have the courage to get out of this gear? will our governments return to reality, offering turkey a partnership and not membership?
in writing. the major groups did not have the courage to defend their own political options in committee on turkey's accession to the european union. to avoid talking about full membership of the union, for the left, as a privileged partnership, for the so-called right, they bargained. and it resulted in the usual hollow formula of the "open-ended" process. that is, uncertain. but who wants to continue negotiations that have no clearly defined goals? the european citizens who are massively opposed to this accession are being mocked, and their governments, like this parliament, refuse to listen. parliament which every year laments that turkey does not respect its commitments, that reforms are slow, that the conditions of women and christian minorities are deteriorating, that it is in conflict with a member state - and which draws no conclusions from this! turkey and its people are also mocked. with disastrous diplomatic consequences, as we have seen recently with mr erdogan's visit to germany and mr sarkozy's visit to turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let him say it clearly and act accordingly!
in writing. i am in favour of negotiations and turkey's accession to the european union but only on the condition that human rights and democracy are respected. that is why i voted for the amendment which proposed the recognition of the armenian genocide, a historic act which was essential before turkey's accession to the union.
in writing. this resolution gives turkey lessons in democracy. these are not the right time. the european parliament welcomed the negotiations between the commission and the dictator gaddafi just two months ago. and what about the construction between the union and turkey? the fact that it is claiming to draw the attention of a partner country to the necessary separation of powers when this assembly does not demand it in the union is in fact unacceptable. but there is something worse: this text threatens turkey with the withdrawal of negotiations on its accession to the union if it does not immediately conform to its own neoliberal dogma and reminds it of the copenhagen criteria. anyone who thinks of the general interest of the peoples knows that this europe must be changed before it can be enlarged. i am opposed to any new accession until social dumping is stopped, but i am voting against this arrogant text.
in writing. the european union strongly supports the progress of the enlargement process but notes that major challenges remain in most of the countries concerned. this resolution concerns the case of montenegro. i supported it because it seems to me to be balanced: it emphasizes that montenegro has made real progress in economic matters but also in terms of the fight against corruption. if montenegro is to continue its efforts, it seems to me legitimate that it should have the official status of a candidate country for eu membership.
in writing. this resolution endorses the obligation of montenegrin citizens to submit to the copenhagen criteria and to the forced privatizations. the union is reduced to an aggressive and pretentious liberal catechism. without me. i vote against it.
in writing. there are about 10 to 12 million roma living in the european union. many of them suffer from discrimination and social exclusion. most of them are european citizens, and the eu must develop a strategy to integrate them. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which provides for an action plan based on the fundamental values of equality, access to rights, non-discrimination and equality between men and women, and building on the structural funds already available.
in writing. the adoption by a very large majority of the report by mr jaroka is yet another political sign that the european union is aware of its responsibility towards this ethnic minority, the largest in europe and the most persecuted. the report emphasises priority areas which should be included in the strategy, such as the fight for the respect of the fundamental rights of the roma. the strategy must focus on education, but also prevent extreme marginalisation and prevent the reproduction of inequalities, and finally the strategy must innovate on effective access to the labour market and access to affordable and healthy housing. the report stresses that the current challenge is to fully absorb european funds and use them for the benefit of the roma population. the instruments are there, but they are being used very badly! roma inclusion is done through the europe box; it is now up to the european commission to draw up the final proposals based on our vote today. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the union must play its full role as a driving force and bring together the actors involved at all levels to improve the effectiveness of european funds and finally make roma full-fledged european citizens!
in writing. the integration of roma is a major challenge facing the european union. this report is a step in the right direction, because it shows the european parliament's willingness to contribute fully to this.
in writing. we have just adopted the european roma integration strategy by a large majority. this is a strong political sign, confirming that the european union is aware of its responsibility towards this minority, the largest in europe and the most persecuted. the european union and the member states must take a direct stand against the undignified segregation of the roma. the report stresses the importance of respecting the fundamental rights of the roma, in particular access to education. to prevent any risk of marginalisation, it is also important to put in place innovative policies for effective access to employment and to enable these largely sedentary populations to access decent and affordable housing. the european funds are there. they must be used for the benefit of the roma. it is now up to the european commission to draw up the final provisions on the basis of the proposals in this report, in compliance with subsidiarity and with one objective: that roma become full european citizens.
in writing. parliament adopted a good text, which underlines the important role of europe for the social inclusion of roma in the european union, with the implementation of this strategy at local level. the report recalls that a strategy for the roma can only be made in consultation with the members of the community, in short, it must be done "with" before doing "for". the roma should therefore be involved in decision-making. the text recalls the difficult living conditions, discrimination and difficulties in accessing essential services faced by the roma. it stressed the need to ensure that european citizens enjoy freedom of movement. it also stresses the importance of social protection, vocational training, education and the provision of public services for social inclusion. he criticises the under-allocation of funds, whereas the money could be put to good use. the real black spot in this report, however, is the insistence of the conservatives in the european parliament on the need to combat what they call the 'prolonged dependence' of the roma on the social protection system. this is an outrageous prejudice aimed at marginalizing the roma community once again.
in writing. rarely has a report from the european parliament been so confined to delirium. the strategy for roma integration is the systematic promotion of a small population everywhere, mandatory quotas in all areas, including decision-making bodies and businesses, and systematic public funding for its supposed needs, including housing. this minority is of course always assumed to be the victim of malicious discrimination and no one ever considers their own responsibilities. it must be said that the rapporteur herself comes from this minority, which proves that it is not so oppressed. it is a little like asking a chinese person to define the european trade defence policy. but, to return to the subject, what other european citizens, who are victims of poverty and precariousness, and who are excluded in their own countries from the social benefits which are already given priority to others, are the object of your concern? it is in this systematic discrimination against european citizens and at their expense that we must look for the reasons for their growing rejection of the brussels machine.
in writing. the european parliament adopted this week, by a large majority, a report on the european roma integration strategy: this is yet another political sign that the european union is aware of its responsibility towards this ethnic minority, the largest in europe and the most persecuted. the report stresses the priority areas of the strategy: fundamental rights, inequalities, the fight against discrimination, education, access to employment, the labour market, access to housing - all areas where action is needed. i myself, in the libe committee, stressed the need to pay particular attention to children and minors in the development of such a strategy. the report then highlights the misuse of existing eu funds for roma integration: administrative delays and burdens, low awareness, lack of involvement of local authorities - all the difficulties facing states, local authorities, stakeholders, etc. that need to be addressed in order to make full use of these eu funds. this strategy will then have to be decided by each member state and will therefore be measured on the ground.
in writing. the integration of the roma community is a genuine european issue, which is why the european union must tackle the root causes of discrimination against the roma community, by fighting against stereotypes, and for equal access to employment, housing, healthcare and education. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has taken up the matter and adopted this report, which is intended to inform the commission's thinking. this report denounces the misuse by member states of european funds normally allocated to roma integration projects, but i would like the commission to go further, by forcing member states to publicly justify their use of these funds.
in writing. this resolution is once again mere declarations. i welcome the fact that this text denounces racist hate speech, ethnic profiling, illegal fingerprinting and illegal expulsions. but i denounce the lies we are being told: full powers for the commission in this area, stigmatisation of the roma in a text which purports to defend them, competition in the labour market and competitiveness clusters. this mixing of the sexes is unacceptable.
the deindustrialisation of europe is a reality. its technological and economic position is threatened by the intensification of globalisation and intense competition from rapidly developing countries. the european union must therefore adopt an industrial policy that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work. the objectives are: to revive the economy, boost employment, reduce environmental degradation and improve the quality of life. that is the spirit of this resolution, which i supported. i am particularly in favour of the launch of european bonds which would enable the european union to finance innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation.
in writing. industrial policy is essential for the european union, and this report is an opportunity for the european commission: the initial communication was disappointing. the work of our assembly offers the commission concrete proposals which it must take up. this report must be linked to our proposals, supported by the whole of the european parliament this week, including the principle of a 'financial transaction tax' at european level and the issuing of european bonds, the eurobonds. our policies must demonstrate that social innovation and technological innovation are compatible.
in writing. europe clearly needs to define a european industrial strategy for the long term. we cannot be the only global economic area to apply the principles of free trade unilaterally and in complete disregard of the behaviour of our major competitors. the european commission must be well aware that with the crisis the rules in place are no longer adapted to the current economy, and that it is time to seriously strengthen the european union's anti-dumping arsenal and the application of the general principle of reciprocity in trade. the european union needs a european strategy with major industrial projects, such as galileo or iter. it must also support its production lines and its sme network. it must promote and develop its investment in research and development in an attempt to maintain its technological lead. the commission must also step up its action against counterfeiting and defend an aggressive policy on european patents.
in writing. the text is not of high quality, since it is the result of a very broad compromise between meps; it contains elements which are both very positive for the greens and some ideas which we have tried in vain to denounce. but the main thing is that it allows meps to express a rather progressive opinion on the flagship programme for industry in the eu 2020 strategy. the text calls for the sustainability of transport systems to be enhanced through more efficient technologies, interoperability and innovative mobility solutions. it calls for energy and resource savings to be placed at the heart of european industrial policy. in this respect, it recalls the considerable potential for job creation and the cost-reduction benefits of energy efficiency improvements. the adoption of measures to ensure energy efficiency improvements should therefore underpin initiatives in all industrial sectors. meps also want to encourage all efforts to close skills gaps, to promote the skills of the workforce and to boost the value of industry among young graduates.
in writing. i regret that this report was not presented earlier. for example, at a time when brussels was chastising the creation of industrial champions. or the time of mittal's hostile takeover bid for arcelor, which dispossessed europe of what was left of its steel industry. for decades the european union has been working hard to destroy our fabric and our industrial jobs, through the european sectoral policies, the european competition policy, the european free trade policy which you have all systematically praised, supported and promoted. in the face of this disaster, you are now timidly turning to what the national front has long been proposing: recognition of the indispensable nature of an industrial base, the definition of strategic sectors, protection against unfair competition and support for penetration of external markets, guarantee and security of supplies of raw materials, regulation of public procurement, the subordination of competition policy to strategic, socioeconomic or public service imperatives, public support for emerging or innovative sectors... but it is far too late and europe, which has not renounced its ultra-liberal ideological foundations, is certainly not the best level for deciding and implementing such policies.
mr president, madam high representative, i have observed a strange trend within the european union: despite statements criticising israeli human rights violations, the member states and the commission are working hard to strengthen political and economic relations with israel without any conditions. on 22 february the union de facto increased its association agreement with israel, promising to intensify cooperation on several so-called technical agreements in various fields: competition, access to the public market, israel's integration into the european research area and its agencies such as europol, the european space agency, and more. on 31 january, the commission authorised the transfer of eu citizens' personal data to israel, which is suspected of having used eu citizens' passports to carry out an extrajudicial killing in dubai last year. israel, which is already involved in more than 800 projects with european universities and companies, will receive more than €500 million in grants in 2013. beneficiaries include arms manufacturers elbit and israel aerospace industries, which manufactures the drones and planes used against gaza residents. at the association council, the european union welcomed the new measures announced by mr netanyahu for gaza and the west bank. could you tell us, madam, what kind of facilitation is this, when hundreds of gaza truck drivers are protesting at this very moment against the closure of the karni crossing and what mr netanyahu is proposing to stop the rampant colonization of jerusalem and the west bank? i thank you, madam president, for sending a message of encouragement and a real message of hope to all the women who marched yesterday in palestine and who expect a great deal from the european union.
mr president, madam high representative, the arab revolutions are in line with the aspirations of the palestinian people. but there is a difference: the palestinians are not fighting against their leader but against an outside power that dominates them, humiliates them, plunders them, colonizes them, imprisons them, steals their land and homes, erects walls and a blockade on gaza while leaving a million of their own in refugee camps, in violation of international law. madam high representative, i have heard your explanations, but the european union must be more firm and more active. the arab peoples are watching us. everything is changing in the middle east. the israeli leadership, which is bound by the universal values of law, must also change. use all means at your disposal, including questioning the partnership agreements. i agree with you about gilad shalit, but i have already asked you what you intend to do to free a young french-palestinian, salah hamouri, who is languishing in israeli prisons for no reason. finally, madam high representative, please produce a strong political act, a political act of the first importance: that the european union officially recognises, without delay, the palestinian state within the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, everyone can see that the tide is turning in the middle east with this democratic wave which is sweeping through the maghreb, the mashrek and egypt. this historic upheaval in the arab countries must be seen by israel and the palestinian leadership as an opportunity and not as a risk. i do believe that the democratic breakthrough on the borders of israel and the palestinian territories can be an opportunity for both sides to seize. today, israelis and palestinians are faced with a reality, the world around them is moving, it's time for them to move too. so the time has come for europe to force dialogue, to open real negotiations and to start a genuine peace process with a view to achieving a lasting solution of two states coexisting peacefully. but at this crucial moment it would be incomprehensible and inappropriate for the union to no longer have a special envoy for the middle east. i would therefore ask you, madam high representative, to clarify this matter.
in writing. the arab revolutions must not distract us from the middle east peace process. on the contrary, they are an opportunity to seize. palestine is going to hold presidential and legislative elections before the summer, and the palestinian authority wants to give itself legitimate institutions and manage its security. the continuation of israeli settlement is an injustice and a provocation to the palestinians. we have an opportunity today, with this wind of freedom blowing over the entire arab world, to revive the negotiations. the eu must take the initiative to revive them. why not in the context of the union for the mediterranean?
mr president, it should be noted that with the crisis and the bursting of the housing and credit bubble, the irish state had to step in to support the banks. the irish public deficit, the cumulative budget balance of central, local and especially social security administrations, is estimated at 32% of gross domestic product in 2010. if the irish government, which can hardly refinance itself on the markets, wants to access loans from the mechanism and the european financial stability facility, it will have to meet social and fiscal change obligations, whereas these are areas of subsidiarity. in our view, this is not antinomian. as a doctor, i would say that in the case of fever, it is pointless to prescribe antipyretics blindly without trying to treat the cause. if these funds are allocated, it is for the state to clean up its finances in order to close its excessive deficit and correct its past mistakes. this austerity plan is expected to improve gdp by 10% over the next four years. as in the case of an individual, a bank, without interfering in his private life and management, will make his personal loan conditional on a guarantee of solvency. similarly, the european union may lend to ireland on the basis of consolidated solvency. without interfering with private management, the bank will encourage the individual to negotiate, for example, a salary increase or to borrow elsewhere. in accordance with subsidiarity, the european union, on the basis of a memorandum with the imf, considers that solvency is achieved by reducing the legal minimum wage and adjusting pensions without exempting itself from taxation. it is for ireland to decide whether or not to implement these measures. it is not the open door to european union interference in the areas of subsidiarity that would allow, for example, the dangerous imposition of a european minimum wage, but the protection of the stability of the euro zone through a process of mutual guarantee. of course, ireland needs help, as do other countries in difficulty, which also protects us, but not at any price, including the price of a state that is unable to pay back on time, thus making its citizens and those of the whole european union vulnerable.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, just under a year ago, 300 airports in europe were closed in 23 out of 27 eu countries. this has caused considerable financial losses, and above all - as my colleagues have pointed out - more than ten million people, not all of whom were on a tourist trip, have had to postpone their trip and find other means of transport. it is the result of the chaos caused by a totally natural event which has put us in an important context with respect to nature, and which has caused an unprecedented paralysis in the european sky. of course, it is difficult to predict a volcanic eruption and even more so the formation of this ash cloud - of course more difficult than predicting a snow episode - but the crisis that was caused by this cloud has highlighted all the shortcomings and deficiencies of air traffic management in the union, the weakness and absence of a number of management tools. these three findings lead me to three proposals to make: the first, on the order of the imperative convenience, the second on the need for the community method to respond to this kind of challenge, and the third, obviously at the centre of our concerns, on the presence of passenger rights as a central element of our concerns. as regards the first element, the crisis has highlighted the absolute need to improve the comfort of european transport, since the cloud has shown the limits not only of air systems at european level, but also of rail, since many travellers have not been able to find an alternative. it is possible to imagine - and this has been demonstrated in studies carried out over the past year - that with more ease the scale of the crisis would not have been so great and the paralysis would have been a little less severe. as regards the second element, just as in the financial crisis and just as in the debates we have on the community method versus the intergovernmental method, here, in the field of transport, it is not the intergovernmental method, it is not a fragmented response by 27 member states that will be able to solve the difficulties we have experienced, and which may recur, but a genuine community method. to do this, we must strengthen eurocontrol's powers in a community system and, of course, as the honourable members have said, we must complete the single european sky as a matter of urgency. thirdly, passengers are at the heart and centre of our concerns. (the president interrupts the speaker) as i said in the introduction, we will have understood that what i have saved for the end is the essential thing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the eruption of the icelandic volcano last april - and many of us have said this before - provided a painful illustration of the fragmentation and inefficiency of the european skies. and every one of us in this chamber has been directly affected. five million of our fellow citizens have been stranded without any real alternative transportation solution. one year after this exceptional event, new european measures are still awaited. a first crisis exercise - as you said, mr commissioner - linked to volcanic ash is planned for 13 and 14 april under the coordination of eurocontrol, the international civil aviation organisation and the international air transport association, but it is essential that the european aviation safety agency (easa) takes a real lead in coordinating safety measures at european level. it is certain that the information provided by the vac (visual approach chart) in london and toulouse needs to be refined using more modern technological means. however, as we saw last april, these data can be contradictory and can lead to individual member states taking decisions on the closure of their airspace less on the basis of information than on the basis of emotion. in this context, the role of easa is essential to provide a harmonised interpretation of these data, as well as to ensure the centralisation and the proper dissemination of information. in addition to vac information, easa should establish a mechanism to collect available data by closely involving member states, airlines and their pilots. this centralisation of information and coordination of all the actors involved will avoid the chaos and inconsistencies we witnessed last year. i therefore expect the commission, together with easa, to be able to come forward quickly with concrete proposals which will be fully integrated into the realisation of the single european sky.
mr president, i thank the honourable members who have spoken before for pointing out all the shortcomings of european integration of air transport, both in the use of airspace and in the use of ground structures and commercial networks. i would also like to stress, more specifically, the extra-air aspects that the volcano crisis has revealed, namely the inadequacy of alternative transport networks to air transport and, in particular, railway networks as was mentioned this morning, and also, and above all, the absence of integrated information systems enabling passengers to find information quickly on the alternative transport available. this accident should encourage us to work towards the development of alternative, efficient and competitive modes of transport. the revision of the first railway package and the relaunch of infrastructure policies through the transeuropean transport networks must be geared to this. i also call on the commission to give serious consideration to the creation of a single information and booking interface for all the interconnected modes of transport.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, before the vote on the resolution on the media law in hungary, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the latest developments in the situation and make a concrete proposal. four days ago the hungarian parliament adopted the amendments - all the amendments - requested by the european commission despite the negative vote by the hungarian socialist and green members of parliament. commissioner kroes was present at the vote and announced that the amended version of the law was in line with european law and in particular with the charter of fundamental rights. the resolution of the left groups, which is being put to the vote this afternoon, completely ignores these facts. the text is almost the same as that of three weeks ago and makes no mention of the vote in the hungarian parliament. i ask the following question: does this parliament live in reality or in imagination? is this resolution directed against the hungarian government or against the european commission, which has no objections to the law? (applause) i would like to thank in particular, i would ask the president of the liberal group: do you trust commissioner kroes, yes or no? the ppe group believes that this parliament would lose its credibility if it adopted texts which do not correspond to reality. should we turn ourselves into a theatre for settling national political scores? (applause) i would like to thank in these circumstances, the epp group withdraws its own text of the resolution and calls on the other groups to do the same. the credibility of parliament is at stake.
mr president, i would simply point out that when you put paragraph 8 on the original text to the vote, in the french translation we were told that it was paragraph 19. so there was a misunderstanding about the voting instructions.
in writing. democracy is by no means a fact. it evolves, improves, and unfortunately also regresses with the times. the hungarian measures on the media are a serious step backwards in this respect. the agreement of all european progressives has made it possible, for the first time, to put the subject at the forefront of european political news: this is a good thing. it is now a question of being specific and firm on the points which continue to be problematic. the independence of media governance and freedom of expression are not negotiable.
in writing. freedom of the press must not be compromised. this is the message that the european parliament has wanted to send not only to budapest but also to the european commission. the european parliament approved a resolution calling on the hungarian government to suspend and "urgently review" the controversial hungarian media law despite it having been amended recently under pressure from its european partners. however, there is still concern about the media council, the body responsible for overseeing the media, which is composed entirely of people close to mr orban's party. in fact, this watchdog is a perfect tool for censoring the media. that is why the european democratic parliamentarians, the guarantors of citizens' freedom of expression in the eu and around the world, have called for an end to state interference in order to restore the independence of the media.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution by the european left, which criticises the inadequacy of the amendments made by hungary to its media law, while the right welcomes them. the european parliament also welcomed the commission's proposal to amend the charter of fundamental rights to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections. similarly, our resolution is not only addressed to hungary, but notes that unfortunately media freedom and pluralism can be weakened in countries with conservative governments. in this sense, meps are showing that they are attentive to respect for the fundamental freedoms and rights which are the very principles of democracies and the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which is in the right direction as regards the european union's reaction to the revolution in libya which is degenerating into civil war. revolutions are a dream come true, but civil war is a nightmare. as the opposition loses ground under fire from gaddafi's troops and mercenaries, and as the colonel sends emissaries to european capitals to try to save his regime, we must show the libyan people that we are on their side. we hear the appeal issued by the national interim transitional council on 5 march. we have a duty to support this alternative and to protect the libyan people from the regime forces. without a direct military presence on libyan soil, we must consider a no-fly zone. but the decision is up to the un. this option is, however, only possible with the explicit consent of the arab league. on the political and diplomatic front, we must ensure that colonel gaddafi is isolated and that the libyan people are given a strong hand so that they can finally regain their freedom.
in writing. this resolution, which was adopted by a large majority and to which i contributed, shows that the european parliament is not going to remain silent on the situation in libya. on the contrary, by his position he is encouraging the european union, the member states and mrs ashton to follow him in his proposals. it reaffirmed its support for the libyan people and called, inter alia, for recognition of the libyan interim national council and for support for the establishment of a no-fly zone, in accordance with a united nations mandate and in coordination with the arab league and the african union. it also condemned in the strongest terms the violations of human rights in libya by the regime and called on muammar gaddafi to relinquish power immediately. my only regret is that the issue of refugees and migrants has not been sufficiently taken into account and presented as a common challenge for these countries and the european union.
in writing. i vote for the text and the proposed measures concerning airspace in order to help the people in action against the tyrant who bombs them. my vote is strictly limited to the following: any act of war, such as the creation of a no-fly zone, can only be decided by the un and exclusively by the un. this action must be placed under the authority of the un military command and it alone. any decision must be taken in consultation with the organizations of the african union and the arab league. i am firmly opposed to the us idea of pre-emptive bombing and to nato intervention. any further development would require a different text and other provisions.
in writing. i voted for the european parliament resolution on libya, which is a clear message of political support for the libyan revolution. the european parliament first and foremost expressed its solidarity with the libyan people and condemned the human rights violations and violent repression by the gaddafi regime. the no-fly zone is envisaged in paragraph 10 of the resolution and is placed in the un framework to prevent the regime from targeting the civilian population, in consultation with the arab league and the african union. this paragraph may, however, be subject to various interpretations. for some, it is only to prevent muammar gaddafi's planes from firing on the population and this statement may have a preventive role that can go as far as preventing said planes from murdering libyan civilians. for others, it is a first step towards possible military intervention. i abstained on that ambiguous paragraph. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, although i regret that it does not recognise the past mistakes of the union in its relations with libya, including on immigration.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this resolution on both substantive and procedural questions. the text of the resolution reinforces the idea of a 'double standard' eu policy on human rights, in particular on the issue of human rights violations in the occupied palestinian territories. the few amendments tabled on this subject, which i supported, do not overlook the fact that the union refuses to implement the guidelines of the goldstone report. the gue/ngl tabled its own resolution supporting the universality of human rights in all social, economic and cultural fields. on the other hand, the resolution was intended to vote on the mandate of the union's delegation to the un human rights council for its 16th session, which began on 28 february with several speeches by mrs ashton. it is not very sensible to vote on this resolution when the human rights council has already started its session, the european parliament should have given its position in advance.
for the greens/efa group mr president, these murders are obviously intolerable, but what is even more intolerable is the feeling of impunity that prevails despite the increase in attacks. unfortunately, pakistani citizens and families of victims cannot expect much from a judicial system plagued by corruption, intimidation, and lack of training of investigators and prosecutors. the instructions are years old and based on discriminatory laws. the criminal justice system in particular needs to be reformed and given real credibility at both national and international levels. according to a survey conducted by the heinrich böll foundation in universities, young pakistanis believe that the credibility of the judicial system is more decisive for the survival of the country than military force or the parliamentary system. the european union must therefore use all the instruments at its disposal to strengthen judicial cooperation with pakistan.
mr president, i too would like to express my deepest sympathy with the cowardly assassination on 2 march of the pakistani minister responsible for christian minorities, mr bahti. this terrorist-type murder follows many other murders of brave, tolerant, human rights-loving, human rights and women's rights defenders, i must say. we again urge the pakistani government to bring this cowardly murder to light and to provide effective protection for those threatened by fanatical religious extremists. and i am thinking, of course, first and foremost, but not exclusively, of mrs sherry rehman. i would also like to make a strong request to all the relevant institutions of the european union to include in the negotiations for the preparation of future cooperation agreements, in particular the cooperation agreement between the union and pakistan, a clause on respect for religious freedom and respect for human rights. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i fully agree with your severity. i hope it will also apply to journalists who cannot be provocative in the commission of a crime and who also have serious ethical failings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, you know as well as i do that there is a legal challenge to mr hortefeux's eligibility to be a member of this parliament. i think it is a bit disappointing that the french government does not wait for us to verify this status. mr hortefeux, who did not sign his acceptance and did not take part in the inaugural session in strasbourg, cannot replace the one he wants to replace. that is why i ask the european people's party, which is so legalistic, to wait until there is a legal decision on whether mr hortefeux can sit here. if not, it's a legal scandal. it's like we're organizing it.
mr president, our colleague mr cohn-bendit, who has called a president, a prime minister, a dictator with mr chavez, is not the first person to have experienced a lack of respect for democracy. brice hortefeux was elected as a member of the european parliament in june 2009. there's no question about that. he was then appointed minister of the interior. french law states that a representative elected to the european parliament who enters the government, when he leaves the government, regains his seat. that is exactly what i said. mr cohn-bendit interrupted: 'he had no seat, that is the problem, mr president.' brice hortefeux was elected as a representative to the european parliament. do you agree? i will conclude, mr president. it is unquestionable, by the treaties and by the laws, that it is for the member states to appoint the elected representatives. brice hortefeux has been elected and is therefore the legitimate candidate of the french authorities for a seat in our assembly. what you have said is inadmissible.
mr president, i would simply like to say to my friend mr cohn-bendit that in order to challenge a post, it must first be proposed. if it is not proposed, the legal affairs committee cannot analyse the situation. before you intervene in this way, i suggest you think before you act. that's all i'm saying. (interruption by mr cohn-bendit: 'yes, but he may not be seated') you're the one who's asking me to respect the law. i've always respected the law. now let the legal affairs committee decide. and she can't decide unless there's a proposal. if this proposal is not legal, the legal committee will tell us. once again, think before you act.
mr president, i entirely agree with the idea that we should wait for the results of the legal analysis. i would just like to say one thing, that in our country the extremists are on the rise and that is probably because a part of the political class considers the mandates and the positions to be at its disposal. we expect a little more from france, especially as regards the parliament which has its seat in strasbourg.
in writing. the european council, which brings together european heads of state and government, is currently discussing the establishment of a stability mechanism for the euro area member states. the aim is to jointly guarantee the financial stability of the union, which is being undermined today. in this resolution, which i consider to be balanced, parliament welcomes this initiative but calls for more than temporary measures to stabilise the euro area. i share this view and believe that the eu must continue to strengthen its economic governance, not only to stabilise but also to foster sustainable growth.
in writing. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial institutions are able to comply with the obligations of the treaty and to ensure that the eu's financial institutions are able to comply with the obligations of the treaty. this decision will help to ensure the sustainability of the financial stabilisation mechanism, which has proved its effectiveness since its creation last may. we will thus have a well-funded mechanism of €700 billion, which will be able to lend at the best rate and under strict conditions to the eurozone countries in difficulty. however, it was not conceivable that the revision of the treaties would strengthen a mechanism based on purely intergovernmental commitments. the community method we advocate is the guarantee of equal treatment of all the member states of the eurozone in accessing, under strict conditions, this rescue fund. as for the imf, we will remain very attentive to the conditions of its participation.
in writing. in the absence of other solutions proposed by the council, voting for the continuation of the european stability mechanism was necessary to help our greek, portuguese and irish comrades. but the debate is far from over. this concession by the french socialists does not bode well for the outcome of further debates on economic governance. the establishment of this intergovernmental mechanism is an important step forward in the development of tools to promote the recovery of growth and activity. it is partly to be able to finance such tools that i am campaigning alongside my socialist colleagues for an increase in the european union's own resources. we could also use the structural funds together with the european stability mechanism to bring the deficit countries upwards. it is with ambitious budgets and the promotion of the european social model that we will be able to emerge from the crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a stability mechanism (esm) for euro area member states to help some of our neighbours in difficulty. this mechanism is an embryo of what could be the future of eurobonds, which would finance the union's budget and loosen the financial markets' grip on the sovereign debt of states. i regret, however, the way in which the esm was approved, namely by simply consulting the european parliament, because it was the intergovernmental logic that prevailed over the community logic, which puts at risk the quality of a democratic debate which is necessary for the establishment of an effective economic policy. this mechanism remains a partial and insufficient response to foster growth and return to employment.
in writing. this report endorses the institutionalisation of the european commission, ecb and imf's control over the budgets and policy reforms of the euro area member states. it says nothing about the social injustices that citizens will have to endure in order to benefit from the financial assistance that the european stability mechanism will implement. nor is there any mention of the causes of the crisis which are driving governments to accept the bloodletting of their people in order to reassure the financial markets. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the simplified procedure for the revision of the treaty of lisbon in an attempt to avoid a possible referendum. only my group stands out by calling for referendums in all the member states. your european oligarchy is afraid of democracy. she is right: the european peoples, like the maghreb, want to say to her: get out!
in writing. the draining of european public finances, in contrast to a vital commitment by member states to contain the slowdown in growth following the financial crisis, has created considerable public deficits which are the subject of unbridled speculation. he called for the european stability mechanism (esm) to be maintained. i welcome the institutionalisation of this mechanism, which clearly expresses solidarity within the euro area and in turn calls for greater responsibility on the part of its members. on the one hand, the activation of this mechanism provides assistance to member states in serious financial difficulties and, on the other hand, it requires, in return, a reduction in their deficit. by introducing the mutual management of part of the public debt of the member states and by converging their economies, this mechanism is in fact part of a more comprehensive strategy which is widely supported by my political family: the economic governance of the euro area. this is not a theoretical device or a european artifice, but an obvious necessity and a real step forward for europe. the strength of our currency, our ability to import cheaply and our ability to attract investment to europe depend on this strategy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council is about to meet for the second week in a row in a climate of uncertainty and international tension: uncertainty in japan, where the considerable human losses are still difficult to determine; uncertainty in the mediterranean, as new peoples rise up against their regime, as in bahrain and - as you said, mr president - in yemen. all of this has, of course, implications for us europeans. the japanese drama was experienced by our fellow citizens. the sympathy for the thousands of families who are in mourning is further enhanced, at the moment of this debate, by the fear of the malfunctioning of the fukushima nuclear power plant and the fear of the dangers we ourselves might face in a similar or comparable case. it is clear that these events must be taken fully into account by all the countries with nuclear power stations and it is useful for this parliament to organise a debate on nuclear safety, without losing sight of the need for us europeans to strengthen rather than diminish our energy independence. we shall return to this subject in our next session. the heads of state and government of the 27 will also discuss this weekend the un intervention in libya to save the insurgents from imminent attacks by the ruling power. i would like to emphasize that it was european states that took the initiative in these operations and that they were the first to intervene under a un mandate, also at the initiative of several european states. they must have heard what the colleagues said at our last mini-session here in brussels. my group hopes that the council will be the occasion to complete the european strategy for the mediterranean, always with the concern to help and accompany without ever imposing. it's our duty as neighbors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after last week's euro-zone summit, which set the stage, the european council's main actions this week will be to strengthen the euro and make progress towards economic governance. the ppe group supports the increase in funds available to support the euro and the continuation of the ad hoc instrument we adopted last year to help greece and ireland. this political will reflects the spirit of responsibility shown by the member states in dealing with a crisis unprecedented since the creation of our single currency. we are, however, strongly urging that the exceptional situation created by the drift of national public finances should not be an opportunity for the council to change its method of managing european affairs. the community method must remain the rule and the intergovernmental method the exception. there is a very strong majority in the european parliament in support of this principle and the barroso commission supports us in this approach, simply because it is vital for the future of the union. i have no doubt that president van rompuy will be able to convince the heads of state and government of this. the euro pact is also due to be adopted on friday, a pact which we welcome as it provides for what we have been asking for for months, namely convergence of budgetary, social and fiscal policies between the member states. i say it again and again: european solidarity will only be accepted by our peoples if they consider it just and deserved. this will only be the case if working conditions are matched and if our companies can invest and recruit in a comparable tax environment. finally, our group calls on the council to make rapid progress on the economic governance package and to take due account of the position of the european parliament, which is co-legislator on four of the six items under discussion. europe must return to the path of growth and employment and the measures that are emerging are in the right direction. as long as they are decided within a community framework, they will enable europe to start over on a sound basis, one which will bear fruit in the future.
mr president, this next council is probably the last chance for european leaders to remember that we founded europe to defend values and to act together when the essential is at stake. but when a people find themselves in the grip of a ruler's death threat, that is the essence of the matter. thanks to the efforts of france and britain, a resolution was adopted. we were able to stop gaddafi from reaching benghazi. but the division of europe is appalling. the council of tomorrow must send a strong signal, support the current intervention, recognise the libyan resistance to strengthen it and further isolate gaddafi so that this regime falls. and that is also the essence of it when we see what is happening in bahrain, in yemen, in syria. this is also the main point when we see the cycle of violence resuming and flaring up in the middle east. we, the european parliament, expect the european leaders to act before it is too late. the story is going on in much of the world. political courage is about being there: that is precisely what we expect from europe and its leaders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 24 march, will be a symbolic day. it will be marked first of all by the amendment to the treaty of lisbon which we have just voted to allow the establishment of a permanent european stability mechanism. this mechanism offers the union the possibility of designing embryonic eurobonds to finance low-interest sovereign debt in the event of speculative attacks. it is a pity that we stopped halfway. in the face of irrational exuberance in the markets, the revision of the treaty should have been an opportunity to allow the central bank to buy back public debt in the event of a tension on interest rates, as is done in the united states. the glass is even less full because the counterpart required is the implementation of the competitiveness pact renamed the pact for the euro. it's the second symbol of tomorrow's day. this pact is jointly defended by the council, the commission and the ecb. my fellow members, you all know the washington consensus, you loved it! well, 24 march marks the birth of the brussels consensus. the brussels consensus is the brutal and indiscriminate application of the neoliberal dogma: reduction of the scope of public services and the welfare state, wage austerity, minimum regulation of the financial markets. ladies and gentlemen, the council, the commission and the ecb have short memories. they propose that we incorporate the euro pact into the governance package to institutionalise policies which are precisely what caused the crisis. in spain, the anglo-saxon countries and elsewhere, the rise in household debt, fuelled by the financial industry, has no other cause than the crisis in purchasing power resulting from the wage moderation of the last twenty years. unfortunately, the euro pact proposes to perpetuate wage austerity. as for the public debt, everywhere, it is not only the result of the crisis, but also the result of unnecessary tax cuts advocated by the liberals and the conservatives. there has been no explosion of public spending in europe, quite the contrary. the budgetary and wage austerity, combined with the interest rate hike already planned by the european central bank, will eventually kill european domestic demand, kill the recovery without reducing deficits. we will be standing with the workers who will be demonstrating against this brussels consensus tomorrow, it is the third symbol of the 24th of march. if we do not want to see the return of the brown forces against which europe was built, the elected representatives of the people must stand with the people to denounce policies that are as unjust as they are ineffective.
, in writing. the rapporteur wanted to place a paragraph on the eu decentralised agencies under the chapter 'sustainability and accountability at the heart of the 2012 budget'. i share the main idea that is being put forward, namely that agencies add value to the policies of the european union, and this in sectors as varied as vocational training, the environment, internal security or rail transport. however, i also share the view that in terms of sustainability and budgetary accountability, the agencies system can be improved. the tasks and powers of the agencies sometimes overlap, and the cost of running some of them is high, in view of the constraints imposed by our budgetary and financial regulation. therefore, the expenditure of decentralised agencies could be rationalised with a system of shared services for assistance in the budgetary process, assistance in tender procedures and legal advice, for example. finally, during the last discharge procedure, parliament also wanted to draw attention to the control of the commission and parliament over decentralised agencies; it must be strengthened, as experience has shown.
madam president, the terrible disaster which occurred in the northeastern region of japan, the tōhoku, naturally arouses the compassion and sympathy of all europeans. beyond that, we must naturally help with the relief effort because i think the situation is far from stabilized in japan. it is a wonderful country, a country of great dignity, strength, courage and a sense of duty, but where bureaucracy, as everywhere, has the effect of paralysing initiatives. one of the lessons of this disaster is that the most effective relief is that which ultimately arrives by sea. of course, there must also be sufficient platforms nearby. the situation is not stable and many refugees still suffer from cold and hunger. the lessons of this tragedy, in our view, are these: the first is that the worst always happens, the worst always happens. the titanic was built as an unsinkable ship. god himself could not sink it, so the publicity was made. it actually sank, despite the watertight boxes, on its first voyage, because the waterway was not designed to extend that far. well, the worst always happens, the earthquake plus the tsunami, that was obviously the worst case scenario. but there will be other earthquakes, there will be the great kanto earthquake that we expect from one moment to the next. there may be some in california, maybe in italy, maybe in the caribbean. we must therefore provide for this by strengthening civil protection, as has been said. the second and final lesson is that we must not give in to panic. we cannot at the same time demand that nuclear energy be phased out because of the dangers of fallout and at the same time say that fossil fuels must be phased out because of the release of co2 into the atmosphere. we'll have to make a choice.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam minister, a number, a statement, a question. i would like to ask you a question. one figure: more than 10 million refugees worldwide. these are vulnerable people, women at risk, children, unaccompanied minors. this is a serious crisis, to which we must bring responses that demonstrate our commitment to human rights. one observation: parliament has given its consent for a year now, and i join my colleague in asking the minister to note the very strong consensus that exists in parliament on this issue. one question: i do not want to believe that there is any cynicism on the part of the council, which would lead it to use in the procedure the fact that the first reading is not subject to a deadline to block the co-decision process. so, what about the emergency relocation? this cannot wait until 2012, madam minister. i propose that we break out of the schizophrenia which leads states to take firm and coherent positions in speeches and to advocate the opposite when the legal framework could take shape, as we feel here, and that it must respond to an urgent need, which is that of our world today.
madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the humanitarian crisis in libya, it is now more important than ever that europe should be able to take concerted action on resettlement. while unhcr has called since 1 march for the international community to participate in an emergency resettlement effort, no member state has so far declared its intention to participate. italy alone has taken in 58 eritreans evacuated urgently from tripoli, but i hear there is a programme, a hypothesis of resettling 4,000 people stuck in the libyan context. so i'd like to know more about that. the european union's responsibility in this area cannot be allowed to stand idle. we must show greater solidarity with these states and their people. tunisia and egypt have agreed to open their borders to those fleeing libya. europe must support them and play its part in the international effort to protect refugees. but beyond the urgency of the humanitarian crisis in libya, europe faces many challenges in resettlement. i'll give you three. on the one hand, the european union must work towards a more generous resettlement policy for those for whom resettlement is a last resort. in this respect, we should all bear in mind that in 2009, some 85 000 refugees were resettled worldwide, but only 8.4% were resettled in the member states of the european union. in addition to this quantitative objective, any credible european resettlement policy must also ensure the quality of preparations before the departure of candidates for resettlement, taking into account the most vulnerable persons, and the quality of reception and integration structures on arrival. finally, as a complement to existing national asylum systems, the european resettlement programme should, as already highlighted in parliament's 2010 position, draw on the different experiences and results within the member states and be subject to strong coordination.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important text. it is not a revolution: we cannot say that everything was bad before and that everything is perfect now. but it does present a number of major advances at this provisional stage of our work. the main ones, in my view, concern better regulation of distance selling, and in particular on the internet (chapter iii), as consumer rights in this area need to be strengthened. e-commerce is very useful: it gives consumers more choice, allows them to get the lowest prices, and also allows small and medium-sized businesses and artisans to find new outlets. to make progress in this area, it was necessary to do so in a truly european way, that is to say, by proceeding, in a few very specific points, to a complete harmonization of the rights and duties of everyone. in practical terms, an italian customer who buys on a belgian or a german site should know that he will now enjoy the same rights and the same protection. that is what this directive will make possible. this means that the consumer's withdrawal period will be reduced to 14 days throughout the union. this means that he will know the total amount he will have to pay right away, without fear of a nasty surprise afterwards. this means that by double-clicking, he will correctly check his order. of course, all of this will shake up some habits. in many countries there are subtleties in national law that everyone believes are fundamental, whereas in neighbouring countries there is sometimes not even a trace of them. but living together in europe means learning to change your habits a little in the service of the community and the general interest. let us be clear: this text still needs to be improved and we will have to do so in the coming weeks, with the council and the commission. i have appreciated the newly opened doors in this respect. we have already done a substantial job thanks to our rapporteur, andreas schwab, to whom i am very grateful. but the real fruit of this work is above all the fact that the amendments will be voted on tomorrow by all the political groups. consumer confidence in the union's internal market is very weak. this political unanimity was necessary to preserve it and hopefully to strengthen it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwab, and all the shadows, including evelyne gebhardt, on the work they have done. the commission's original proposal was an aberration, putting the level of consumer protection at risk by seeking to harmonize it completely. but this is only justifiable if harmonization is done upwards and not downwards, as proposed. i therefore welcome most of the compromises that have been found, which respect the possibility for member states to introduce stricter rules if they wish, while guaranteeing a high minimum level for all consumers in the union. the maximum duration of contracts is fixed at 12 months, and information on distance or direct sales contracts is improved, since payment is due only after the expiry of the 14-day withdrawal period. on the other hand, it is unacceptable to maintain full harmonization in chapter v, which deals with unfair terms. not only is the level of protection not sufficient, but it also ignores the reality of fraudulent practices, which require a degree of responsiveness that european legislation cannot provide. it would therefore be irresponsible to deprive the member states of any room for manoeuvre in this area. i therefore hope that the co-legislators will reach a balanced text which provides a genuine common basis for a high level of protection.
mr president, first of all i would like to commend the work done by our rapporteur, andreas schwab, which has enabled us today to reach a broad agreement across all the political groups on this text, which was not well-developed. yes, europe must be progressive and concrete, and we see this with these consumer proposals. europeans will now be able to benefit from a right of withdrawal when making purchases on online auction platforms such as e-bay. we have succeeded in presenting a text which will, on the one hand, strengthen the framework conditions for increasing crossborder trade within the european union and, on the other hand, not lower the level of consumer protection in the member states but, on the contrary, increase it. firstly, i am one of those who believe that in order to consolidate our exit from the crisis we must create new sources of growth, and that through the simplification and rationalisation of european law our companies will be able to take better advantage of the potential of the single market. did you know that only 22% of purchases in europe are cross-border? providing a better regulatory framework for businesses is therefore also a contribution to economic recovery. in negotiating this text, we wanted to have an ambitious but pragmatic approach. the principle was simple: no harmonization without equivalent protection. that is why i am glad that we have been able to retain certain aspects of national legislation which are very dear to the consumers of this or that member state. as far as we are concerned, in france our consumers will be able to continue to avail themselves of the protection of the hidden defects guarantee or of the maintenance of our very protective home-shopping system. we are also showing today that the european parliament, both right and left, is able to respond to people's daily concerns, and i am pleased about that. the solution is more europe, of course, but not just any europe. we need a europe that protects, a europe that reassures and a europe that offers opportunities to europeans, citizens, consumers and businesses.
in writing. i would like to thank mr schwab and the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. the commission's original proposal was unacceptable because it aimed at fully harmonising the rules on consumer rights but without systematically aligning them with the most favourable national legislation. in other words, many states would have been obliged to remove from their national legislation provisions which, however, offered better protection to consumers. in france, two major acquis should have been abandoned: the "vice cachée" system and the prohibition on a home-based trader collecting payment before the end of the withdrawal period. but with my socialist colleagues we have succeeded in changing this approach and making minimum harmonization the rule. we have also succeeded in strengthening consumer rights on a number of points, including information to be provided by the trader and provisions on the withdrawal period. there is one problem, however: chapter v. we cannot accept that the rules on unfair terms should be completely harmonised, because this would deprive the states of any capacity to react to commercial practices which are changing day by day and sometimes involve serious dangers for consumers.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to stress that this report is the result of very constructive work with the political groups and i personally thank mr howitt, mrs brepoels and mrs brantner and mrs jäätteenmäki for their cooperation. as you know, this report deals with the overall strategy for relations between the european union and the cooperation council for the arab states of the gulf. our work started several months ago, so before the events that are happening in the arab world. since then, powerful demonstrations have been taking place everywhere - including in the gulf - calling for greater respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. but from the very beginning of our work, even before the events began, the report and the amendments adopted in committee raised all the problems that are at the root of the revolt. we denounce all discrimination, including discrimination based on sex or religion, and we stress issues related to labour law, social and trade union rights, freedom of conscience, freedom of expression and opinion, women's rights, the necessary reform of the judiciary, the abolition of the death penalty and mutilation sentences, and political rights. as events in bahrain developed and in the face of the repression of the protests, and also in the face of the military intervention of the neighbouring gcc countries, we prepared, with the shadow rapporteurs, a series of oral amendments in support of the demonstrators fighting for freedom. we have stressed the legitimacy of their demands and denounced the violent reaction of the bahraini authorities and the military intervention of the gcc countries which took part in the repression, and we express our grave concern at the violent response of the authorities. we are also giving our full support to the process of democratic transition. the report also sets out long-term strategic perspectives. it discusses the potential of partnership in many areas (geopolitics, energy, education and science and regional integration). from a geopolitical point of view, iran is obviously a real threat. between iran and israel, the gulf states would inevitably be the collateral victims of a conflict. these countries expect a lot from us in trying to prevent iran from developing nuclear weapons. the gcc states, which represent a quarter of the arab league member states, play a very important role in the peace process. they are, let us remember, the originators of the arab peace initiative. the gcc is the main supplier of hydrocarbons to the european union, which is therefore highly dependent on these countries, but their oil reserves are declining and they are preparing to convert them through the development of renewable energies. we can offer our experience in this field. in the field of education and science, these countries make education one of their priorities. in the face of a shortage of universities and teachers, the establishment of american universities of great repute is being seen. unfortunately, the european union, which is committed, is far behind the united states. one example: only 8 gcc students came to europe last year under erasmus mundus. finally, in the area of regional integration, the gcc is struggling to make progress. the european union, with its experience, can provide help, advice and know-how and, finally, we call for the conclusion of a free trade agreement which has been under negotiation for more than twenty years.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i will be brief, not that the agreement with vietnam is of less interest, but mrs ticău again indicated, in the previous report on canada, what the legislative and regulatory framework was in which these air agreements between the european union and a third country took place. we are therefore in exactly the same situation, except that our agreement, which is less ambitious and simpler, is aimed at regularizing in a horizontal way, in the field of air services, the 17 bilateral agreements which previously existed between vietnam and european countries, and of course extending them to all the countries of the union. it is an agreement which does not concern the opening up of the market, since the vietnamese economy is a regulated state economy and there is obviously no question of opening up the market. the aim is therefore to bring the existing bilateral air services agreements between the european union and vietnam into line with european law, as the previous rapporteur has pointed out. one of the main features of this agreement is a designation clause referring to all carriers in the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the progress of the implementation of the agreement and will continue to monitor the progress of the implementation of the agreement. the agreement also includes security arrangements to ensure that such arrangements are uniform and equal, and a clause against anti-competitive practices. difficulties have been encountered, which explains why this agreement took a certain amount of time several years. as regards the inclusion of a clause on fuel taxation, it was not accepted by vietnam. this clause, which is usually included in airline agreements negotiated by the commission, allows an airline from a third country to be taxed when it operates a flight within the european union. it should be stressed, of course, that vietnam does not and will not operate any internal flights within the european union at the moment. the vietnamese government has also promised to enter into bilateral negotiations with the member states if necessary or in the event of a domestic flight being planned by the vietnamese national airline. in conclusion, ratification of the agreement obviously brings more benefits than not having an agreement, even though it does not contain any provision on fuel taxation. it will, on the contrary, make it possible to enforce the principles of union law bilaterally and for all the member states of the union. the european parliament is therefore naturally invited to ratify this agreement.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 'open skies' agreement between europe and the united states is a step forward, but it is only a step that puts europe in a dilemma. the committee on transport and the commission have themselves stressed this. either we accept an agreement that disadvantages european companies, or we suspend the agreement and risk losing the gains made since 2008. let me draw a parallel with the licences of private and professional pilots - a text which will be discussed before the summer - because pilots, of whom i am one, are faced with a dilemma. the european aviation safety agency, wishing to harmonise licences across europe, will do so to the detriment of the 80 to 90 000 general aviation pilots directly concerned - some of whom hold only one us licence - and to the detriment - and this is important - of the businesses and jobs linked to this activity. i would like to draw your attention to this project which has no security foundation. there are 31 times fewer accidents among u.s. licensees. the objectives of the text of the basic regulation 216/2008 make it possible to provide for the recognition and equivalence of licences for which it is not considered appropriate to wait for hypothetical agreements postponed to 2014. so i am proposing a very open skies agreement and i am even inviting you to come with me when i fly myself to parliament from time to time to show you that an american pilot licence is perfectly safe.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i will be extremely brief because, as commissioner kallas has pointed out, the agreement with vietnam is a simple agreement, approved by all, which has not been the subject of difficulties for our own report and which has the great merit of opening up the vietnamese market to all european actors with a reciprocity towards a country which operates on a different economic model. i believe that this agreement must also be considered important from a geographical point of view, since it opens the way to the east and to the countries of south-east asia. i think there is no other comment to be made than that we are glad that we have been able to conclude this agreement, which will open up traffic between vietnam and europe a little better.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs balzani, for the consistency of her motion for a resolution on the general guidelines for the 2012 budget. this proposal sends a clear political message. it is because it is fully aware of the budgetary constraints on the european union that parliament is calling, as of today, for the adoption of a 2012 budget commensurate with the current political, economic and social challenges. at a time when the member states are discussing only the implementation of additional austerity measures, parliament, at least on this side of the house, intends to show its commitment to the thousands of workers who are marching in the streets of brussels today to express their rejection of these economically questionable and socially unfair measures, the corollary of which is only an increase in structural unemployment in europe. the alignment of the community budget, for the first time in a clear way in 2012, with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy makes it possible to put employment and growth back at the heart of community policies, which, i would remind you, are our priorities since the eu 2020 strategy sets an employment rate target for the working population of 75%. but we won't deceive! this budgetary procedure will be long and difficult, contrary to what mr lewandowski said in the french press, anticipating the position of the members of parliament. the member states have already expressed their short-term view of the budget, which advocates strictness, calling for the limitation of their contribution to the financing of community action. they see the european union and its action not as a vehicle of added value or an ally for ambitious policies, but as an additional cost. do not be mistaken! the 2012 budgetary procedure will again provide an overview of the work in progress for the definition of the future multiannual financial framework. however, with a budget representing only 2% of the eu's public expenditure, it will be difficult to develop ambitious policies in all sectors. there are already heated debates about who will be stripped of the cap and cohesion policy. it is to set citizens in opposition when we would be honoured to bring them into synergy. that is why i repeat, commissioner, the importance of your communication on the implementation of own resources.
mr president, i would like to make a brief comment on the basis of article 15 (6) (d) of the treaty on european union, which provides that the president of the european council is to present a report to the european parliament following each meeting of the european council. on 11 march an extraordinary european council was held. i regret that such a report has not been presented.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, in particular mr howitt, mrs brepoels, mrs brantner and mrs jäätteenmäki, with whom we have prepared these amendments, which make it possible to have a report which fully reflects the events taking place in the gulf and which expresses very clearly a position of our parliament on the repression in that region. the first amendment, 16th visa new, is as follows:" - having regard to the statements by the high representative of 10, 15 and 17 march, and the council conclusions of 21 march on bahrain, and stressing in this context its full support for freedom of expression and the right of citizens to demonstrate peacefully",this is the first amendment and it is, of course, the english version, which has been distributed, which is authentic.
the second amendment, recital a, reads as follows: 'that the current eu-gcc relations require constant adaptations and updates in the light of important recent developments, which are rapidly changing, and that the pursuit of human rights and democracy must be at the heart of these adaptations.'
new recital a bis:"a bis. having regard to the legitimate democratic aspirations expressed by protesters in several gcc states; whereas the violent reaction of the authorities to the protests in bahrain has led to many deaths, injuries and imprisonments, and soldiers from saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and kuwait have arrived in bahrain under the gcc banner to participate in the repression of the protesters,
in paragraph 7, after the first subparagraph, the first indent shall read: '- to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of speech and assembly, and the right to demonstrate peacefully and to listen to and take into account the legitimate demands of demonstrators and to ensure their safety,';
a new paragraph 7a:"7a. calls on all gcc member states to recognize a permanent popular movement for political reforms throughout the region, and calls for full engagement, with emerging civil society groups, to promote a peaceful democratic transition process within their own countries, with partners in the region, and the full support of the european union;"
new paragraph 7b:"7b. expresses its deep concern at the violent response of the bahraini authorities and the use of force against demonstrators, as well as the participation in the repression of demonstrators by foreign troops, under the banner of the gcc; considers that this is in stark contrast to the gcc's support for the protection of citizens calling for peace and democracy in libya; calls for an immediate end to the violence against peaceful protesters and for political dialogue that can lead to much-needed political reforms in the country;';
a new paragraph 18a:"18a. takes note of the gcc statement of 7 march in abu dhabi, calling on the un security council to take the necessary measures to protect civilians in libya, including the imposition of a no-fly zone, which contributed to the decision of the arab league and then the un security council to decide in favour of such a zone;"
mr president, i hope i am not mistaken, but i have the impression that you should have put the original text to the vote on article 12 (2) (e), which we did not do.
in writing. parliament has just extended the generalised system of preferences (gsp) for developing countries for the period from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2013. the general review of the gsp is due to take place this year and will have to take into account the concerns expressed in the committee on international trade. we are asking for more transparency and genuine collaboration in the negotiations for the allocation of the gsp to a country. commissioner de gucht has committed himself to closely involving the european parliament in the decision-making process. so he'll have to keep his promises.
in writing. the european and american aviation markets account for more than half of the world's air traffic. in the current climate warming context, the european union and the united states therefore needed to work together to reduce the environmental impact of international aviation. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement, in which both parties commit to environmental and social standards, including reducing noise emissions, reducing the impact of air transport emissions on air quality and developing sustainable alternative fuels. the two parties also commit themselves, for the first time, to guaranteeing the social rights of airline employees.
in writing. in the field of air transport, only bilateral agreements existed between eu member states and canada. however, as the european union and canada have long-standing economic and political relations, it became necessary for both parties to conclude an agreement on air transport. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides for the progressive introduction of traffic rights, the possibility of investment and cooperation in several areas (safety, including the establishment of a single control system, social issues, consumer interests and the environment). the agreement also provides for the abolition of all existing restrictions on routes, prices and numbers of flights between the european union and canada. this is therefore an ambitious and essential agreement.
in writing. until now, bilateral air transport agreements between eu member states and third countries could discriminate against certain eu carriers. the new agreement therefore provides for the inclusion of a union designation clause, which covers all carriers in the european union and will replace the traditional designation clauses referring to air carriers of the member states. the aim of the agreement is to avoid discrimination between air carriers in the european union and to prohibit anticompetitive practices. i therefore supported this agreement, which will allow any airline in the european union to operate flights between any member state and vietnam.
in writing. for some 20 years, the european union and the gulf cooperation council have been trying to negotiate a free trade agreement, negotiations which have still not been concluded to date. but in 20 years the context has changed. the gulf cooperation council member states have become the economic engine of the entire middle east-north africa region and are the leading investor in the countries of the european union's southern mediterranean neighbourhood. the potential for cooperation between the european union and the gulf cooperation council member countries therefore goes beyond the commercial framework to areas such as science and education. that is why i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which is intended to be a call from the european parliament for the formulation of a more ambitious policy towards the gulf cooperation council.
in writing. the persian gulf region is of strategic importance to the european union for many reasons, in particular with regard to energy supply. the european union wishes to strengthen its links with the gulf cooperation council, an organisation of the six richest countries in the region, and the conclusion of a free trade agreement is a central element in this process. i voted in favour of this report, which lays the foundations for future cooperation between the union and the gcc. the project of my colleague dominique baudis, which covered all the issues raised by such a partnership, such as the rights of minorities, women's rights, freedom of conscience and expression, but also the settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict, or strategic partnership areas such as research, education and fossil and renewable energy, was the subject of a fairly broad consensus among the political groups. however, following recent events in bahrain, the relevance of the report has been questioned. thanks to the good will of everyone, excellent oral compromise amendments were negotiated to bring the report up to date, thus avoiding the need to call into question months of work.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution which sends a strong message to our partners in the arabian peninsula. in a context of extreme economic, social and geopolitical tension, it was essential that our assembly reiterate its willingness to revise our cooperation agreements in the light of events in the arab world. it is not a question of renouncing historical ties, but of adapting them to the realities on the ground and to the needs of the peoples, making respect for the values defended by the union a precondition for any deepening of economic and political ties, and making dialogue with civil society a central and indispensable element of the partnership. while progress and reforms are welcome, significant efforts still remain to be made to permanently anchor these countries on the path to democracy, respect for human rights and the guarantee of public freedoms. part of europe's destiny is at stake in the near and middle east, and the whole point of the union's association agreements with these countries is to find a middle way, a fair one for all, between pursuing economic and trade relations and promoting its fundamental values.
in writing. as the executive board of the european central bank is to be filled with a new member, i voted in favour of the appointment of the belgian candidate, peter praet, whose authority and professional experience in the monetary and banking field are recognised.
in writing. the european banking authority, established on 1 january 2011 by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010, is responsible for ensuring the stability of the financial system, the transparency of financial products and markets, and the protection of savers and investors. the european banking authority has elected adam farkas, an economist from the central bank of hungary, as its executive director. the european parliament had to confirm this election for it to be effective. i voted in favour of mr farkas's appointment.
in writing. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, established on 1 january 2010 by the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010, has the task of promoting supervisory convergence and providing advice to the institutions of the european union in the fields of insurance, reinsurance and occupational pension regulation and supervision. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has chosen carlos montalvo, a spaniard who worked as secretary-general for the predecessor body of the new authority, to be its first executive director. the european parliament had to confirm this choice for it to be valid. i voted in favour of mr montalvo's appointment.
in writing. the european securities and markets authority, established on 1 january 2011 by the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2011, is intended to contribute to maintaining the stability of the financial system in the european union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and proper functioning of financial markets and to strengthen investor protection. the european securities and markets authority has appointed verena ross, a former economist at the bank of england, as its first executive director. the european parliament had to validate this appointment in order for it to be effective. i voted for the appointment of mrs ross.
in writing. in the current context of financial, economic and social crisis, the european institutions must follow the example of the member states by adopting austerity measures. that is why i voted in favour of this report which provides for a strict 2012 budget for the european parliament. however, this budget should enable it to achieve the objectives set by the european union but with the minimum possible resources. this budget will be drawn up in the light of the europe 2020 strategy, which should help europe emerge stronger from the crisis.
in writing. we are at the beginning of a difficult negotiation with the member states on the 2012 budget, with the debate on the post-2013 financial perspective already under way. in this period of crisis, we will have to reiterate our expectations of european policies throughout the budgetary procedure. the european parliament, in its resolution on the general guidelines for the 2012 budget, recalled its vision of the union as a vehicle for added value and an ally of the states in pursuing ambitious policies. i also voted in favour of the resolution proposed by mr balzani because of its coherence and the clear political message it conveys, calling for the adoption of a budget consistent with the employment and growth objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. finally, i took the opportunity of the debate in plenary to ask the budget commissioner about the urgency of his communication on the implementation of new own resources, which i hope will help to move this debate forward.
in writing. the european union, the symbol of human rights throughout the world, must ensure fair treatment of third-country nationals residing in its territory and establish an integration policy towards them. the approximation of the national laws of the member states on the conditions of admission and residence of such nationals was therefore necessary. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which should help to simplify admission procedures, to combat unfair competition to the detriment of european workers and to introduce better controls to combat illegal immigration and undeclared work.
in writing. the creation of a single permit for third-country nationals wishing to reside and work in a member state has been discussed for years! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of discrimination, such as the right to strike, the right to free movement of workers, the right to social security, the right to health and the right to social security. despite the improvements since december, there is still concern about social inequality among thirdcountry nationals. the european right, therefore, by voting in favour of the proposal for a 'single permit' for third country nationals, is voting in favour of an immigration policy which is both discriminatory and restrictive. the text as it stands does not allow equal treatment of all workers with regard to working conditions and social rights. it creates different categories of workers, depending on nationality, depending on the type of contract, which is simply unacceptable! we cannot compromise on equal treatment! yes to a common immigration policy; yes to a genuine single european permit; yes to a common european asylum system; yes to a common european asylum system; yes to a common european asylum system; yes to a common european asylum system; yes to a common european asylum system; yes to a common european asylum system. but we do not want a policy which is restrictive and therefore discriminatory!
in writing. the european parliament voted in principle to create a single work and residence permit for third-country nationals in a member state. this procedure provides for a set of common rights for these workers, in particular concerning working conditions (working time, holidays, etc.). the text also lays down the principle of reimbursement of pension contributions already paid by workers leaving the european union, since they will be unable to claim their pension rights in any event. this text is problematic, however, because it reinforces the principle of the 'country of origin' for certain categories of workers, a principle which had been opposed by the european left at the time of the famous bolkestein directive. this creates a kind of two-tier labour market according to the origin of the workers and is a form of social dumping. this is a contradiction: do we really want to protect the european social model and should it exclude non-european workers, or should it have a universalist aim and stop discriminating against workers by giving them different rights? the text does not yet answer this fundamental question, and that is why i have decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. the creation of a single permit for third-country nationals wishing to reside and work in a member state has been discussed for years! it was a laudable initiative, but the text as it stands contradicts the stated objectives: it is both discriminatory, since the basic principle of equal treatment for all is not respected, and restrictive, since several categories of workers are excluded. in december, meps rejected the text for the first time. despite the improvements achieved, there is still concern about inequality amongst third country nationals. the text as it stands does not allow equal treatment of all workers with regard to working conditions and social rights. it creates different categories of workers, depending on nationality, depending on the type of contract, which is not acceptable. we therefore voted against the final proposal. we remain in favour of a genuine single european licence, but we do not want a policy which is restrictive and therefore discriminatory.
in writing. after a first rejection in plenary, the european right went astray in procedural maneuvers and then today contributed shamefully to the recognition of a two-speed labour market according to the origin of workers, creating social dumping and thus a downward pressure on the level of protection of european workers, which is unacceptable. i therefore voted against this report, which is nothing but dynamite against the european social model. this text introduces exclusions and unequal treatment in terms of social security, pensions and access to employment and training for legal immigrants, which is contrary to my values.
in writing. for the past 20 years or so, the european union has been completing the internal market envisaged by its founding fathers. the establishment of the european economic area has led to the ever-increasing integration of a vast area of economic exchange. however, this area still suffers from the unequal treatment of workers from a member state and those from a third country. this difference in treatment is a double problem. it is both a disadvantage for migrant workers, who do not benefit from the high standards which are usually imposed by the social rights of the member states, and a disadvantage for european workers, who, faced with unfair competition, suffer from social dumping. the "single permit" resolution by véronique mathieu specifically targets the rights of migrant workers. it simplifies procedures by establishing a single residence and work permit and confers on foreign workers rights and duties comparable to those of european workers. the full completion of the internal market is a powerful lever for europe to return to growth, which is why i supported this text.
in writing. the adoption of this report is a significant step forward in protecting the rights of third-country workers in the eu by granting them a single residence and work permit. this illustrates the union's desire to increase its attractiveness on the international scene by facilitating access to the european labour market on conditions. i welcome the fact that the procedure for obtaining such a permit is being simplified by means of a one-stop shop, which will make it easier for foreign workers to get around. the creation of a single working document represents a significant step forward in the control and regulation of migration flows by member states and facilitates the control of legal immigration. in this text, our assembly affirms that a controlled and supervised immigration of workers is beneficial to all. the establishment of a common legislative framework for european and foreign workers protects our citizens against any form of unfair competition on the labour market. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the idea of a europe which protects its workers, while remaining faithful to the principle of free movement of persons, which is a foundation of the european construction.
in writing. in the face of recent digital developments, the european union needs to update consumer rights. the draft directive aims to provide better protection for consumers in all the member states of the european union, in particular by allowing them to benefit from a sufficient right of withdrawal. every citizen, every consumer must be guaranteed the same rights within the union. we will thus promote a satisfactory level of consumption for citizens, who will find it easier to buy in other european countries. in addition, by preserving the essential acquis of french consumer law, such as the guarantee of 'hidden vice' and the free use of all means of payment, this new directive is in my view a step forward. so i supported her.
in writing. in the face of a text that is more than questionable at its core, i am pleased that some major advances have been made by the european left. it was an aberration to impose on member states legislation which went against the rights of consumers and to oblige them to abolish certain of their national laws which were considered to be too protective in relation to the directive. however, i was in favour of postponing the final vote in order to be able to strengthen consumer protection against certain abusive practices, the level of protection of which is still insufficient. in any case, i will not vote for a text which flouts the most basic consumer rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the content of the report on consumer rights. the text renews four existing directives into one, with a view to simplifying and improving consumer protection rules. the added value of the european union must be achieved through a clear benefit for consumers, in particular by facilitating cross-border online transactions. the proposal for a directive thus seeks to address the problems raised by the different consumer protection rules in different countries. in concrete terms, the text proposes a standard withdrawal form for distance contracts and off-premises contracts. the duration of the right of withdrawal is harmonised to 14 days. the rules contained in the text would also strengthen consumer rights in relation to information and delivery.
in writing. while the mandate of the european network and information security agency will end on 13 march 2012, the european union still needs to make efforts in this area. it was therefore necessary to adopt an extension of the agency's mandate in order to ensure coherence and continuity in the field of network and information security. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. on 11 march, japan was struck by one of the most devastating earthquakes in its history, causing thousands of deaths and missing persons, considerable material damage and a nuclear accident of extreme gravity, affecting the fukushima nuclear power plant, which in turn poses a new threat. the european union must therefore act to provide japan and the affected regions with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses the solidarity of the european people with japan. parliament stressed the courage of the japanese in this crisis, the worst since the second world war, which had hit their country so hard. the european friends of japan immediately responded by coming to the aid of the affected populations. but the archipelago is facing a nuclear problem of extreme concern, which requires our full attention. europe must give all its help and expertise to the japanese authorities in order to avoid a catastrophe whose devastating consequences we are unfortunately experiencing.
in writing. japan is now overwhelmed. in addition to natural disasters, there are repeated nuclear accidents. this is the worst crisis japan has experienced since world war ii. the victims number in the tens of thousands, and the damage to property is considerable and still difficult to quantify. the european union must respond to the crisis. japan urgently needs help. we urge the commission to promote and coordinate the european solidarity effort. european action must be clear, fast and effective in the short and long term. the european union is rightly concerned about the fukushima nuclear power plant. the european commission should respond by calling for a rapid series of crash tests on all european nuclear infrastructures, conducted in an independent and transparent manner. finally, we cannot afford to fail to reflect collectively on our energy policies. on the question of clean energy, renewable energy, the energy efficiency criterion, and on european research, which often amounts to well below 3% of gdp, we expect europe to take ambitious and decisive decisions.
in writing. for the past two weeks, japan has been the scene of one of the worst nuclear accidents in history. it is too early to assess the scale of the disaster, but it is clear that nowhere on earth has civilian nuclear power been so badly damaged as chernobyl. the situation in fukushima has caused us all to be both fearful and compassionate, and also to question our own nuclear power generation system. i think it is particularly scandalous, however, that the legitimate sensitivity of this crisis should be used to pursue partisan objectives. it is not a question of banning the nuclear debate. as with any question, and especially with those of such strategic importance, democratic debate must allow wise solutions to be adopted. because i do not believe that emotion is a good adviser, i supported the european parliament's emergency resolution. it sends a strong message of support to our japanese friends without any internal considerations which would not respect the necessary and indispensable period of decency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution expressing the solidarity of the members of the european parliament with the japanese people and their government, following the momentous events of the past few days. we hope that the union and the member states will provide japan and the disaster areas with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support.
in writing. the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan on 11 march caused several thousand people to disappear - the current death toll exceeds 27,000 - and caused considerable material damage. under these conditions, japan now faces a nuclear accident of extreme gravity. while japan has not experienced such a crisis since the second world war, i support the european parliament's resolution on the situation in that country. i therefore ask the eu to provide all possible humanitarian, technical and financial assistance - medical equipment, mattresses, tents, food, experts and specialists in radioactivity and nuclear energy... i would also like to express my full solidarity with the japanese people. i commend his mobilization, his courage and his determination in the face of such a catastrophe. in addition, in view of the seriousness of the situation at the fukushima plant, i call on the japanese government to be as transparent as possible and on the eu member states to organise a broad public debate on energy, not just on the nuclear issue.
in writing. my thoughts are with the families of the victims, the injured and all the japanese people who have been affected by this cataclysm. the courage and dignity of the japanese people are admirable, and i welcome the fact that this resolution expresses the support and solidarity of our assembly. it is the biggest disaster japan has experienced since world war ii, and the fukushima disaster has shocked us all and forced us to rethink our approach to nuclear power. the question is not, as some would like to make it appear by a political recovery manoeuvre, whether to continue the production of nuclear energy, an energy of the future which contributes to the decarbonisation of our economy and guarantees our energy independence. the fukushima disaster requires us above all to raise our standards of nuclear safety. i support the epp group's demands for common safety standards and increased vigilance in and around nuclear power stations. the expertise and performance of the french nuclear industry should be used as an example in this respect. the responsibility now lies with the european union, which must take strong measures to ensure that such a nuclear disaster never happens in europe.
mr president, i would like to say two things. firstly, the committee on budgets has done its job and has put the draft estimated state of the parliament's budget for 2012 in a position to be examined, debated and voted on by your parliament, by the plenary, in accordance with our procedures and in accordance with what we did last year. there are different opinions among the groups. they'll be able to speak. secondly, i do not want to let mrs andreasen, who is well acquainted with the matter, say that as chairman of the committee on budgets and member of the house of history's steering committee i would be in a personal conflict of interest. i am not here in a personal capacity, i am here as chairman of the committee on budgets, appointed by the committee on budgets to represent it in this body, in the same way as the chairwoman for cultural affairs represents the committee on cultural affairs in this body. of course, if anyone were to dispute this, i would be prepared to make this mandate available again, but when you use words like 'conflict of interest', mr president, you still have to be careful not to mix the genders. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a first step will be taken this week in the revision of the procedures directive. our assembly will have to decide on wednesday on the commission's revised proposal on common procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status. this opinion of the european parliament is essential in the dialogue which will continue with the council in the coming months on a matter which, i believe, is the cornerstone of the asylum package and on which - i regret it - the council is still holding discussions. it will serve as a basis for a new version of this directive which, i hope, will enable us to meet the 2012 deadline as the horizon to be reached for the implementation of common rules on asylum. the vote on the report comes as unhcr last week published a study of the 44 industrialised countries. it shows how, contrary to popular belief, the number of asylum seekers in rich countries has decreased by 40% in ten years and by 5% in one year. such information raises the question of what the root causes of this observation are. is it the effects of the decline in departure factors or the tightening of immigration controls in some countries? what the report also shows is that developing countries now bear the largest share of the responsibility for asylum, although they do not necessarily have all the means to do so. europe must therefore take its fair share and set clear rules for this. this brings me back to the issue of asylum procedures, to recall the main issues. the current directive, often described as a catalogue of national worst practices, has two major drawbacks. it does not sufficiently protect the rights of applicants, while at the same time creating very wide disparities in treatment in the member states. there are still major differences between the different asylum systems in europe. to take just two examples, the percentage of positive first instance decisions in the member states ranged from 65% in 2009 to less than 1%. the time limit for appealing against a negative decision at first instance varied from two to thirty days. there are therefore differences between member states, whether in the grounds for accelerated procedures, access to individual interviews or effective redress. such disparities are incompatible with a common asylum system which should offer equivalent protection throughout the union. they are also contrary to one of the reasons for the establishment of the dublin ii regulation, which presupposes that the asylum systems of the member states are equivalent. legislative harmonisation is therefore essential to ensure fair, accessible, secure and efficient procedures. because i think they are incorrect, i would like to respond once again to some of the assertions made by the critics of this text, who say that in the end this directive is almost reduced to cost increases and the development of abuses. these procedural changes may, however, entail costs in the short term. but a little lucidity would make it clear that it is rather the misuse of procedures which are inadequate in terms of quality and safety that is currently costing member states dearly. two indicators will serve as validation: the very large number of appeals and the length of the procedures thus generated. i would also like to see a break with the manichean view of asylum, which wants to see only abuse. in a context where immigration issues are being exploited, defending asylum as a fundamental right is an obligation. and if the situation in the arab world means anything to the most reticent parliamentarians, it will mean something about the european union's responsibility to provide adequate protection for victims of persecution. i therefore support the commission's approach to improving first instance procedures, front-loading, because good decision-making at first instance will benefit victims of persecution as much as it will enable the competent authorities to take sound decisions, improve the reasoning behind negative decisions and thus reduce the risk of their being overturned by the appeal bodies, better identify cases of unfounded or abusive applications and reduce the reception costs of member states, while supporting their efforts to get the really rejected applicants to leave the territory. finally, a few words on a number of key points which will hopefully allow this report to move forward now. firstly, the right to free legal aid at first instance is, in my view, an essential guarantee for improving the quality of decisions. secondly, better consideration of vulnerable applicants, a category of people on which the current directive is completely silent. the third challenge is that of more ambitious time limits for appeals, which reinforce the right to effective appeals; greater guarantees in the case of accelerated procedures, in particular a reduction in the grounds for them or the setting of reasonable time limits. and on the concepts of safe countries, we are calling for the adoption of a common european list in codecision, as the court of justice recommended in 2008. in conclusion, the final adoption of this report should be a strong signal from parliament to the council and the commission. the red lines of parliament are, in my view, set and the cursor is set on the side of seeking an upward harmonisation of protection standards, which we must welcome, ladies and gentlemen. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, the work that has been undertaken here on this report, under the leadership of sylvie guillaume, is very important. as mrs malmström said, it is the cornerstone of the european asylum system and it is true that between the present situation and a european system there is a world. it is a gulf, a gulf into which the rights of asylum seekers and the credibility of our protection system in europe are sinking. when we have states whose rates of positive responses at first instance vary from 1% to 65%, when we have, in a state like france, for example, 75% of the protections granted to kosovars or albanians who have been granted in appeals, when we know that these appeals are not suspensive, we take a little measure of the state of the situation and we really think that the council should take action to consider that the option chosen by the european commission - and which is reinforced by the high quality of the report which was made under the leadership of sylvie guillaume - that is to say, to improve the quality of the decision at first instance, is absolutely fundamental. i believe that the states that shout the loudest are not the ones paying the most, nor are they the ones that are the most welcoming. it should be remembered that, in proportion to the population, it is cyprus, it is sweden, it is luxembourg, it is belgium. so let us also listen to those states that can tell us what the best standards are in terms of international protection for asylum seekers.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for all the speeches, or almost all of them. mrs hohlmeier has left, but i hope someone will tell her that i do not despair of convincing her that tunisian nationals do not apply for asylum in the european union and that there is therefore little reason for them to do so a second time. two small things to finish, which i think are a bit essential. i would like to emphasize that the aim is not to turn the member states against the principle of harmonization from above, but the opposite. i can understand that there is a certain amount of resistance, reluctance, but i also want them to understand that there is everything to be gained by investing in proper and effective first instance proceedings. and the reforms proposed are moving in that direction. the second essential dimension, in conclusion, is to affirm that the role of parliament is important. we are co-legislators. the european commission has repeatedly indicated that it would like us to have a very fundamental opinion on the further course of this procedure. well, on wednesday we will have the opportunity to make our priorities for real harmonized procedures in this area very clear.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the treaty of lisbon, tourism has become a community competence in its own right and we must therefore tackle this issue. this proposal for a regulation allows us to update tools which will improve the visibility and attractiveness of europe as a tourist destination of excellence. by promoting tourism, whether for leisure or business, we are helping to revive and sustain growth and to develop employment. we will thus have reliable and efficient databases at the service of public authorities and professionals in the sector, which will make it possible to adapt the tourist offer to the expectations of tourists, in a period when consumption habits have changed and evolved and when competition is becoming increasingly strong in a sector of activity attractive to the economy and creating jobs. this will provide us with precise and valuable information for our reflection and for the guidelines to be drawn up for european tourism policy. for these reasons i support this proposal. thank you.
madam president, this report is delicate and i would like to criticise its title. the use of the term "migration flow" sets the tone: a view of migrants as commodities or invaders. while the peoples of the southern shore of the mediterranean and ourselves are living through a historic moment, the fear of mass immigration is preventing the union and the member states from reviving a new dynamic. the recent democratic movements in the south have allowed us to face our contradictions. they have once again highlighted the incoherence and lack of vision of our outdated and out of date cooperation policies. it is high time for the european union to put in place a migration policy that is consistent with our values, that recognises that our world is one of mobility of people, of the movement of people. continuing to talk about migration flows is aberrant and contrary to our humanistic values. if we europeans want to be a major player in the world, we must change our approach and work towards building a fraternal union for the mediterranean, which cannot be achieved without a revision of the mobility policy, now called migration. we must live up to the expectations of the people of the south. fear of immigration can no longer drive our policies. the strengthening of border controls should no longer be the primary motivation for the establishment of cooperation agreements, as was the case with libya. we must review the conditions for any signature of agreements on the movement of persons concerning readmission agreements, in order to be consistent with respect for human rights. our actions are still in a safe approach to mobility, in contradiction with our values and our requirements to protect the population. the scandalous position of mr berlusconi and mr guéant must be forcefully denounced. what policy, madam commissioner, can we adopt to establish a genuine union for the mediterranean, fraternal with the peoples of the south, who today feel that we are looking down on them?
madam president, the group of the european united left - nordic green left will not vote for this report, which does contain some positive elements, but which are constantly contradicted by the practices of certain member states, including my own country. this report refuses to see that migration is south-south first. failure to recognize this will only worsen tensions and push a number of these countries deeper into poverty. the european union cannot accept all the misery in the world, but it is not threatened by any means. the figures are there to prove it, despite the gestures of some. the european union cannot take in all the world's poverty, but it should contribute to it in proportion to its wealth, its needs and the damage it has caused and is still causing by some of its companies, which plunder the wealth of these countries. this report is in line with the view of a europe which is a fortress, withdrawn into itself, in defiance of its own interests, particularly demographic ones. no, the european union is not learning from the revolutions in the arab countries. she's not showing solidarity. in a matter of days, tunisians have welcomed more than 100,000 libyan refugees under exemplary conditions. no, commissioner, europe's discourses are not up to the problems facing the world. they can only fuel the xenophobic policies of certain member states, and i regret that.
madam president, i do not think that we can, on the one hand, welcome the revolution in tunisia and, on the other, demand that this country implement the border guard policy as it did during the dictatorship of ben ali. i think that we must stop putting pressure on the tunisian government, which has many other issues to deal with: its own refugees - as has been said - and the conduct of its democratic transition process. so the situation is exceptional and new and perhaps it should allow us to invent appropriate solutions with respect for solidarity. mrs ludford is right, that is certainly what is most lacking in the european union. i think the job of the european commission, and of parliament, could be to declare a moratorium on the deportation of tunisians first because it is really inappropriate and unwelcome. it would also be necessary to grant exceptional admission to tunisians who have already arrived in france and italy, to guarantee access to european territory for those seeking protection and to refrain from any measure or agreement which could impede such protection, to implement the mechanism - as has been said - of the 2001 directive to all those who can avail themselves of it, and to welcome, as part of the resettlement process, refugees present at the tunisian-libyan border. and then, i believe, we must have in mind the building of cooperation relations with these future fully democratic countries so that tunisians can come to work, study and move about in a completely legal way, to establish real channels of mobility between the two shores of the mediterranean. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, at this stage of our debate i am bound to repeat or support some of the things that have been said before. but i also wanted to say, as many of my colleagues have said, that the problems we are facing, the problems facing the european union as a whole at the moment, cannot be solved by any single member state. no member state should be left alone to face the challenges it faces, which, again, i believe, are the challenges facing the european union as a whole. so i am really calling for the european union to be able to organise itself and to face up to the situation in a common, solidary way. i believe that the time has come, now, to lay the foundations for a genuine european immigration and asylum policy. there was, more than a year ago, a european pact on asylum and immigration which was adopted. i think the time has come now to decline it in a very concrete way. we have heard the commissioner. we have heard a number of recommendations that she has made. i wanted to go back and very strongly support some of his proposals. yes, we must strengthen the resources of frontex at all costs. the human, material and financial resources of the frontex agency must be strengthened, so that it can provide more substantial support for the hermes and poseidon operations. yes, additional financial resources are needed, additional funds for the member states which are faced, i would say, first of all, with the high levels of migration we are experiencing today. and that will be the financial expression of our solidarity. yes, we must establish closer cooperation relations with the states on the southern shore of the mediterranean, accompany them, of course, help them, find instruments. the commissioner was talking about - i think she went to tunisia to talk about - mobility partnerships. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, we are at the end of the speeches, so i will concentrate on two points in the form of questions. the first is that the humanitarian chaos in the mediterranean is the logical consequence of the inadequacy or even the absence of a common migration policy within the european union. and the attempt to limit itself to stopping the flow of migrants to europe is an illusion, the result of which is that third countries and the member states in southern europe are now left to bear the consequences alone. and the italian response in the form of mass expulsions is not acceptable, nor is the french position of closing the borders, which solves nothing and only avoids the real issues. my first question is: can we expect a jump start and the development of a balanced european emigration policy? my second question also concerns european solidarity, which i do not consider to be a slogan but an urgent and absolute necessity. i, for my part, urge the council to react urgently and to activate the solidarity mechanism provided for in the directive on temporary protection in the event of a mass influx, but also that the member states respond to the appeal of the unhcr in favour of the implementation of the emergency resettlement mechanism. so my second question is: can we expect any concrete action at the jha council on 11 and 12 april?
in writing. for weeks, thousands of migrants have been landing on the shores of the mediterranean, particularly in malta and lampedusa, fleeing the situation in their country where unprecedented political instability reigns. frontex has rightly launched operation hermes to support the italian authorities in the face of this massive influx of migrants to their shores. the management of this humanitarian crisis must not be left to the italian authorities alone. the control of the external borders of the european union must be a common task, because the stakes are common. this massive influx of third country nationals will lead to waves of illegal entry into many member states. it is enough to note that every day the french authorities intercept hundreds of illegal migrants who arrive directly from italy. we know that many of these asylum seekers are economic migrants who "slide" into these mixed migration flows. the european effort must also be greater. the member states must make available to frontex the means necessary for the performance of its tasks. in addition, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation with the tunisian authorities. tunisia must comply with its readmission obligations
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the parties with whom i have had the opportunity to discuss this matter. all contributions have been useful in the preparation of this report and thanks to the cooperation of all the political groups, of which i thank in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, we have today on the table a coherent text with a strong message. we are indeed at a turning point in european investment policy, at a time when we must seize the new competence conferred on us by the lisbon treaty to meet a double challenge. the first is to give european companies the tools they need to make quality and secure investments abroad, with a legal framework that provides long-term support. europe must also strengthen its position as the world's leading recipient of foreign direct investment and be able to control it in order to promote sustainable development and quality job creation. by voting for this report, the first official expression of our institution since the implementation of the lisbon treaty, parliament is taking its place as the new co-legislator on trade regulation and expressing its priorities at a time when the first negotiations on investment protection are about to be launched. this expression is essential because it is intended to convey the concerns of the citizens, whose interest in commercial matters is growing and whom we must accompany. today, in a world where conflicts are also played out at the commercial level, the protection of our companies investing abroad must be a priority. international agreements have been created to protect investors from unjustified and unjust expropriations, from disguised legislation aimed only at eliminating them from this or that market. and that first calling must be maintained. while europe is one of the most open markets in the world, a balance needs to be restored with our main partners so that european companies benefit from a level playing field. this is what this report proposes, insisting on the need to include in future agreements standards of non-discrimination, fair and equitable treatment and protection against direct and indirect expropriation. however, these standards must be defined in such a way as to avoid any misinterpretation. some companies have used the vague wording of the earlier generations of investment agreements to defend their interests beyond what was legitimate, for example by attacking new social or environmental legislation that harms their interests. before international arbitrators and without transparency or appeal, they demanded substantial compensation, considering that these laws amounted to indirect expropriations. europe, which will receive more and more investment in the future, especially from emerging countries, must guard against such deviations. this is the sense of the reforms undertaken by the united states and canada, two countries whose governments or communities have suffered several setbacks in international arbitration cases and have thoroughly revised their investment agreement model. by proposing new definitions of protection standards, the report strikes the right balance between the protection of investors' rights and the right of public authorities to regulate. this also means that specific clauses should be included in all future agreements specifying the possibility for the public authorities to legislate and regulate in the areas of state security, the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy and cultural diversity. finally, increased investor protection must be accompanied by more responsible behaviour, particularly in developing countries, whose social and environmental legislation is less restrictive. the report therefore stresses that social and environmental clauses must be incorporated into all free trade agreements signed by the union. in addition, we must move beyond blaming and shaming and incorporate into all future agreements a set of clear rules that companies will have to respect in terms of corporate social responsibility on the basis of guidelines set by the oecd. if this is really a question of drawing up the outlines of a new european investment policy, i would urge that it should be exemplary, that it should promote sustainable investment, respect for the environment and promote quality working conditions in europe and in third countries. the report must therefore, by virtue of the vote on wednesday, be a reference point for all future negotiations by the commission.
in writing. the extension of the eu's competence to foreign direct investment by the lisbon treaty finally makes it possible to envisage a genuine european policy in this area. at the stage of the development of this policy, the priority is to ensure the greatest possible security for both investments and investors. the transition from national to european competence should not, therefore, in any way affect the proper implementation of the approximately 1200 agreements in force between member states and third countries. for the same reasons of legal certainty and predictability, the eu must now develop an effective, transparent and accessible dispute settlement mechanism for all investors, including the most modest (e.g. smes). the mechanisms in the most recent bilateral trade agreements provide a good basis, but only for disputes between a state and the eu. provisions should be made for the eventuality of a dispute between the eu and a company. finally, the eu must seize this opportunity to go further: it must include in future agreements clauses facilitating the establishment of investors in these countries, but also basic provisions on social and environmental standards.
president of the european council. − mr president, president of the european commission, honourable members, within the space of 49 days, i have chaired 3 meetings of the european council and a summit of heads of state and government of the eurozone. these facts illustrate the great and urgent challenges our union is facing, both on the economic and on the diplomatic front. it also neatly illustrates that meetings of the european council are not just an event: they are part of a process. indeed, in the meeting on which i am reporting today – that of 24 and 25 march – we duly approved a significant set of economic measures that have been prepared and discussed over the last year, we stepped up our action with regard to ongoing events in libya and we initiated our response to the catastrophic events in japan. allow me to take each of those issues in turn. on economic issues, we took forward a comprehensive package of measures. under the impulse of earlier meetings, including the informal eurozone summit of 11 march, we were able to bring together almost all the strengths of this endeavour. of course, approving measures and procedures to deal with the crisis does not in itself take you immediately out of the crisis. this will require perseverance and sustained effort. i will not repeat all the decisions we took in detail. you will find them in the conclusions. however, let me summarise six key points. number one: we agreed on the treaty amendment needed to give full legal certainty to the permanent stability mechanism. in its resolution of 15 december, parliament called for a light treaty change that provides a legal basis for such a mechanism, rather than resorting to a profound amendment of the treaty. we followed that advice, and i was delighted when parliament endorsed the proposed treaty amendment by such an overwhelming majority on 23 march. i am especially glad that we were able to reassure parliament about some of the concerns that had been raised in this context. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr brok and mr gualtieri, for working so closely with me to achieve this result. number two: we reached a detailed agreement on the size, scope and mode of operation for the future stability mechanism and on improving the temporary facility. number three: we endorsed the position of the council on the six legislative proposals on budgetary and macroeconomic surveillance ahead of negotiations with parliament. i know you are working hard on this; indeed, i met your rapporteurs and will be meeting your coordinators this afternoon. all those concerned understand the need to conclude by june. number four: we started the european semester. it is an exercise in which we follow up the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, the stability and growth pact and macroeconomic surveillance. the european council in june will draw the necessary conclusions. i will personally see to it that this does not sink into the sands of a bureaucratic process. number five: we agreed that credible stress tests for the banks will take place soon. the task is double: the banks must do the test and governments must be ready to deal with the outcome of the tests. number six: we provided for a new quality of economic coordination. we call it the euro plus pact for two reasons: firstly because it is about what eurozone countries want to do more – they share one currency and wish to undertake supplementary efforts on top of existing eu commitments and arrangements; and secondly because it is also open to the others. that is why i am glad that six non-euro countries have already announced that they will join the pact. they are denmark, poland, latvia, lithuania, bulgaria and romania. it remains open for any of the four remaining member states to join later on. let me say once again that the political commitment of the euro plus pact comes on top of all the other measures in the package to improve member states’ economic performance: the stronger stability and growth pact on fiscal surveillance, the new macroeconomic surveillance and implementation of the crucial eu 2020 strategy on structural reforms to achieve economic growth. the commitments in terms of competitiveness, public finances and pensions, employment and so on must be translated into the national reform and stability programmes. they will also be evaluated annually at the highest level. i have a final remark on the economy. some people fear this work is about dismantling the welfare states and social protection. not at all. as i said to the social partners at the tripartite social summit, it is to save these fundamental aspects of the european model. we want to make sure that our economies are competitive enough to create jobs and to sustain the welfare of all our citizens and that is what our work is about. these, then, were the main elements of our global economic package to help us come out of the crisis. as i said, they are the result of a long process, not a single meeting. it was on 25 march 2010 that the european council decided to improve european economic governance, launching the task force that i had the honour to chair. one year later, we are getting new rules, new instruments and more ambitious policies. it was, and remains, an effort of all institutions, including this parliament and all the member states. it was not always easy, not always without drama, but the political will has been unflinching, our sense of direction is clear and significant results are there. not all our problems are over. they are the result of past mistakes and a lack of appropriate instruments both at the european and at the national level. but we now have every chance of dealing with them and not repeating them. i should now like to turn to the situation in libya, which was, of course, something we discussed on 24 and 25 march. we showed common determination. i know that some among you had doubts, but we worked hard to secure concrete results. two weeks previously, at an extraordinary meeting of the european council on 11 march, we had adopted a clear line on libya. without that clear european position, the subsequent actions would not have been possible. we decided that, to safeguard the safety of the civilian population, member states could examine all necessary options, provided that there is a demonstrable need, a clear legal basis and support from the region. those three conditions were quickly met. the clear need was obvious when the regime stepped up the violence against its own people. the legal base was provided when the un security council agreed the landmark resolution on libya a few days after the european council meeting. regional support was immediately forthcoming from the arab league. the actions undertaken by a coalition of european, arab and north american countries implementing the un resolution have helped protect the civilian population of libya. a massive bloodbath has been avoided. thousands of lives have been saved. this is the most important result and deserves the highest attention, more so than the decision-making process. the wood is more important than the trees. we all know that the decision to take military action was not easy. there are, quite naturally, questions and hesitations. that is perfectly normal in issues of war and peace. but any difficulties that we have experienced over that aspect of the libyan crisis should not mask for one moment the full track record of the european union. from the beginning of the crisis, the european union was at the forefront. it was the first to impose sanctions, the first to impose a travel ban on leading figures in the regime, the first to freeze libyan assets and the first to recognise the interim transitional national council as a valid interlocutor, at the request of this parliament. the union also coordinated rescue efforts for eu citizens and has provided, and continues to provide, substantial humanitarian aid. the political objectives we set on 11 march remain unchanged. gaddafi must go. we want a political transition led by the libyans themselves and based on broad-based political dialogue. we stand ready to help a new libya, both economically and in building its new institutions. we are also following the events in the rest of the region closely. knowing that the situation is different in each country, we express our utmost concern at the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain. we strongly condemn the escalation of violence and we support political and social reforms in our southern neighbourhood. we also have to change our policy, and i will be discussing this later today with several meps responsible for this region within parliament’s committee on foreign affairs. on the positive side, we noted the smooth conduct of the constitutional referendum in egypt two weeks ago. allow me to say a few words on côte d’ivoire as well. it was not on the agenda of the most recent european council, but we adopted conclusions in december and have been closely following developments there ever since. first of all, we condemn the violence, particularly violence against civilians, in the strongest possible terms. this must stop on all sides. secondly, the current situation is a clear result of the lack of respect for democracy. democracy is not only about elections, but also respect for the outcome of the elections. the international community was clear about the results of the presidential elections in côte d’ivoire last year. we must be consistent in our position. finally, on japan, turning to the accumulation of tragedies that had hit japan, we as the european council expressed our sympathy and solidarity for the japanese people and our condolences for the thousands of victims. we must not forget them, even while other aspects of the drama in japan are retaining our attention. we are ready as a union to assist in any way we can. in these tragic days, as true friends of japan, we reiterate the strategic importance of the eu-japan relationship. as we know, the effects of the events go beyond japan, and that is why the european union is drawing all the lessons fully. we are paying close attention to the consequences for the global economy and to the nuclear aspects. that is a top priority. we therefore decided that the safety of all of our nuclear plants should be urgently reviewed in the ‘stress tests’ on safety. the commission will report to the european council on the stress tests before the end of the year. it will review existing eu rules on the safety of nuclear installations and propose improvements wherever necessary. in europe, we want the highest standard for nuclear safety, because ensuring the safety of nuclear plants cannot stop at our borders. we encourage and support neighbouring countries to do similar stress tests. a worldwide review of nuclear plants would be best. mr president, honourable members, that concludes my summary of what we agreed at this, the third meeting of the european council this year. much of it paves the way for further work in this parliament, be it through legislative procedures or through parliament’s general right of scrutiny over the common foreign and security policy. i look forward to hearing your views.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the european council has given us an overview of all the decisions taken at last week's meeting. let me share with you my reading of it and, most importantly, a few words about the next steps. i think it is fair to say that very significant structural decisions have been taken for greater financial stability in the euro area and greater economic coordination. this is a real turning point for european economic governance, especially when we consider the way forward. we have finally seriously consolidated the foundations of the economic component of our economic and monetary union. i think now she'll have a more stable foundation. we now have a framework to better respond together to crises that may arise. and last but not least, in assessing the outcome of this council, it can be said that the framework respects the provisions of the treaty and follows a community approach. we all know that was not a foregone conclusion. the commission has been at the forefront of the overall response to the crisis and the vision of a europe by 2020. it has had the crucial support of this parliament, for which i would like to thank you once again. the positions taken jointly by this parliament and the commission in defence of the community approach have been heard and have played an important role in the results obtained. so our new economic architecture is now largely in place. but it is not a guarantee in itself: the political leaders will have to take the appropriate decisions on the substance. in this new framework we must implement with determination and without further delay the priorities for fiscal consolidation and the structural reforms needed for growth which have been endorsed by this european council, on the basis of the annual growth review prepared by the commission. i am confident that our determination in the weeks and months ahead will be as strong, if not more so, than we have shown so far in the coherent and coordinated implementation of the various elements of our overall response to the crisis: the european semester, the euro plus pact, the new framework for strengthened economic governance, and solidary and responsible measures to maintain the financial stability of the euro area. i am not hiding from you that the commission would have liked to go further in several areas of economic governance, particularly with regard to the new financial stabilisation mechanism for the euro area. we would have liked more flexibility, for example. however, i think it is fair to say that we have succeeded in getting a mechanism embedded in the treaty, with strong intervention by the commission and follow-up by this parliament. the result achieved is important and the positive opinion on the treaty amendment, so largely approved by this house, has contributed to it. ladies and gentlemen, the new governance structures must now be put to the service of responding to the economic situation. the truth is that the business cycle remains difficult. and the ball is now in the court of the member states, who must finalise their national reform programmes and their stability or convergence programmes. the commission expects to receive concrete and ambitious proposals from each of them to move together towards the major objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, namely more jobs and more investment in education, training, research and innovation, and also to fight more courageously against poverty and social exclusion. we also await the presentation of their measures to correct persistent macroeconomic imbalances and improve competitiveness and growth for employment. once we have received these documents, we can then prepare our proposals for country-specific opinions and recommendations so that they can be adopted before the june european council, which will mark the end of the cycle of the very first european semester. i would like to stress that we all share a common responsibility here and that it is important that everyone fully embraces the europe 2020 strategy. the europe 2020 strategy remains the essential framework for european reforms for growth and jobs. and i would like to quote point 6 of the european council conclusions in this connection, which states very clearly that 'in the implementation of these policies and in order to achieve broad support for this process, close cooperation will be ensured with the european parliament and the other institutions and advisory bodies of the european union (european economic and social committee, committee of the regions); national parliaments, social partners, regions and other stakeholders will be fully involved.' i insist on this because, as you know, one of the most frequent criticisms of the lisbon strategy was precisely the lack of ownership of the reform programme for the european economy. i hope that this time we will have been able to draw on the lessons we can learn from this process and that we will really be making a serious effort, at european and national level, to promote growth for employment. on the reform of economic governance, it is now up to parliament to move towards final approval of the package of six legislative proposals and i hope that we will quickly reach an ambitious result. it's essential to have the whole governance system in place. i think we have many reasons to be satisfied with the results of the last european council, but also many reasons not to slacken our efforts, quite the contrary, because the economic situation remains difficult and uncertain, particularly with regard to the social aspects which concern us all very much. in the coming weeks the commission will also be presenting its proposals on the single market act and i am pleased that the european council has devoted so much time to the discussion on the future of the single market and also that it has stressed the crucial role of the single market in stimulating growth and employment and promoting competitiveness, highlighting in particular the importance of reducing regulatory constraints which particularly affect smes. we want to unlock the growth potential of the single market. and i would like to remind you that fiscal consolidation is not an end in itself, but a means to enable fair and sustainable growth and job creation. and since we are talking about fair growth, it is important to stress that the european council also decided on the possibility of a tax on international financial transactions. and i confirmed the commission's intention to make proposals in the area of taxation of the financial sector. in fact, we believe that everyone should contribute to the response to the crisis. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european council also discussed the situation in the southern mediterranean, particularly in libya. the president of the european council has presented a very detailed report. i would simply like to mention the conversation i had yesterday with the prime minister of tunisia. i reiterated our support for the democratic revolution and our readiness to assist the tunisian people in their quest for freedom, justice and social progress. i also mentioned, in this context, the issue of migration, which tunisia and europe must tackle together, in a constructive spirit, in a spirit of genuine partnership, because this is precisely a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity that we have proposed and that the european council has very much welcomed. another subject that occupied the european council was the crisis in japan, and in particular the nuclear aspects. i also had a rather substantial telephone conversation yesterday with the japanese prime minister, who thanked the european union for its action and to whom i again expressed our solidarity, reassuring him that we would continue to stand by them. we also discussed the nuclear issue. prime minister kan informed me of the situation in japan, of the latest developments in the field of security, and expressed his readiness to cooperate with us in future efforts in europe and the world in the field of nuclear security. it is clear that there is a growing public concern about nuclear power. this concern must be addressed and maximum nuclear safety ensured. and we need to be completely transparent. the commission will therefore carry out 'stress tests' of european nuclear power stations and the results will be made public. the european council instructed the european commission and the group of european regulators in the field of nuclear safety to define the scope and modalities of these tests, which will be carried out by independent national authorities. the commission will also review the regulatory legislative framework for the safety of nuclear installations and will propose, by the end of the year, any improvements that may be necessary. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must not disappoint the hope that we can work together for the common good of europe. this is what the commission is doing every day, with the support of this parliament, and we will continue to do so in full discharge of our new responsibilities.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last european council has moved our countries in the right direction. by increasing the capacity of the solidarity fund and deciding to make it permanent, the 27 have once again proved their commitment to the euro and the importance they attach to solidarity between the most financially strong countries and those experiencing momentary difficulties. at the same time, the decision to seal a euro pact between the euro area member countries, and even beyond, is significant of the political will of european leaders to learn the lessons of the financial crisis. the fact that we share a common currency forces us to make more coherent economic and social choices. the time has passed when each country could, without consulting its partners, set an unusual tax rate or special social rules. the reason is simple: every country must be able to benefit from the solidarity of its euro-zone partners. but this solidarity can only be accepted by our peoples if they know that everyone is making comparable efforts in the management of their public money. the euro pact is therefore an important step towards the convergence of our economies. my group strongly supports it, but i ask - and i will continue to ask - that it be implemented in the context of the community method, under the authority of the commission, mr president. you are making progress, you have done a good job, but there is still more to be done in this community method under the authority of the commission. that is how we are going to build europe. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe stands out in the world for its model of social market economy, a model which our citizens are rightly attached to and which is based on the principle of solidarity, but which is difficult to preserve in the context of globalisation. the question is how to ensure a viable future for the community by finding a balance between the socialist approach to aid, which we have seen leading to bankruptcy, and the approach of excessive liberalism, the dangers of which we have seen with the financial crisis. to do this, we need to make sure of three things. firstly, that all our countries reduce their deficits; secondly, that they adopt comparable fiscal, tax and social rules; and thirdly, that they invest together in innovation to boost our growth, which is clearly insufficient to date. we can only preserve and strengthen our model if we invest in the sectors of the future: green energy, nanotechnology, biotechnology, etc. given our limited financial room for manoeuvre, the best way to meet the challenge of growth and achieve economies of scale is to pool our skills and capital. without massive investment in innovation, without a real european plan, we will be deprived of the ability to compete with our competitors. ladies and gentlemen, while our heads of state and government were meeting ten days ago, the whole world was still concerned about the fukushima plant and the libyan insurgents were waiting for a strong european move. on both these issues, our countries and the european union have acted responsibly. we have offered japan our nuclear know-how in a situation which is extremely difficult and worrisome for japan and for the international community as a whole. there will certainly be a before and after fukushima. my group hopes that the post-fukushima period, even though we are unfortunately not there yet, will be a period of reflection and action to ensure, on the one hand, a significant strengthening of nuclear safety rules and, on the other hand, an increase in our efforts in the field of green energy. i agree with your approach, mr president, on the ivory coast. finally, on the mediterranean, i welcome the european council's repeated call for the withdrawal of colonel gaddafi, which will open a new page in the history of that country. i hope that all our countries will unite around a neighbourhood policy as ambitious and successful in the south as they were able to do in the east in the 1990s. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit, mr van rompuy, that martin schulz quoted a little german song to you. in french, it's called "tout est très bien, madame la marquise, il n'y a pas de problème". i have to admit, i'm surprised at the way things are presented here. let's not be fooled! as much as we love to listen to you, we read the papers from time to time, so we know how this council went. don't tell us your stories! we know what the problems are. we're not here to waste our time. i would like to say something to you and mr barroso. you always talk about stability, growth, jobs, competitiveness. that's right! but you know how it happens in the citizens? this is called and they understand it as "inequality, feeling of injustice, precariousness". that's the translation. and if the european union does not change, does not try to respond to this sense of injustice, this sense of inequality or this reality of inequality, the reality of precariousness, well people understand "competitiveness" as "it's going to fall on our backs". and that's where we have a real problem, because the bank bailouts, which are, i say, necessary, mean to the citizens, "everything is fine for the banks". look at the profits of the banks! look at the top salaries! people say, "but we are completely crazy! we spend money and then it is the citizens and national budgets that have to be there to increase inequality". all the statistics show us, in recent years, that inequality is increasing. if we do not respond to this problem, the citizens will turn their backs and we can see the wave of anti-european right-wing extremism rising all over europe. there's a reason for this wave: it's because we're unable to respond to this sense of inequality, injustice and precariousness. so until we answer that, we're not going to get there. and guy verhofstadt spoke about it with regard to eurobonds, what we have to tell the citizens and what we have to mobilize is a defense fund, yes, but if we do not have an investment fund, if we do not demonstrate that, precisely, we want to restart the machine and here, we need eurobonds not only for defense, but also for investment well, if we do not go in this direction, the citizens do not understand anything and do not understand this policy. and then we must say something: as regards inequality, why is it not possible today to take certain social measures in europe which speak to the citizens? for example, to decide on a minimum wage for the whole of europe, not at the same level, but to launch the idea of a minimum wage. it is still incredible that in a country like germany, where we talk about economic rebalancing, well, this problem is not discussed, it is not discussed. it is incredible that germany, one of the few countries making the most profit in europe today, is unable to introduce a minimum wage for its citizens. it is something that must be included in the economic and social governance of europe. so, about libya, martin schulz was right, it is still dramatic! we have a country like germany which is hiding, and then other countries which have tried to respond, and here i agree, but what i would like, when we are now discussing a neighbourhood policy, is that we take stock of the stupidities that have been done before in the neighbourhood policy. what was our relationship with mr. gaddafi before the bombing? what were the relations of the european countries with mr gaddafi, with mr ben ali, with mr mubarak? finally, let us assess what these human rights clauses meant to us in the association agreements. i didn't! i didn't say anything. if we don't do this evaluation, let's stop lying to each other. has the european council had five minutes to reflect on what has not been done before in the mediterranean policy? have you thought about that? i haven't read anything in the papers, i haven't heard anything you've said about it. if only the european council could have a little self-criticism about what has not been done before! and then now, on japan. the problem is that the greatest nuclear security is to get out of nuclear. there is no zero risk in nuclear. it will not happen overnight, but if we do not get out of nuclear, there will be no security. and the problem is not a stress test or an accident. the problem, and it is the french nuclear safety chairman, mr lacoste, who has said it - and it is still incredible that, until now, we have never studied this - is the accumulation of the possibilities of accidents. and this is japan. it's not an accident, it's the cumulative of four, five accidents, plus human error, that created this situation. it is mathematically impossible to guarantee that security. until the europeans say... we will not get out of here overnight, but if we do not get out of nuclear, let's stop talking about nuclear safety. there is no such thing as zero safety in nuclear power.
mr president, you have given us a positive picture of these discussions. there are positive elements, i will not go back on that. i have a concern that goes beyond the technical detail and what you have told us. the north-south divide is now taking root in the european union. we hear -- as we did a moment ago -- people claiming that some are right and others are wrong, that some are good and others are evil, and who seem to forget the interdependence. this is serious. and in the refusal to deal with the banking issue, which guy verhofstadt mentioned, i believe there is, for the most part, a refusal on the part of a number of northern countries, which are giving the southern countries many lessons, to see their own responsibilities. i therefore believe that if there is a task for you, mr president of the european council, and for you too, mr barroso, it is to avoid at all costs that this fracture should be prolonged and consolidated. we need solutions that are acceptable to everyone. we need to hold everyone accountable. the european council is extremely narrow-minded. this whole discussion is being made as if the euro had no global purpose. there is nothing about the external representation of the euro area at the imf. france is currently chairing the g20, wants to push forward the idea of global monetary reform and there is no proposal that, like the eurobonds that we are trying to push, would make the euro a truly global currency.
mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, madam president, the outcome of the european council on economic and monetary union is impressive. that's good. but let us understand that this will pose a new and formidable problem, namely the political acceptance of the decisions thus taken, at two levels. first level: between the member states themselves. from the outset, this procedure of the euro pact was based on a purely intergovernmental agreement, initiated by one member state, the largest. once is good. but if the political path is the same for several years in a row, we risk heading towards very high national tensions. already the german chancellor has been booed in the streets of athens and dublin. it is therefore necessary to gradually transform this intergovernmental procedure into a genuinely european procedure, not yet community but european. that is the meaning of the amendments adopted by parliament, and president juncker and you, mr van rompuy, should be congratulated and thanked for adopting them. second level: acceptance by public opinion in each member state. how can the parties which are now in opposition in our countries feel bound by political guidelines on which they have never been consulted? let us look at what happened yesterday in the irish elections, let us look at the electoral debate today in portugal. the only way to give these recommendations a form of political legitimacy is to ensure that national parliaments are involved, from day one, throughout the european semester procedure, whereas the council conclusions only mention parliaments in passing, in the same category as the regions, the social partners or ngos. the stakes are incomparably higher. this is a new dimension of european democracy which the decisions taken invite us to explore. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after this crisis, in the global competition, what is the european union's best weapon? you have defined it yourselves: the strategy for the european union 2020. but when i look at what you are doing in terms of economic governance, i have the impression that there is an absolute contradiction. because if you look at the stability pact, economic governance, you are moving from a strategy of coordination to a strategy of surveillance, which translates into the transformation of a washington consensus into a brussels consensus. when you talk about structural reforms, you talk about lower wages, higher retirement ages. i'm going to talk about the real structural reforms we need. it's public investment, first of all in education. do you know that during the entire period of the lisbon strategy, half of the member states have reduced the budget they have devoted to education? did you punish them for that? do you know that the european union will never implement this 2020 strategy if we do not pool investments for the future, if, when you evaluate public expenditure in the member states, the only expenditure you look at with a different eye, where you integrate qualitative, are the member states that would implement pension reforms by capitalisation and you ignore those that would be driven to make efforts in education? when i look at the situation in ireland today, one thing strikes me. day after day, you decide to bail out banks, and in the meantime, the irish are leaving. we do not want the european union. i would rather we rescued the irish people than their banks. and then, to save the banks, you invented stress tests. so now it seems to me that every time there's a difficulty, we put stress tests in place. these are the new theodule committees. the commission's stress test for the nuclear industry, the stress test for the banks, the stress test for the commission, perhaps tomorrow. maybe we'll offer it. but i would prefer to have a commission that takes the initiative and is where it needs to be. when i look at the opinions of the european central bank today, i have the impression that it is more concerned with what is not in its mandate, namely the level of wages, rather than with the sustainability of our banking system and its efficiency in serving the public investment we need. this european parliament has put on the table proposals which you refuse to take into account on the taxation of financial transactions or on eurobonds. it is time for you, mr president, to listen to the proposals coming from this european parliament to make the strategy you have adopted a success.
madam president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, i would like to thank the chairmen of the political groups for cancelling their meeting of the conference of presidents so that this debate, in accordance with rule 15, can take place in plenary. as regards the stability mechanism, i would like to raise the question of political control, in continuation of what alain lamassoure said, and also in particular the problem of regulating this mechanism, and who will give the budgetary discharge for this financial instrument. i would like to conclude by asking whether it is not time for the commission to give us a comprehensive report on public support for credit institutions, in particular on the overall financial flows and on sovereign debts. and finally, i would propose that the possibility of creating a european public rating agency be studied, given the major problems we have with private agencies, because the rating of a state is something very different from that of a private company.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as in the previous vote, the fictitious rapporteurs and i decided not to put the legislative resolution to the vote in this plenary so as to continue negotiations with the council, hoping that it will hear the vote of this parliament today.
in writing. once again we are condemned to vote for a ridiculous eu charity for the victims of its relocation policies. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is intolerable. i am only thinking of the polish workers who can take some comfort from this hypocritical aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on migration flows. the events that our neighbours to the south are going through today are reflected in a large-scale emigration to the european coasts. the coordination of our foreign and immigration policies is more necessary than ever. this is a genuinely european matter and it is no longer time for national egos. the mediterranean countries of the european union do not have to bear the heavy influx of illegal migrants alone, this effort must be shared by all the countries of the union.
in writing. some member states are facing massive arrivals of people from the southern mediterranean seeking protection. they cannot cope with these urgent humanitarian and immigration situations on their own. the resources of the frontex agency must be strengthened in terms of manpower, material and also financial resources to enable it to provide more substantial support for operations such as hermes and poseidon. the resolution also calls on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the eu's external policy. article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union mentions the principle of solidarity and the principle of fair burden-sharing between all member states in relation to policies for the management of border controls, asylum and immigration. in the medium and long term, we must build cooperation relations with the countries of origin of future migrants and establish mobility partnerships to enable their nationals to come to work legally, to study and to move between the two shores of the mediterranean.
in writing. i would like to offer my support to the people of lampedusa who are facing overcrowding, insecurity, supply and perhaps health problems, but who in the eyes of this parliament are after the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who are washing up on their shores. i would also like to say to the italian authorities that the boats they charter must be returning these illegals to africa and not to europe. the majority of these people come from tunisia, a country where, it seems, a great democratic adventure is taking place in which they are to take part. we cannot continue to welcome all those who feel ill in their country, because it rains... or not; because it's a dictatorship... or because it's not anymore; because it's underdeveloped, or because it's developing! the main reason for these migrants is purely economic. our development aid policies must encourage people to settle in their own countries and even be conditional on this and the return of their citizens. contrary to what the rapporteur says, there is no 'right' to emigrate. but there is an absolute right of the european people, those in charge of you in the first place, to say "stop" and to be heard.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament on 'migration flows linked to instability: scope and role of the european union's foreign policy' and i would like to stress certain elements contained in this report. nearly 24,000 tunisians have arrived on the island of lampedusa and on the italian coast since the fall of ben ali, and thousands of libyans have also fled their war-torn country since february. a european response and european solidarity are absolutely necessary in the face of this human tragedy! our report calls for a system of solidarity for the resettlement of refugees from north africa. our report calls for the application of the 'solidarity clause' between european states in relation to policies for managing border controls, asylum and immigration. our report also calls for the post-2013 budget to include a provision for emergency funds for a rapid response to immigration and asylum in europe. all these are necessary elements in a genuine european asylum policy, which we have been calling for for a long time and which must be based on the principles of coherence, responsibility, solidarity and respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because it focuses on the real causes of migration flows, namely political, social and economic instability, lack of security, political repression, human rights violations, but also climate change. the report also stresses the importance of offering countries of origin sustainable strategies within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and the european union's development policy. in doing so, he counters the myth of zero immigration by pointing out that migration cannot be stopped and that the eu needs strong but controlled immigration to compensate for its ageing population and to address other social and economic challenges.
in writing. since the amsterdam treaty, the european union has very broad powers in the area of migration control. this expertise is now being put to use to deal with the recent influx of refugees fleeing unrest in north africa, particularly in libya. the "arab spring" is a powerful symbol of freedom, but it also covers a more dramatic reality, which throws a large number of civilians seeking asylum onto the roads (in this case, maritime roads). this resolution therefore calls on the european and international institutions to take full account of the consequences of these large movements of population. i supported it because, faced with this situation, each state cannot act alone, consultation and pooling must guide its management. the new union foreign policy architecture introduced by the treaty of lisbon, and in particular the creation of the european external action service, should also allow for more effective coordination of member states' action.
in writing. this text fails to hide the truth, despite the flood of good feelings spread. the eu is concerned about the fall of dictators it supported in exchange for managing the 'migration flows' at its borders. the idea of a mass influx of refugees from these dictatorial systems did not worry him, and for good reason. it's the arrival of democracy that worries him. europe will need 230 million immigrants by 2030, the european commission itself says. the text also calls for the application of sanctions to states which do not respect the principles enshrined in free trade agreements and those advocated by the imf. the arab revolutions are fondly remembered by the tyrants from outside, who have only just been freed from the yoke of local despots. arrogant and brutal. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the provera report on 'migration flows linked to instability: scope and role of the european union's foreign policy'. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to freedom of movement. we must focus on the root causes of instability in certain parts of the world and manage migration flows effectively. a policy to manage migration flows must be effectively combined with the european policy of development cooperation, taking into account the aspects of security, regional cooperation in the countries of the south and cooperation agreements with countries of origin and transit. as regards the central role of certain third countries in this policy, i am convinced that the signing of cooperation agreements between these countries and the european union is absolutely essential in order to combat illegal immigration. in this regard, it is necessary to restore the cooperation agreement between libya and the european union which is currently suspended.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this balanced resolution which sets out ways to respond to the challenges and migratory pressures facing europe. i believe it is essential to create synergies between migration policy and the union's development aid policy. the human tragedies behind migration phenomena lie in a policy of aid to third countries, which contributes to their development and stability. this is a problem which the european neighbourhood policy must also take into account. i believe that a response at union level is urgently needed and i call on the member states and the commission to mobilise the appropriate tools and means to deal with this, in particular by strengthening the means and role of frontex. this also requires adequate assistance for the benefit of the regions and cities along the mediterranean coast which will have to cope with the humanitarian emergency that this arrival of immigrants will create, to guarantee the maintenance of order and to promote the integration of legal migrants. i believe that european solidarity must be fully manifested between the member states and with third countries.
in writing. the profound changes in europe's rural areas are all challenges to be met in terms of demography, employment, services and the environment. we need to highlight the important impact of women's presence and engagement on rural quality of life and the rural economy. women represent a great potential for the european union when it commits itself to developing and enhancing the rural economy in europe. eu financial assistance can thus contribute to improving the quality of life and work in rural areas through additional income, education, training and further education. the future of the agricultural sector depends on its ability to diversify. the potential of farm services beyond food production depends on the creativity of the actors, among whom women have already made a significant contribution. there are many possibilities for the creation of local services; the best guarantee of success for these projects is to involve women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for improvement of the situation and recognition of women working in agriculture and for the maintenance of aid to the rural world. the report stresses the need for wives of farmers who earn an income to have access to social protection, as well as temporary workers and migrant workers. this should be self-evident, not only in agricultural work, but more broadly in all selfemployed occupations, if we are to achieve real goals of equality between women and men in those sectors where women are particularly harassed. so yes, the promotion of gender equality must also be integrated into the cap and the union must bring its stated objectives and its actions into line, even if i have no illusions about the overall coherence between the union's objectives and the use of european funds, especially in the field of human rights, of which women's rights are an integral part.
in writing. the keyword of this report is responsibility. the nuclear industry must realise that it can no longer disengage itself, as it has so often done in the past, from its responsibility for the dismantling of nuclear power stations. these were precisely the commitments made during the various accession processes to the european union for plants whose safety criteria were generally insufficient. unfortunately, the funds in question were not properly used. it is therefore high time that we drew all the necessary conclusions. this is a finding which can be made for the power stations of the new member states, and it remains relevant for all the european countries which have opted for this technology.
in writing. since 2007, three nuclear power plants in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria have been decommissioned with substantial eu financial support. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. parliament also demanded that these three decommissioning programmes be the subject of a special report by the court of auditors by the end of the year to find out whether the money spent has actually led to increased security. in the face of budgetary constraints facing each country, parliament will only agree to extend its aid if eu funds have effectively improved the security of energy supply, modernised infrastructure and developed sustainable energy projects. in the wake of the nuclear disaster in japan, the eu is aware of its responsibility and cannot afford to neglect the safety of nuclear installations.
in writing. when lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria joined the european union, a plan was put in place to close and dismantle a number of old power stations that did not meet european standards. by releasing very large amounts of funds - which will amount to eur 2 848 million by the end of 2013 - it has made it possible to close all these plants and partially convert these states to renewable energy. however, a number of commitments seem not to have been respected and there are legitimate questions about the use of the funds committed. that is why i voted for this resolution by the european parliament. the commission also notes that the programme has not yet been fully implemented, although the main cause of the programme was the lack of progress in dismantling, and calls on the commission to improve the implementation of this assistance, for example by producing an annual monitoring report. to this end, it may rely on the court of auditors' ongoing audit. it should also set up a team of coordinators and experts to cover all three projects, which is curiously not yet the case.
in writing. this report deals with the decommissioning of old nuclear power stations which pose an immediate danger to the health of all europeans. he also called for the eu to take action to reduce the number of people who are affected by the floods. this parliament must clearly condemn the financing of new nuclear power stations. it does not do so, nor does it call for the necessary withdrawal from nuclear power. just days after the fukushima disaster, it is criminal blindness. i call for the immediate establishment of a european plan for nuclear disarmament. i am voting in favour, considering the financing of the decommissioning of the power stations concerned by this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help workers in the food industry (unilever) in the czech republic. i would stress, however, that the regulation of this fund must be revised very soon. to this end, i co-signed and had adopted an amendment during this vote which states that it is harmful that the regulation does not require an inquiry into the financial health, possible tax evasion or the state aid situation of multinational companies which benefit from the intervention of the egf. in a context where the european union is struggling to finance its objectives and is forced to make choices between equally important policies, the community budget cannot afford to finance the establishment and relocation strategies of large multinationals whose only intention is to increase their profits. this will have to be taken into account in the forthcoming regulations, without prejudicing the workers made redundant by compromising their access to the egf.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the czech workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. the precarious situation in which they find themselves is nothing but the consequence of the neoliberal policies of the european union which this fund endorses and accompanies. i am voting against, because the alms given to the victims of these policies is paltry compared to the profits made elsewhere.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a controversial mechanism. officially, the fund enables the european union to finance concrete actions to counter the effects of the crisis. it's just a cautery on a wooden leg. however, this mechanism is used only occasionally and in a few cases. in fact, he's funding the layoffs. today the european parliament has gone even further in hypocrisy by allocating part of this fund to unilever, which has just closed its factories in the czech republic and laid off more than 600 people, while its net profits have increased by 4.6 billion, or +26%. i therefore voted against this report which raises a more global problem than the unilever case. how can national and european public authorities, in the face of the employment crisis we are facing, continue to use public money to subsidize multinational companies that lay off employees, while making a profit, and thus privileging their shareholders over their employees?
in writing. dual-use goods are products which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as chemicals, technical construction equipment, but also software and other new technologies. it is often difficult to predict the real purpose of exported products, so it is necessary to hold exporters accountable and to oblige them to verify the real purpose of the various products they sell abroad. although several monitoring and information mechanisms already exist, we have asked for greater security in this area. that is why we voted in favour of the amendments calling for exports to be notified in advance, for stricter controls and for more transparency. this will be an additional guarantee to prevent abuses and prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
in writing. the activities of export credit agencies will have to be better supervised at european level and be carried out in a more transparent manner. these agencies will have to publish an annual activity report to check whether the supported projects comply with european environmental, social and development objectives. meps called for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies to encourage the green transition, in line with eu and national commitments to combat climate change. the european parliament voted to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. it would be abnormal for publicly subsidised export credits to be outside the scope of a number of principles (including a certain social ethics) and not in line with the guidelines of foreign policy and development aid. the transparency of the use of these funds is therefore essential. but the union's foreign policy is the reference. and the least that can be said is that it has proved, especially in recent months, to be non-existent, inconsistent, divergent, to say the least. the union itself does not respect the principles it sets: when was the last time the commission was seen to apply the social, human rights or environmental clauses it includes in its trade agreements? when has it been seen protesting against the eib financing projects outside europe which unfairly compete with european companies or are socially and environmentally questionable? the aim of this report is also to transpose into european law an arrangement negotiated at the level of the oecd, a globalist and ultra-liberal organisation, which de facto tolerates a disadvantage for european companies vis-à-vis their competitors, particularly chinese ones. we abstained from voting.
in writing. this report calls for "social and environmental impact assessments" to accompany the granting of public credit and insurance to private sector exports. it also called for the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets not to be affected by these projects. that's the minimum. i am voting against, however, because i am bitterly sorry that the committee on international trade has not tried to give itself the means to achieve social and ecological objectives worthy of the name. free competition, the fight against protectionism and the prohibition of denouncing agricultural export aid are all aberrations in this area which this text endorses.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report drawn up in the context of the various proposals to be announced by the european commission in 2011 and 2012 on combating violence against women. this is a subject which is particularly close to my heart, as well as to the association "women at the centre", which organized a conference on this subject a few weeks ago in paris. the report proposes a new comprehensive policy approach to combating gender-based violence, including the establishment of a european charter establishing a minimum level of victim support services and a european-wide criminal law instrument. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which expresses a clear position of the european parliament. we encourage the commission to combat violence against women. it is true that legal mechanisms for prevention and repression exist in all member states. however, it is also up to europe to address this issue, which is part of its tasks. it is not acceptable that women are subjected to physical and moral abuse and violence on a daily basis.
in writing. in europe, one in four women will experience physical violence in her lifetime and more than one in ten will be a victim of sexual violence involving force. in the face of such figures, action is urgent. the commission must therefore establish a new european policy framework for combating violence against women. all forms of violence against women (rape, prostitution, sexual violence, etc.) must be criminally prosecuted in all countries of the european union. each member state has a duty to provide these women with free legal aid and reception facilities to enable them to build a new and better life for themselves and their children. this recognition of violence against women as a crime at european level is absolutely necessary.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on tuesday, 5 april 2011, a report on combating violence against women. this text looks at the specific nature of violence against women and girls by men, which is one of the most widespread and pernicious obstacles to equality between women and men. today's report will help to put in place a criminal law instrument in the form of a european union directive to combat gender-based violence. it establishes a european charter, which will guarantee a minimum level of assistance including the right to free legal aid and emergency psychological services. the report also calls for the commission to establish a european observatory on violence against women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. my group is divided on the subject. i voted in favour of amendment no 19 and recital j on the word 'prostitution' because i believe that prostitution is indeed violence against women.
in writing. violence against women is a reality that tends to be forgotten: between 20 and 25% of european women have been subjected to physical violence (at least once) during their adult life. the european parliament then adopted a report on this issue last week and on the need to establish a policy framework in this area, and i welcome that. our report seeks to encourage all the member states of the european union to consider violence against women as a crime and thus to establish a criminal law instrument to combat such violence. in particular, i voted for the establishment of a mechanism to facilitate access to free legal aid and for the establishment of free emergency psychological services for victims. i also supported the amendments which recognise the 'serious problem of prostitution' and consider that 'violence against women' covers prostitution. finally, i voted to make rape and sexual violence a crime, even within a marriage or other type of intimate relationship.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because in the 21st century it is essential to ensure that rape is regarded as a crime throughout europe and that the perpetrators of such crimes are prosecuted and punished. it is unacceptable that today the victims of these heinous acts, depending on the country in which they live, do not have the same opportunities to obtain justice and reparation for the violence they have suffered. the ball is now in the court of the council and the commission, which cannot afford to miss this essential step in helping the women who are victims of this violence to make amends for their suffering.
in writing. in europe, one in four women has experienced physical violence in her adult life and more than one in ten has been the victim of sexual violence involving force. in the face of such figures, there is an urgent need to take action to combat violence against women in the european union. i therefore support the report by mrs eva-britt svensson. rape, which is still not considered a criminal offence in several member states, must be recognised as a crime in all eu countries and the perpetrators prosecuted. in order to protect migrant women and asylum seekers, i also call for a legal framework to be established guaranteeing immigrant women the right to hold an individual passport and residence permit, and for anyone who confiscates these documents to be considered "criminally responsible". i also ask that access to legal aid be facilitated to enable victims to assert their rights. i think it is essential that this aid should be free of charge, and i would have liked to have made this clear in the text.
in writing. i voted for the resolution negotiated by eva-britt svensson, swedish mep for gue-ngl and chair of the committee on women's rights. rape and all other forms of sexual violence must be recognised as crimes in all eu countries and perpetrators prosecuted. i agree with my colleague and friend eva-britt svensson that women are victims of gender-based violence, but we must not see women, including those who are victims of such violence, as mere victims. the role of institutions is to help them rebuild and build a new and better life for themselves and their children. but we also need to address the causes of this violence by starting by deconstructing the gender stereotypes that men and women are subjected to, including from an early age. the resolution also provides for a legal framework guaranteeing immigrant women the right to hold individual passports and residence permits, and for criminal liability for anyone depriving a woman of these documents. we are now awaiting the commission's proposals for strategy and action plan. we're waiting for action.
president of the commission. − a good example i can give you is that of our working relations with ukraine. i will attend the nuclear safety summit in kiev on 19 april 2011, organised by the ukrainian government, and i will be there together with the un secretary-general, ban ki-moon. in fact, we have been one of the most important donors – if not the most important – to chernobyl so that it can be fully repaired. as the european council stated in its conclusions, the priority of ensuring the safety of nuclear plants obviously cannot cease to apply at our borders. the european union will request that similar stress tests be carried out in the neighbouring countries and worldwide, at both existing and planned nuclear plants and, in this regard, full use should be made of the relevant international organisations. so, certainly, we are going to accord very high priority to nuclear safety in our relations with third countries, including some that you have mentioned.
commission. - madam elisa ferreira, i am happy to answer, although not exactly on the subject of the japanese disaster. as regards the question of finding funding, i said this morning in the debate that we, the european commission, will be presenting in the next financial perspective proposals for what we call 'eu project bonds', that is, bonds for investment in certain projects, structural projects, for example projects for european networks, including, of course, energy. i dare to think that the honourable member will support these proposals and i would also like to have the support of the various governments. so this issue is something we should be united on. it is precisely because there is a lack of resources in many of our member states due to budgetary cuts in investment that the european union must not give up on giving this dimension to investment for growth in europe. there are many areas where i think a euro invested at european level will do more than a euro invested at national level, such as energy.
mr president, first of all, a positive point, mr barroso. i am glad that you are going to adapt the european limit values to the japanese values, because it was found in regulation 297/2011 that the values proposed by the commission were far too high. i am therefore pleased and would like to see this incorporated into the rules. secondly, the import of foodstuffs from japan. there's a point. is it necessary to have contaminated food to sustain japan's economy, even if it is below standards? you must have children. i'm thinking, am i going to give them 500 becquerel milk when i can have an alternative with zero becquerel milk? and i think that perhaps the commission should say to itself: 'we are blocking food from japan, because it is likely to be contaminated, and we are going to help and support, perhaps financially or with clean food, the japanese themselves.' finally, i have a call to make to you, mr barroso, because i was called by areva, which went to japan, where its equipment was banned and stored at the airport. so it would be very important that you ask the japanese government to unlock the device, the whole system of masks, robots, etc. that are blocked at the airport.
for the greens/efa group madam president, it is obviously good news today to have a european framework in our hands which will oblige each member state to make known its strategy for roma inclusion. by the end of the year these strategies will have been assessed by the european commission, and we will therefore have to discuss them again in about a year's time. so today we are actually launching a roadmap which should enable parliamentarians, institutions and civil society to be able to be extremely vigilant at all times in the very important areas you have mentioned. i note that the commission's communication takes account of a number of remarks which we made in the parliamentary report. i am referring, for example, to the involvement of the fundamental rights agency in the evaluation of strategies. i think this agency no longer has to demonstrate its competence in this area. i am also thinking of developing cooperation with the council of europe on the training of mediators from the roma community. this is a strategic element which is crucial for the success of projects at all levels, as is the attention given to roma who are third country nationals, and the enlargement dimension, which is taken into account in this report. finally, i think that the definition of common indicators to strengthen the evaluation mechanism is very welcome. however, i would like to point out some shortcomings in this communication. i believe that there is not a strong enough and substantiated reference to the necessary participation of roma at all levels, i.e. the level of project development, project implementation and project evaluation. it is a matter of information and consultation, but the involvement of the roma community itself is crucial. the experience, because there are also good experiences which succeed in europe, proves this to be true. i think that's a weak point in communication. a second weakness of the communication is that it addresses the issue of non-discrimination in a horizontal way in each of the four sectors. but i think it is very important, it would have been very important, if there had been a specific paragraph on the fight against discrimination, against violence, for access to justice for the roma population. this anti-discrimination component, fundamental rights, access to justice is not specifically assumed as such. i think that is a weakness in the commission's text. i think we also talked about the ombudsmen, a programme launched by the council of europe. it's good that he's mentioned in this communication. we could have, you could have also mentioned the guidelines which have already been formulated by the council of europe, so that we do not have, in a way, two strategies or two types of reference for evaluating national strategies. i think that would have been a plus in this communication. finally, i believe that the commission's work is not done, that the task force must continue its work so that the member states feel the pressure on it day by day, at the level of the commission, civil society and local institutions, for the effective implementation of these guidelines.
in writing. the commission finally sets ambitious targets for roma integration in europe: ensuring that all roma children have at least primary schooling, reducing infant mortality and narrowing the gap in life expectancy. but these ambitions still have to be realised. one year after the european parliament adopted an amendment to the erdf regulation for investment in housing for marginalised people, projects are still struggling to get off the ground. it is important that the states invest and account for their actions in areas such as employment, education, health and housing for the roma population, but also that the commission shows rigorous monitoring of the use of existing european programmes. finally, the roma must seize this opportunity to take their destiny into their own hands, knowing that europe stands by them. waiting and empty speeches will only feed the far right and the withdrawal from the community. the international day of the roma will be celebrated on friday 8 april. i hope that on 8 april 2012 we can celebrate the progress made.
mr president, the creation of european political parties was a great step forward towards a better european democracy, capable of expressing the will of the citizens of the union. the report by mrs giannakou is a step in the right direction, namely to simplify and facilitate the work of european political parties and their foundations. it will alleviate the constraints on the counterpart required to obtain public financing and will broaden the possibilities for implementing these appropriations. we are particularly in favour of foundations also operating outside the territory of the union. but alongside this general movement, which encourages and extends the provisions for a strengthened european democracy, there is a measure which goes in the opposite direction, in the sense of restricting the freedom of european political parties. the regulation will now require, as one of the criteria for recognising the establishment of a european political party in a member state, that the party be represented by elected representatives of a regional assembly with legislative power. my party is a corsican party. it is a member of the european free alliance, which has been a european political party since its inception. in corsica, we have gathered 26% of the votes, obtained a large group of elected representatives in the assembly of corsica, but as france refuses to give legislative powers to the assembly of corsica, this party, even if it were to become the majority on the island, would not be counted for the benefit of the fea. this is a very unfortunate arrangement. we wanted to draw your attention to this.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues for their active and constructive participation in the work of the committee on fisheries on this report on transitional technical measures, a report which has given rise to a lively debate, given the importance of technical measures, since they determine the activity of fishermen and the sector, by setting out the means that fishermen can use to catch fish in areas specified by this regulation, with the aim of ensuring the protection of juveniles and the renewal of stocks, an objective shared by all and, in particular, by fishermen. the subject of this report is sensitive and controversial, as evidenced by the difficulties encountered by the commission since 2008 in reaching agreement with the council on the evolution of these measures, when these two institutions were the only ones concerned by the procedure. the technical measures are currently governed by an old regulation, amended by successive transitional measures, which has already been extended until 30 june 2011 following the failure to agree with the council on a new regulatory proposal formulated in 2008 by the commission, which aimed to simplify and clarify existing legislation in order to better apply the rules and take into account the regional characteristics of fisheries. today, as the new deadline looms, the context has changed profoundly. since the lisbon treaty, fisheries have been largely covered by the codecision procedure, with parliament playing an important role as a co-legislator, a role which it intends to play by bringing the views of fishermen and those of community policy-makers closer together. as a port city, i am always struck by the distance, or even the distrust, of the fisheries sector towards the cfp, whereas farmers, for example, clearly feel closer to the cap. the fishing industry is also in crisis. the discomfort is growing. the real challenge is to reconcile the economic balance of the sector, and thus the guarantee of decent incomes for fishermen, on the one hand, with the sustainability and renewal of fish stocks, on the other. finally, the end of the application of the regulation comes at the same time as the start of discussions on the reform of the common fisheries policy, which must be given an ambitious framework, attract the support of fishermen, consumers and citizens, and involve the whole sector in the scientific analyses which determine the level of quotas and thus the level of activity in the sector. this new context requires the commission to draw up a genuine proposal on the development of technical measures, which it seems to have avoided, together with the council, to date. a new proposal will have to ensure that technical measures are adapted to the realities on the ground, in consultation with the professionals in the sector. it will also have to seek consistency between the new regulation and the framework of the next cfp, particularly on the issue of regionalisation of measures, and to work towards a clear division of powers between the commission and the member states, which is an element of understanding and support for this community policy. in view of this context and these challenges, my proposal is to grant the commission's request for an extension until 31 december 2012, without substantial changes to the current technical measures, except for an addition concerning the mesh for wild boar. i am aware, however, that this proposal is a concession to the commission and that the questions and demands for change are strong among the professionals, who are disappointed by the postponement of this major project. i therefore attach to this acceptance a double request, that of assessing the impact of the technical measures currently in force, which is essential for effective adaptation, and the request for genuine consultation with all the stakeholders and, in particular, fishermen, for the preparation of the next regulation. in conclusion, i would draw attention to the fact that this future commission proposal must be made within a reasonable timeframe, for a new regulation applicable on 1 january 2013, the date on which the new cfp will enter into force. it is essential that we work on this new proposal now. it would not be reasonable to extend the period of application of the present regulation by another 18 months. the technical measures on which my report is based are transitional and validated as such.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their work. now let me refer to each report in turn, trying to focus on the substance in order to gain time. regarding the agreement between the european union and the union of comoros, i would like to thank mr capoulas santos for his work as rapporteur and am pleased to see the very strong support of the fisheries committee as a whole on the substance of this proposal. as the house will be aware, the eu’s commitment is to continue promoting responsible and sustainable fisheries in the waters of our partners, including the indian ocean region. it is very important to maintain bilateral relationships with this region’s countries and comoros, in this case, in connection with the participation of the european union in regional fisheries organisations such as the indian ocean tuna commission. we have to be present there and that is why this agreement is important. at present, the european union has four active fisheries partnership agreements in the indian ocean – namely with seychelles, madagascar, mozambique and this one with the union of comoros. i would like to underline that it is very important for the commission and the european union to reach an agreement with comoros, as the agreement plays an important role in terms of the presence of our fleet in the region. it is also necessary to reinforce the dialogue on the sectoral policy in order to encourage the implementation of a responsible fisheries policy in this region. let me say a few words referring to the requests made by the rapporteur to the commission in the conclusion to his report. i would like to report that the commission is committed to keeping the european parliament fully informed at all stages of the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements. we really mean it, and we want to make available all relevant information, but we do have to act in line with the commitments made in the framework agreement. in practice, the commission services have been honouring this commitment for more than one year now. the commission is sending the european parliament the same information as to the council and at the same time. in particular, i am committed to making available ex-ante and ex-post evaluations of our agreements as soon as possible. to give you just one example: in view of tomorrow’s vote on the resolution of the fisheries partnership agreement with mauritania, the commission services have made arrangements that the evaluation report of this agreement will be available ahead of the foreseen schedule, so the members of this parliament can vote after being informed about this report. as regards participation of members of this parliament as observers in international meetings, i must emphasise that the framework agreement applies to multilateral international conferences and meetings. at the same time, we intend to continue established successful practices of participation in bilateral negotiations. nevertheless, any decision to include meps as observers in eu delegations is taken by the college of commissioners on a case-by-case basis following the evaluation of the legal, diplomatic and technical possibilities pursuant to the framework agreement. i would, however, like to underline here that my personal attitude and that of the services is very positive and i would like to facilitate your participation. turning now to the second report on community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, i would also like to thank the fisheries committee and the rapporteur, mr ferreira, for their work on this proposal. thanks to their efforts, we have a text before us which is acceptable to the council also. i am happy to say that this text is also acceptable to the commission, so there has been excellent cooperation between the three institutions on this file. after a successful informal trialogue held on 2 march, a consensus was achieved on the outstanding points, so the commission hopes that a first reading agreement can be achieved on this proposal. i hope we will be successful on that. i would like to recall that this proposal rationalises the regulation on the so-called second financial instrument. this regulation covers spending in international relations, governance, data collection and scientific advice, and also control and enforcement. the revision intends to ensure coherence between the regulation and other elements of the legislative framework. it makes limited adaptations and clarifications of the provisions. i therefore urge the european parliament to approve the proposal i will turn now to the third report, on transitional technical measures, for which i warmly thank the rapporteur, mrs grelier. the purpose of this proposal is to extend existing transitional technical measures until the end of 2012. this is based on the assumption that the reformed common fisheries policy will enter into force on 1 january of next year. i hope we will be successful in that aim. my intention in proposing this extension is to avoid opening complex discussions on technical measures in the way of our reform. the commission supports the amendment agreed by the fisheries committee on a mesh size range for boarfish, as it is based on scientific advice. i note the concerns of some members and also by certain member states who have sought additional amendments. we could not accept these as these had not yet been tested by scientists, or because scientists have actually not received full information from member states in order to make an assessment. finally, i would like to say a few words on the report concerning the imports of fishery products from greenland, and i would like here to thank the chair of the fisheries committee, mrs fraga, for her work. i would like to underline that the measures proposed by the commission address a long-standing request from greenland. these measures seek to simplify the relevant sanitary measures and certification procedures and make greenland part of the single market for fishery products and derived products. this is entirely in line with our commitment in the agreement of 2006 to contribute to the development of greenland and to cooperate in the area of food safety. the commission is very pleased to note that all parties concerned – the member states in council with unanimity, greenland, the european parliament and also the national parliaments of the member states – are prepared to deliver on this commitment and support the proposal. let me be clear: for us, the commission, the relationship with greenland is of extreme importance and i think that everybody understands why. it is a political priority, and i therefore hope that the discussions on the legal basis of this proposal will not risk putting in place these important measures. i understood very well mrs fraga’s concerns about the legal basis of the proposal and the competence of the european parliament. i can say that the commission will not stand in the way of finding a pragmatic solution. although we remain convinced that the legal basis of our proposal is correct, we would accept – and i would like to clarify this – the council adopting the position of parliament. that will be okay with us. it is now up to the council to consider the options and move the case forward in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. i hope we can resolve this issue very soon in order to avoid an impact on our relations with greenland. this is our first priority, so i am here to say that i would like to facilitate the work which mrs fraga has done in order to find a solution. finally, i would like to thank the committee on fisheries and all the rapporteurs for their work. i am sorry i have spoken too much, but i had four reports to comment on.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on budgets, we have received this report on the fisheries agreement between the european union and the union of the comoros. the committee approved the agreement. however, the committee felt, firstly, that parliament's vote on this report was meaningless, since it was taken after it was signed. the small amount of money involved here limits the impact of this dysfunction, but in the future it should of course be possible to decide in advance on such agreements. secondly, the commission felt that the content of these agreements should be further analysed in terms of monitoring the reality of the catches made and the protection of fisheries resources in the face of pressure from the pech, and also to ensure that the local development component of these agreements is effective and properly applied. the committee on budgets has therefore planned to work closely with the committee on fisheries in order to hold a thorough working meeting on this subject in due course.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a heartfelt cry. parliament has only one seat, strasbourg. i now wish to congratulate mr ferreira on his report on community financial measures relating to the implementation of the cfp and the law of the sea. the amendments to this regulation proposed by the commission and parliament make it possible to specify the possible community investments in research funding. it brings the regulation into line with developments in the community legislative framework for the collection, management and use of data. i am particularly pleased about the possibility of financing scientific research into fisheries and aquaculture. we will now be able to carry out studies on the degree of trade dependence of the european union on imports from third countries. as you know, our market is dependent on imports for more than 60%, and this is increasing. it is essential to develop support for our european producers, instead of developing a one-way trade policy which is damaging to european production. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the grelier report. technical measures are a very sensitive subject which must be changed quickly when we have the commission's proposals on the cfp reform package. this report, which we shall adopt tomorrow, makes it possible to extend a transitional regime of technical measures governing fishing activities. this extension will allow us, on the one hand, to avoid a regulatory vacuum after 30 june this year, but also to allow fishing activities until the reform of the cfp and to conduct a thorough impact study on all the technical measures in force. it is not reasonable at this stage to accept substantive amendments to this report, because such amendments would prolong the legislative procedure and would lead to lengthy discussions in the council. finally, i would like to congratulate mr capoulas santos on his report on the fisheries partnership agreement with the comoros and our colleague carmen fraga on greenland.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will try to speak more slowly. mr president, i thank the members for their rather favourable comments on this report, which echo the discussions which took place at the meeting of the committee on fisheries. i share the commissioner's position that the amendment which specifies the size of the nets for catching wild fish should be accepted and that the particular requests for modification of certain technical measures should not be accepted, on the grounds that they have not been supported by impact studies for the vessels and ecosystems concerned, or that their scientific data have not been transmitted by the member states, and that the set of measures which are all linked together have not been evaluated. i would like to stress, as the previous speakers have done this evening, the urgency for the commission to proceed, as quickly as possible, with the evaluation of the measures in progress and to draw up, on this basis, a new proposal in parallel with the process of reforming the cfp, and not at the end of it. i would like to pay attention to this point, madam commissioner, and i have taken note of your willingness to speed up the preparation of the proposal. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of joint work between the european institutions and the fishing industry on the collection and sharing of scientific data, which seems to me to be the condition for a common policy of renewed, fair and shared fishing, endowed with sufficient means and is an important point , which allies economic interests and the sustainability of the activity, in the interest of all, fishermen, consumers and citizens.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have something to say, a word which may be at odds with the current situation, but which is all the more important to emphasize, and that is 'ambition': ambition for the internal market, commissioner, ambition for europe, ambition to demonstrate to the citizen that the construction of europe is progress for his rights, his rights as a worker, as a consumer, as a tourist, but more broadly as an individual. i would like to congratulate michel barnier, who embodies this ambition in all the projects he wants to implement. as rapporteur for the opinion of the parliament's committee on regional development, i welcome the ideas contained in the report: the need for special action for regions with specific geographical characteristics, such as the outermost regions, the creation of a european patent for companies, a european statute for foundations, mutual societies and associations, the introduction of bonds for the financing of concrete projects and the need to promote sustainable development within the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, i think many of my colleagues have mentioned that the story of this single market package is the monti report, and the monti report advocated a great compromise, in a way, between those who advocate more competition and those who advocate more consideration of social, environmental and also fiscal aspects. i think that in this parliament, provided that the texts are not torn up in the votes we will be taking in plenary in a few hours' time, we have succeeded in finding this compromise, including in the fourteen proposals which appear in all three reports. and i know that you are discussing within the commission's college which major lines you will adopt, and we will of course be very attentive to ensuring that the balance found in the european parliament and desired by mario monti is taken up and extended in the 12 lines of work you have mentioned. i would like to stress three points which i consider particularly important, in addition to what emilie turunen said earlier for the green group. the first element concerns competition. the question of the single market is what competition is based on. is competition based on innovation, on products, or is it based on rules, on environmental dumping, on social dumping? i think we have found a balance here in this parliament - and i hope you can bring it to the commission - which is to say yes to more competition through innovation, to more capital investment, but also yes to a social clause, yes to environmental standards which ensure that competition does not lead to regulatory dumping. and it is these two aspects which i believe are fundamental to our compromise. the second point i would like to stress is the tax aspect. when you proposed the consolidated basis for multinationals in your first version of the single market act, it was not an optional proposal, that is to say that all companies had to submit to this consolidated basis. in the proposal which the commission put forward some ten days ago, it is an optional measure, that is to say, instead of building the single market, we are destroying the single market. we're going to add a new regime, we're going to add complexity, we're going to add regulatory arbitrage, instead of doing tax harmonization. the commission's proposal two weeks ago is totally contrary to what we want in the european parliament and to what you proposed. the last point, very quickly, is to emphasize the notion of reciprocity, in exactly the same terms as you did. the single market is 500 million people, it is an economic construct, but it is also a political construct which must allow us to weigh upwards in globalisation.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate all the members who have been involved in the preparation of these reports. i think we have arrived at three balanced texts, which are a strong message from parliament to the college of commissioners on our priorities for a single market that works effectively for citizens, for growth and for business. we have set out a clear road map for the commission. firstly, and we agree with you, commissioner, to propose a legislative framework on public procurement, public-private partnerships and service concessions, a framework which should protect small operators, smes and local contracting authorities, and which will ensure reciprocity between the european union and the industrialized countries and the large emerging countries. secondly, to make the common consolidated corporate tax base and the clarification of the vat framework a priority. this is essential if our smes are to thrive in a healthy competitive environment. finally, to ensure the financing of innovation for strong and sustainable growth in major european infrastructure projects through the creation of european bond issues. i would like to conclude by stressing the importance, in my view, of having reached a good compromise on the key issues of guaranteeing social rights in the single market legislation and the protection of services of general interest in the spirit of the lisbon treaty. we are sending you a clear message, commissioner, that the economy must be at the service of the people, not the other way around. you need our support. we are giving it to you today, with a major challenge to meet: that of reconciling citizens with the european project. don't let us down and trust them!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, economic and social crises are always moments of pain for citizens and of doubt for peoples and economies. in the last three years, there have been more and more reports of attempts to withdraw from national policies in the face of difficulties. we are told here of a multiplication of the checks, here of the difficulties in competing for public contracts, and here and there - we have had an expression of this in this house just now - doubts about the very usefulness of europe. europe is to blame for the crisis. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is doubt. your message, commissioner, is to tell the european citizens that europe is back and that it is here to protect them. in the past, europe has been naive in its foreign trade. she must not be! europe is often incomprehensible. it has to become readable. and we are all responsible for the thousand-leaf regulations that have made europe a factory of complexity. europe must become a permanent concern for simplification. europe is too often 27 rules which are too often contradictory. and europe must continue to harmonize. and then there comes a time when we have to talk about social dumping and fiscal dumping between member states, because how can we expect to achieve this single market if the rules are still so different from one member state to another? europe, finally, is often understood as a constraint. it must now be a source of facilitation. that is what you want, ladies and gentlemen, and i welcome that, commissioner, and that is to return the single market to the citizens. it's about conquering fears and bringing new reasons to live together. commissioner, you want to make the single market not just an economic construct but a political one. i am sure that parliament will support you in this.
mr president, commissioner, you are probably aware that the most intense discussions we have had here on your communication have concerned the place of public services, services of general interest, in the single market and their legislative translation. we have reached a compromise formula, which invites you to go beyond your proposal 25 and we ask you to go beyond mere communication, which would not meet the expectations and needs of the actors, users and all the stakeholders of public services, nor would it meet the objectives that you have formulated. the european union must send a clear and unambiguous message on public services. for this we must create a positive legal framework, whether it be a regulation or a directive. the treaty of lisbon provides the legal basis for this. it is now up to you to translate them into a legislative proposal. i think parliament is prepared to follow you in this direction.
in writing. given the importance of this issue and the tight timetable parliament has been subjected to, we can collectively welcome the work done. i agree in principle with the priorities identified in the various reports, in particular the recognition of professional qualifications, the portability of pension rights, the rationalisation of public procurement procedures, initiatives for smes and access for all to certain basic banking services. i am sure that other measures would have been worth mentioning, such as the issue of collective redress, but i am well aware that it was difficult to decide between these 50 proposals. i am also glad that we were able to reach a compromise on the social clause, whereby any single market legislation should be subject to a social impact assessment and, if the conclusions of the social impact assessment warrant it, contain a reference to social policies and rights. finally, another reason for satisfaction is that parliament calls for the accessibility, quality and affordability of sgeis and ssigs to be guaranteed and calls on the european commission to take sectoral legislative initiatives in this area.
mr president, twenty seconds just to get a dissenting voice in this concert of political correctness. these deaths are your fault because of the false hopes you are giving europe and the world that we are ready to welcome all these people. they're your responsibility.
mr president, i wanted to explain why we voted for this single market act. i think that's a step forward. we have succeeded in parliament in finding the right compromises which do not empty the text of its content but which, on the contrary, put real pressure on those in the commission who want to continue to have a purely liberal approach to the single market, which does not integrate social, tax and environmental issues. i simply wanted to make it clear that paragraph 54, which deals with public services, services of general interest, is a problem for us, and we therefore voted against a part of that paragraph which continues to advocate further liberalization in an ideological way, but in veiled terms. we are rather in favour of european public services and of securing the european framework, which leaves the possibility for each state to continue to organise public services as it wishes, particularly at territorial level.
in writing. in the framework of the euro-mediterranean association agreements, trade disputes that may arise between two parties, one european and the other jordanian, are still settled by diplomatic means. this solution is neither efficient nor transparent, which is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism, which will allow operators on both sides of the mediterranean to trade in a more predictable and safer environment. this standardised mechanism is based on the solutions advocated by the world trade organisation in its memorandum of understanding on dispute settlement, as well as mechanisms embedded in the eu's recent bilateral trade agreements. the introduction of such mechanisms in an increasing number of agreements will thus eventually create a level playing field not only for european economic operators but also for their partners in third countries.
in writing. civil revolts against arab despots are raging across the mediterranean. this is clearly not a sufficient reason for the eu to stop moving towards the establishment of the free trade area it has agreed with the latter. the signal is clear: the eu does not want to negotiate with the arab democracies that might emerge. that is absurd. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to harmonise the different national systems while better protecting the rights of applicants and improving the quality of procedures. this resolution provides legal assistance from the outset of the procedure, while taking better account of the specificity of vulnerable applicants such as unaccompanied minors. i regret, however, that in the vote in plenary the european right has focused on strengthening the fast-track procedures on the basis that all asylum seekers are potential fraudsters. i regret that these amendments were adopted because they present a very cartoonish view of asylum.
in writing. the report by sylvie guillaume is an important step towards the revision of the eu's asylum and protection rules for applicants by 2012. in the face of such terrible tragedies as the recent sinking of a libyan ship off lampedusa, this revision is indispensable. especially when we know that an applicant may have, according to the states, very different chances of obtaining asylum. in this text we ask the european commission to include in the revision proposal the right to free legal assistance at the beginning of the procedure, better consideration of vulnerable applicants such as unaccompanied minors and a framework for the time limits for appeals. the european right, however, regrets the adoption of a reinforcement of accelerated procedures which are based on the idea that asylum seekers are first of all potential fraudsters and limit their rights. but the adoption of the guillaume report is a clear signal to the council and the commission to work towards ensuring that all asylum seekers in europe are afforded decent and fair conditions and procedures.
in writing. international protection is supposed to allow people who are really persecuted in their own countries to seek refuge under better skies. however, as it stands, and even if some amendments have been made to improve it, mrs guillaume's report is a real incentive to abuse this procedure, overburdening the responsible services and depriving those who really need it of a rapid examination of their case. minors, regardless of their age or actual situation, are treated with unwarranted benevolence; the possibilities of using the accelerated procedure to reject manifestly unfounded applications are limited; the suspensive nature of appeals is systematised, requests for review of negative decisions become a matter of law; the necessary cooperation of the applicant for protection is very little required, even when it comes to proving his identity and origin, which is still the minimum for examining his file! applications for international protection cannot and should not be a means of circumventing restrictive measures against unwanted economic migration. it is indecent for this parliament to give a hand to these circumvention schemes by granting exorbitant fees to false asylum seekers.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on wednesday 6 april its report on the so-called 'procedures' directive. this vote is an important step towards the creation of a genuine european asylum policy, which we have been calling for for a long time. the adoption of the directive is also a clear signal that the european union needs a common european asylum system by 2012; the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is increasingly important, especially as recent events in the southern mediterranean and recent migration flows from north africa have clearly demonstrated the limits of the current european system. it is necessary and urgent to revise these european directives for a credible and effective system. in particular, i am convinced that the provisions on the accelerated procedure or the rejection of manifestly unfounded applications should not apply to unaccompanied minors and applicants with special needs; i therefore voted for the amendments which wanted the opposite. secondly, we were totally against the addition of additional grounds to allow for the accelerated examination of an asylum application, given the risks these provisions pose to asylum seekers and i very much regret that the amendments to this were adopted by a very small majority. finally, as regards the concept of a 'safe third country', i preferred to abstain.
in writing. we need to work more than ever to establish a genuine common european asylum system by 2012, better protecting the rights of applicants and improving the quality of procedures. my report goes in this direction with the inclusion of the right to free legal assistance at the beginning of the procedure, as well as better consideration of vulnerable applicants such as unaccompanied minors and a framework for appeal periods. i regret that the european right has focused on strengthening the fast-track procedures, on the assumption that asylum seekers are almost all potential fraudsters, because this is a completely caricatured view of asylum. i believe that with more robust procedures and decisions and shorter investigation periods, there will be fewer appeals and misuse of power and misuse of power and misuse of power and misuse of power.
in writing. in the framework of the asylum action plan, the european union aims to create a common european asylum system. the free movement of persons within the schengen area now requires us to approach immigration issues in a concerted manner. the report on the granting and withdrawal of international protection reforms the existing system through directive 2005/85/ec. the population pressures now exerted on europe make us look at these matters with increased vigilance. unfortunately, mrs guillaume's report does not take account of these considerations, which is why i and the european people's party are opposed to it. it leaves too many inaccuracies and laxities in the procedures, which risk misusing this historic right. for example, the concept of "family members" is too broad and risks abuse. after six months of proceedings, it will be up to the member state to prove that the asylum seeker is not being persecuted, making the task of the competent authorities much more complicated. restrictions on the use of accelerated procedures will increase these difficulties.
in writing. i voted against the sylvie guillaume report because it provides for criteria for harmonising asylum procedures which are unrealistic in relation to the procedures existing today in our member states. we certainly want a common asylum system, but not at the expense of utopian harmonization. the vote in parliament today clearly shows this unease in our house, half of which rejected this demagogic approach, preferring a more responsible approach advocating the adoption of effective and practical asylum systems.
in writing. all un member states have an obligation to protect refugees and asylum seekers. the eu is allowing itself to flout this right by forcing border states to hold refugees and asylum seekers in camps, awaiting an answer that is all the more uncertain as suspicion is raised, accelerated procedures are maintained and the number of officials in charge of these cases is reduced. i note, however, that this text does bring some not insignificant improvements, such as the end of the absurd concept of 'safe countries of origin', the prohibition of imprisoning minors and the inclusion of persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and comrade sylvie guillaume on the procedures for granting and withdrawing asylum in europe. this text is a key step towards establishing a common european asylum system by 2012 and thus putting an end to the intolerable situation where, depending on the european country in which he or she is seeking protection, the probability of an asylum seeker being recognised as a refugee varies from 1 to 65%. parliament therefore calls for more justice and efficiency in the handling of asylum procedures. it proposes that each country should apply the same - strengthened - rules for the protection of rights and the modernisation of procedures: free legal assistance from the first day, a framework for the time limits for appeals, specific aid for unaccompanied minors, shortening of the time limits for investigations. so while i regret that the right wing, which has a majority in parliament, has succeeded in getting amendments to the text adopted which cast a general and caricatured suspicion on the sincerity of asylum seekers, i very much welcome the adoption of this report. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which have yet to decide on our proposals.
in writing. i congratulate my portuguese colleague from the gue-ngl, joão ferreira (pcp), whose report was adopted by the european parliament today by a very large majority. this report affirms the importance of fisheries management based on recent and rigorous scientific data on the state of the resources. this is the essential condition for the sustainable development of this activity. some of the amendments tabled by mr ferreira, for example, allowing for an increase in co-financing rates (from 50% to 60%) in the collection, better management and use of scientific data on fisheries resources, were unfortunately not accepted. this report illustrates the contribution that the gue/ngl can nevertheless make to the debates in the european parliament, and i know that we can count on joão ferreira to continue this fight for sustainable fishing that favours small fishermen over the industrialists in the sector.
in writing. i voted for this report because the importance of technical measures is great in that they determine the activity of fishermen and have an impact on the future of fisheries resources. it is in everyone's interest to reconcile the economic balance of the sector, and thus to guarantee fishermen a decent income, with the sustainability and renewal of fish stocks.
in writing. we are at the beginning of the procedure for voting on the 2012 budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i consider that the one we are voting on today is balanced and i have therefore supported it. for the first time, it proposes a budget increase of 2.3 per cent below inflation (2.8 per cent). in this period of budgetary austerity, it seems to me that this is indeed necessary. i also fully support the need to explore new funding options to define a long-term budgetary strategy. i am now waiting for the european commission to make proposals to this effect.
in writing. i voted in favour of amendment no 15 to avoid an increase in the salaries and allowances of members of parliament, because we are in a time of crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's 2012 estimated budget and can only be pleased that it has been kept below inflation, thus sending a message of responsibility to our fellow citizens. in these times of great budgetary restraint, it is important that the european parliament should set an example in its management and make savings where possible. i would like to express my perplexity and reservations about the way in which the house of european history project has been carried out so far. as much as i share the aim of creating a place for the public to learn about the major stages in the construction of europe since the aftermath of the second world war, i am equally surprised by the relative approximation with which the necessary investments and the estimated operating costs are estimated and concerned by the opacity of certain decision-making procedures. i therefore abstained on an amendment tabled by the efd group which called for the outright cancellation of this project and set out the arguments against it. i voted in favour of an amendment by the ppe group which introduces more transparency and accountability in the preparation of this dossier and requires adequate parliamentary scrutiny.
in writing. it was absolutely necessary to take account of the current economic and budgetary difficulties when voting on the fernandez report on the 'forecast state of the ep's budget for 2012'. the initial draft of the report, which envisaged the construction of a house of european history with exorbitant operating costs, was therefore totally contrary to my convictions of budgetary rigor when it comes to public money. it is therefore necessary that all financial guarantees relating to this project be clearly identified before work begins. the european institutions must, especially in the present economic crisis, maintain proper budgetary discipline.
in writing. this resolution concerned the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and relating to child development and health. i voted against the resolution proposed in plenary because i believe it is essential that specific claims for children between 6 and 12 months can exist and be scientifically validated by efsa (european food safety authority).
in writing. we did not want infant formula to be labelled as containing docosahexaenoic acid (dha), a fatty acid found in breast milk, which is good for babies' eyesight. there is no scientific evidence to support the opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) on which the european commission based its proposal to authorise the use of this indication on baby food. the precautionary principle had to be applied and therefore the mention had to be withheld. unfortunately, parliament decided by eight votes to accept the commission's proposal. this raises the question of the independence and accuracy of efsa's assessments.
in writing. child products such as infant milk should be able to benefit from claims if these have been scientifically validated by the european food safety authority (efsa) as is the case for dha (docosahexaenoic acid) improving the visual development of infants aged 6 to 12 months. prohibiting any communication, even on recognised scientific effects, would be a brake on research and innovation in this area. it should also be remembered that after 6 months not all women are willing or able to breast-feed and they should be able to benefit from infant formulae with scientifically evaluated health claims. there is no question of the superiority of dha-supplemented formula over breast milk, that is not the point! parliament has today chosen the path of reason by rejecting this resolution which seeks to ban this allegation and to cast a shadow over the work of efsa.
in writing. i voted against the proposed regulation to allow a health claim that dha supplements contribute to the visual development of infants. if a majority of members voted for this rejection, 40 votes were short of the qualified majority needed to validate this rejection. however, regulation no 1924/2006 states that a claim must not be misleading and must be supported by scientific evidence. while generally accepted scientific evidence demonstrates that dha naturally present in breast milk contributes to the visual development of infants, there is currently no scientific consensus on a possible cause and effect relationship between the ingestion of preparations enriched with synthetic dha and better visual development in infants. it seems to me that in the absence of scientific consensus, more research is needed on the possible effects, both beneficial and harmful, of supplemental intake of dha before the use of this acid in infant formulae can be announced as being positive in the european union. the european parliament has today missed the opportunity to ban the future use of this claim, pending more convincing scientific evidence. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. the european parliament today rejected a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment and public health which called for further research before it could be said that dha could be considered as a substance with beneficial properties for infants. i regret that this resolution was not adopted without all the necessary scientific checks having been carried out. this is despite the fact that the systematic review of data on dha (docosahexaenoic acid) and infant neurodevelopment published by the cochrane library in 2008 shows that feeding full-term babies with dha-enriched milk formula and other long-chain fatty acid analogues has no proven benefit to vision, cognition or physical growth. despite the misgivings of meps on public health issues, the majority of the european parliament de facto authorised the european food safety authority to declare that 'dosahexaenoic acid (dha) intake contributes to normal visual development in infants up to 12 months of age'. the case of the ombudsman, in particular, should, however, lead the european institutions to a minimum of caution.
in writing. parliament wanted to clarify the rules that the eu will have to introduce when negotiating future investment agreements. in addition to investor protection, the commission should include specific clauses in all future agreements specifying the right of the third country and the eu to regulate technological areas related to the country's internal security, the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy. this is a strong signal which has just been sent to the council and the commission on the eve of the opening of investment negotiations with countries such as canada, india and, in the near future, china. european investors must behave responsibly abroad, while protecting the eu's right to regulate investments in the public interest.
in writing. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission has exclusive competence in the signing and negotiation of agreements on foreign direct investment. mr arif's report is paved with good intentions, like hell. he is particularly concerned about the nuisance of sovereign funds, speculation which should not be encouraged, the exclusion of sensitive sectors, social and environmental clauses, respect for the principle of reciprocity or the regulatory powers of the states - all subjects which he wants to put at the centre of future european policy. and i agree with him. specifically on the latter point. under no circumstances should the financial interests of foreign investors, of multinational firms, be allowed to take precedence over the power of states to adopt binding social, environmental and fiscal standards. this is what the mif, the multilateral agreement on investment, which fortunately was never adopted at the wto, proposed. and the commission supported this scoundrel! so it goes without saying that i have no confidence in this institution to defend, respect or enforce the principles set out in the report. giving it today the exclusive power to negotiate bilateral mas on behalf of and in place of the 27 member states is criminal.
in writing. while calling on states and peoples to tighten their belts, the text calls on them to ensure that the interests of foreign private investors are protected. it does not even provide for the obligation to protect public services against any private investment. he has no regard for the common goods of mankind like water. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and comrade kader arif on the european union's foreign direct investment (fdi) policy. in this text, parliament sets out two requirements which i consider to be of major importance in defining the framework for future international investment protection agreements which bind europe. the first requirement is that all such agreements include clauses obliging european investors to behave responsibly abroad in economic, social and environmental matters. the second requirement is that all such agreements leave the governments of the host countries the possibility to legislate in the general interest. in the past, certain private investment protection clauses have made it possible to treat the adoption of social or environmental legislation by the third country as an indirect expropriation, thus resulting in compensation. we must put an end to this drift. the arif report is a real warning to the council and the commission, which are preparing to open negotiations with india, canada and soon china.
in writing. the lisbon treaty has made the management of foreign direct investment (fdi) an eu competence. i have been keen to support this report which outlines this new policy on international investment and reinforces the eu's position as the world's leading recipient of fdi. the report sends a strong message: europe must be a key player in the investments of tomorrow. the emergence of new economies has upended the balance of power between countries and their capacity to invest. european companies need to position themselves in new markets and the eu must support them in their growth by providing them with legal certainty and by strengthening their integration into the world economy. fdi is an essential part of the activity of european countries. but are they always a lever for growth? i do not think so, because fdi is only effective if it is backed up by adequate policies, which establish clear regulations. the report thus guarantees an economic and legal environment for businesses, especially our smes. as a vehicle for growth and jobs, smes are essential to our economic fabric. we must be careful not to leave them at the mercy of aggressive foreign investors.
in writing. the 'protection of the communities' financial interests' includes the fight against fraud and irregularities. it is important to distinguish between irregularity, the failure to comply with a rule, and fraud, the intentional irregular behaviour which constitutes a criminal offence. the commission report does not fully take up this distinction and largely deals with irregularities without going into the cases of fraud. three sectors, representing about 80% of the eu budget, are singled out: agriculture, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds. the implementation of these policies and the execution of expenditure is the responsibility of the member states, which are responsible for the national tools to combat irregularities and fraud. the commitment of administrations is too heterogeneous and the high rate of unrecovered irregularities for some states is not acceptable. improvements are also expected in public procurement procedures, particularly in terms of ensuring transparency and combating fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on fraud in connection with european spending in the member states. the report criticises the increase in the number and volume of suspected fraud compared to the total number of irregularities detected in certain member states (poland, romania and bulgaria) and calls on the commission, the relevant eu agencies and the member states to take the necessary measures to protect eu funds from corruption and to adopt dissuasive sanctions in the event of corruption and fraud. it seems to be the minimum. the report also criticises france and spain for being "surprised" by the curiously low fraud rate in these countries and asks the commission for information on the ability of these states to detect fraud. the fight against corruption is fundamental. however, it should not obscure the complexity of the procedures. however, real simplification should allow better access to funds, both for local authorities and for the small structures that need them. it would certainly facilitate the management of funds and better parliamentary control.
in writing. i supported the report presented by our colleague marrieta giannakou. the commission is proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. it called on the european commission to make specific proposals in this respect. it also confirms that european funding can only be granted to a european political party if it is represented by at least one member of the european parliament.
in writing. it is a feeling shared by all european citizens - and at this level, whether one is pro-european, as i am, or against the construction of europe, does not change anything - it is becoming urgent to take back european issues. european political parties have a considerable field of action. they must invent new perspectives and give a new lease of life to the democratic instruments of europe. in this sense, it is necessary to relax the conditions for the existence of european political parties in order to free up energy. it is necessary to give a clear status to these new spaces for debate and, finally, to give a real perspective to the missions of the european political parties at the next elections.
in writing. european political parties are nonsense. the 'european political area' that many advocate does not exist. ideas and real political debates can only be expressed within an entity in which citizens share the same values, the same language, the same culture, that is to say the nation. the report states that european political parties must be the place 'where the will of the citizens is expressed'. that's an unrealistic goal. the record abstention rate in each european election should remind us that the supranational level is not that of a fair and effective democracy. the great increase in european subsidies to these parties is a scandal. the growing alienation and disinterest of the citizens is palpable, but the european parliament and, more generally, the european institutions are still determined to create a european political area out of nothing.
in writing. giving european political parties a legal status and personality under european law alone would transform them into a supranational entity above the national laws governing the political parties that comprise them. it is to create an artificial and dogmatic political space of 28 which is only virtual. i am also against the tightening of the rules for the creation of these parties, with a relaxation of the financial conditions to which they are subject in return, and against any link between the recognition of the 'european' quality of a party and its access to public funding. every effort is being made to reduce the size of the club so that the privileged few who would be members can more easily enjoy its financial and political advantages. finally, the right of political parties at european level to participate in referendum campaigns on european issues seems to me to be ambiguous. some of my colleagues have agreed, thinking of possible referendums on turkey's membership of the european union, which will not be held anyway. i thought of an unacceptable interference in referendums on the accession or adoption of the euro by a country, referendums which are a matter for the right of each people, and only of it, to decide for itself. i voted against this report.
in writing. i fully support this report because it is a step in the right direction towards the emergence of a european democracy, based on european parties with a clarified status and legal personality, which has the clear advantage of strengthening their legitimacy in the eyes of citizens who still feel that the eu has too little to do with them. it is also a question of promoting a transparent functioning which i consider to be essential for a genuine democracy. finally, their financing will be more transparent, which will only increase their legitimacy, and i welcome this.
in writing. for the past seven years, the major european political parties have been organised into european parties, grouped together in the groups represented in the european parliament. however, the visibility and activity of these trans-european parties remains severely limited by the preponderance of national memberships. without calling into question these principles, which are essential to the democratic life of the union, we must strive to bring about a european debate on a supranational level, which alone will enable europe to move forward. the report by mrs giannakou is aimed specifically at promoting the establishment of european political parties and has my support. it called on the commission to implement legislation which would create a statute for such bodies, facilitate their funding and allow them to be better integrated into the daily political life of citizens. such regulation would thus provide a privileged space for trans-european interests to emerge, while providing the prudential rules that guarantee an open and transparent debate.
in writing. through representation of political parties at european level, the institutions expect them to feed public opinion on european issues. i voted in favour of the report establishing a common legal and financial status for european political parties, made possible by the treaty of lisbon, which gives the eu legal personality. this status is necessary for convergence in the budget and organisation of political parties at european level and their foundations. foundations affiliated to a political party contribute to debates on policy issues of general interest. the rules on financing are clarified to ensure reliable and transparent information on their financing and operation. one of the important rules is that funding is conditional on the party having at least one mep.
in writing. european political parties contribute to the formation of european political awareness and to the expression of the will of citizens. as efforts are made to increase citizen participation in the eu's activities and to strengthen its democratic character, the regulatory environment for european political parties needs to be improved. i support the report by my colleague, mrs marietta giannakou. european political parties must be allowed - and even encouraged - to participate in european referendum campaigns. it is also essential that they offer the opportunity to citizens who wish to become members of the association individually and directly. in addition, changes are needed in the rules on the financing of political parties. self-financing should be encouraged by raising the current limit of donations per year and per person. other rules must also be relaxed - i am thinking in particular of the introduction of an authorization for carrying over appropriations to the following financial year. however, such amendments must be accompanied by the maintenance of all the current transparency requirements and the introduction of sanctions - mainly financial - which are currently absent from the financial regulation.
in writing. i supported the report by our colleague sandra kalniete, as well as the two reports by silviu busoi and antonio correia de campos. these three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a single market act published by the european commission. the aim of internal market commissioner michel barnier is to revive the internal market, but above all to bring it closer to the citizen. a goal i fully support. the single market act must be an opportunity to demonstrate to the citizen that european construction and the internal market in particular are for him and not against him. the guarantee of access to basic banking services or, more broadly, the protection of the quality and accessibility of essential services to our citizens, go in this direction.
in writing. of all the reports on the single market voted on today, and which i voted against, only the kalniete report stands out a little bit. it dares to speak of something other than deeper integration and the deepening of the single market, which has been unfinished for the last 25 years, without europeans seeing any tangible benefits. he speaks, for example, of listening to citizens and proposes that every year the main sources of discontent and frustration among citizens should be identified and addressed! that would be a big deal! stop the liberalization of public services, would say citizens angry about the delays of the post office, the explosion of energy prices, the deterioration of railway services... and we would stop! enough of unfair competition, enough of offshoring or imports that kill our jobs. and we would protect our markets and industries by sending the wto for a walk! we must abandon the 'euro plus' pact, which is to spend our wages and our purchasing power on the survival of a currency that has brought us nothing but trouble! and it would be done! but since the time that protesters have been marching under your windows saying that, who are you listening to but the lobbyists and the businessmen?
in writing. last october, internal market and services commissioner michel barnier presented his 'single market act', a set of 50 proposals to boost growth in the european union. the european parliament was then invited to comment on the various parts of the communication. chapter 3 of the act calls on the member states and the institutions to implement the necessary measures to bring citizens closer to the single market. this will include the launch of a system for the mutual evaluation of the 2006 services directive, the strengthening of consultation and dialogue with civil society in the preparation and implementation of texts and in the resolution of problems. i voted for parliament's resolution because it welcomes the commission's commitments and insists on improving the clarity of european texts, or using its power of sanction, to oblige member states to respect their commitments.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has revealed the failure of euro-liberalism, the dogmatic framework of the single market. far from revising their tablets, eu leaders are moving in the same direction and strengthening the mechanisms underlying liberalisation at all levels. the 'governance' proposed under the pretext of improving coordination is to bypass and punish national parliaments which oppose the application of the dogma. this text is harmful to the european economy and disrespects the sovereignty of the people. i vote against it.
in writing. following the monti report on the relaunch of the single market, the commission has put forward the communication towards a single market act for public consultation under the responsibility of commissioner barnier. on the basis of the contributions received and the priorities identified, the commission will propose a final version of this act: a dozen priority measures for the completion of the internal market. this is why it is important for parliament to set out its priorities and send a clear message to the commission in advance. this resolution on 'governance and partnership', which i supported, is a call for stronger political leadership, improved implementation of single market legislation, and the establishment of good governance tools (reduction of the transposition deficit, reduction of administrative burdens, partnership with local authorities, greater involvement of national parliaments, dialogue with civil society, etc.). among the priorities identified is an alternative method of conflict resolution. on this point, i regret that we have avoided class actions. the ep has not yet adopted a resolution on the future of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of three resolutions on the relaunch of the single market, which strengthen governance, the role of business and growth, and the role of citizens in this policy. more than 20 years after the single act was signed, the free movement of people, goods and capital within the european area is the hallmark of the success of an ambitious policy for the benefit of the citizen and growth, from which everyone can derive the benefits on a daily basis. but we could not simply take stock of the situation, because the europeans expect us to make concrete proposals to meet the challenges ahead. by recalling our priorities, we have defined a balanced set of measures which embody a clear political, economic and social model. on this particular resolution on governance and partnership, i wanted to vote in favour of a text which gives the project a political dimension. in order to improve information, the president of the commission will now be responsible for supervising the recovery. the single market is thus represented by a european body, which will unite european citizens around a common project and strengthen european membership.
in writing. i supported the report by our colleague antonio correia de campos, as well as the two reports by sandra kalniete and silviu busoi. these three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a single market act published by the european commission. the aim of internal market commissioner michel barnier is to revive the internal market, but above all to bring it closer to the citizen. a goal i fully support. the single market act must be an opportunity to demonstrate to the citizen that european construction and the internal market in particular are for him and not against him. the guarantee of access to basic banking services or, more broadly, the protection of the quality and accessibility of essential services to our citizens, go in this direction.
in writing. europe is not just a market; it is also a community of citizens, is a statement we often hear here and there! but what about the reality? few citizens believe in it. that is why we have voted today on the report on a single market for europeans, in response to the single market act presented by the commission last october. alongside reports on business, growth and the governance of the single market, this report addresses the expectations of citizens, consumers and users of public services. the ideas raised included greater transparency of bank charges, but also genuine recognition of professional qualifications and the portability of pension rights. the negotiations have included a reference to the horizontal social clause, which was acquired in the lisbon treaty and now needs to be translated into legislation. finally, the text takes up the concept advocated by commissioner barnier of a 'toolbox' for services of general interest, and in particular social services of general interest, which are now at the heart of the concerns of citizens and service providers in national territories. although it is not a legislative report, it does have the merit of involving citizens in the famous need to complete the single market.
in writing. too often the european union is distant from its citizens, its policies seem distant and the european project lacks meaning in the eyes of europeans. the single market, although it is only the vehicle for all-round liberalisation, deregulating public services, social systems and workers' rights by putting them into fierce competition, is worrying, even though it has and can have many positive practical consequences for consumers and in everyday life for our citizens. with the correia de campos report, the european socialists fought for a better framework for strengthening the single market, and for it to serve the general interest of europeans and not just of companies: consumer law, the protection of workers' rights against social dumping, with the explicit recognition of collective agreements in all the countries of the union, the demand for a recognized framework for public services, access to these services for all... the integration of the single market must now go hand in hand with advances in social europe, which is more necessary than ever as the crisis continues to affect europeans.
in writing. last october, internal market and services commissioner michel barnier presented his 'single market act', a set of 50 proposals to boost growth in the european union. the european parliament was then invited to comment on the various parts of the communication. the second chapter of the act lays the foundations for a reconciliation of europeans with the single market. 'you cannot fall in love with a single market' said jacques delors. but we can still try to make it useful for the citizens. i therefore supported the european parliament's resolution, which welcomes the balance achieved in the articulation between the freedoms of workers and the requirements of the social economy. this chapter thus devotes a large part of its attention to such essential elements for europeans as public services and communications infrastructure, solidarity and employment, and consumer protection. the commission is fully aware that the market cannot be set against europeans but in their service, in the long term as well as in the short term.
in writing. while acknowledging the growing rejection of the single market by europeans, this text reaffirms its central place in the community system. the desire to strengthen social legislation and to take account of the concerns of citizens, although positive, is inapplicable to the principle of the single market in the context of free and undistorted competition. this text is contradictory and false. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for the correia de campos report, which relates to 19 initiatives on the citizens' dimension of the single market presented in the single market act proposed by commissioner barnier. i supported this report which recalls the importance of putting citizens at the heart of the single market: too often, until now, efforts to complete the famous 'great market' have been concentrated on the single market and its organisation. let us review the exercise in the light of the concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers. i call on the commission to endorse the key priorities contained in this resolution. i would like to mention three specific objectives which must be urgently achieved in an attempt to make the single market more attractive to our citizens: - improving mobility (either by recognising professional qualifications or by making pension rights transferable for mobile workers), - extending the regulation on roaming, in particular by proposing a ceiling on retail prices for data roaming, - finally, accessibility to basic banking services and transparency and comparability of banking charges throughout europe.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of three resolutions on the relaunch of the single market, which strengthen governance, the role of business and growth, and the role of citizens in this policy. more than 20 years after the single act was signed, the free movement of people, goods and capital within the european area is the hallmark of the success of an ambitious policy for the benefit of the citizen and growth, from which everyone can derive the benefits on a daily basis. but we could not simply take stock of the situation, because the europeans expect us to make concrete proposals to meet the challenges ahead. by recalling our priorities, we have defined a balanced set of measures which embody a clear political, economic and social model. this particular resolution on a single market for europeans puts the citizen at the heart of the concerns. by promoting mobility and exchanges irrespective of place of origin, age or occupation, this text marks a step towards a european labour market. the social protection measures discussed in the resolution are also essential to regulate this market and support a model of social and solidarity-based economy.
in writing. last october, internal market and services commissioner michel barnier presented his 'single market act', a set of 50 proposals to boost growth in the european union. the european parliament was then invited to comment on the various parts of the communication. the first chapter of the act is devoted to the commission's intentions with regard to the creation of an environment conducive to entrepreneurship. the creation and innovation of new businesses must be encouraged in the context of sustainable development, combining international competitiveness with the protection of smes. this resolution of the european parliament approves and supplements the commitments of the commission, and that is why i supported it. it thus recalls the need to support the real economy more than ever, in particular through an ambitious european industrial policy. with a view to making the single market truly one for smes, the resolution calls for the creation of a european private company statute which would encourage the cross-border creation and operation of these essential elements of the economic fabric of the union.
in writing. the report proposes further liberalisation of the energy sector, the postal sector and a stronger application of the services directive, under the pretext of supporting businesses and boosting growth. in keeping with the neoliberal doctrine, he accuses administrative regulation and the protection of public services of hindering growth. european leaders have not learned the lessons of the 2008 crisis. the bifurcation into another europe is, however, indispensable. i am voting against this text.
in writing. a well-functioning single market is essential to ensure competitiveness, job creation and sustainable growth in europe. that is why i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague mr busoi, which sets out a number of priorities for improving the functioning of the single market, accompanied by a number of legislative proposals to achieve this. the creation of the community patent needs to be accelerated, public procurement procedures streamlined and the digital economy further stimulated by increasing business and citizens' trust in online commerce. finally, we should emphasize two key levers for growth which must be activated urgently: - innovation in the long term, accompanied by the ecological transformation of economies: this can be done by the creation of bond loans in the eu, more specifically in the fields of energy, transport and telecommunications; - improving the participation of smes in the single market: by expanding their sources of finance and improving their access to capital markets, by removing tax barriers to their cross-border activities and by revising the public procurement framework to make procedures more flexible and less bureaucratic.
in writing. i supported the report by our colleague silviu busoi, as well as the two reports by sandra kalniete and antonio correia de campos. these three reports were drawn up following the proposal for a single market act published by the european commission. the aim of internal market commissioner michel barnier is to revive the internal market, but above all to bring it closer to the citizen. a goal i fully support. the single market act must be an opportunity to demonstrate to the citizen that european construction and the internal market in particular are for him and not against him. the guarantee of access to basic banking services or, more broadly, the protection of the quality and accessibility of essential services to our citizens, go in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear energy is a non-carbon energy, but also a transitional energy based on exhaustible resources. it's also a potentially dangerous energy. the priority, after fukushima, is obviously to decide on the safety of our power stations. these stress tests must be carried out in the most coordinated way possible across the union, and even beyond in our immediate neighbourhood, by independent entities working to the highest standards and with the greatest transparency. secondly, the fight against global warming requires a coherent and ambitious policy. if nuclear power allows us to emit less co2 into the atmosphere to produce the electricity we need, we should not be dependent on it. in countries such as france which produce nuclear energy, reducing it in the mix is a prerequisite for any decision of greater scope. it is a process which implies that we redouble our efforts to save energy, to increase renewable energy sources, which in the medium and long term will be able to cover almost all our consumption. it is a question of safety at the power stations, and it must also be a question of security of supply throughout the european union so that no country is put in difficulty for its economy. finally, true solidarity requires the creation of an energy community.
mr president, on the subject of safety, i can of course only support all the points made by my colleagues on the essential independence of those who will be responsible for carrying out the stress tests and the fact that these rules are set at community level. but make no mistake, we have old power stations, which were designed without regard to the accumulated risks and, therefore, stress tests or not, we will never have absolute safety with the power stations as they exist. we must be fully aware of this. and i do not believe that there is a majority of european citizens today who would be willing to pay the price of a nuclear accident in europe. it is a luxury we cannot afford, we must be fully aware of it. so we have to plan for exit, keeping in mind our economic needs, our employment needs, our industrial capacity and the need not to increase our greenhouse gas emissions. i think we're all aware of that. how can we do that? well, with the great european project which would be the one, in fact, of the nuclear phase-out. claude said 15 years. i think it's very optimistic, it'll probably be a little more. but this is a major project which could mobilise europeans, which could restore confidence in ourselves and in the institutions, because behind fukushima, mr president, there is still an act of distrust of the public authorities and the monitoring bodies. you have to be aware of that.
i thank mr rübig for asking this question. i believe that the french regulator is indeed independent, as his comments show. i think that, in the spirit of what i have said about the european energy community, we should have an independent regulator at european level and we should have the means of control to ensure the independence of its work and its genuine competence.
(ask a blue-card question to mrs trautmann, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) on this point, mrs trautmann, an independent authority on the paper, yes. given its composition and the fact that there is no pluralism in the people who make it up, quite frankly, one can ask a lot of questions.
mr president, we can always challenge the composition at national level, and i agree with mrs lepage on this point. i think that there will soon be a period in which pluralism can be better assured, but i would not like to call into question the honesty of the work of the people who have taken their task seriously, including one person, mr lacoste.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must talk today about improving nuclear safety, not about calling into question civil nuclear power, which is an essential element of energy independence and the fight against greenhouse gases in many european union countries. the european initiative to carry out stress tests on all our power stations is a necessary and reasonable first step, which meets the expectations of the european citizens. these tests should be carried out according to a common approach and criteria, the methodology of which should be entrusted to the european nuclear safety authorities group. countries neighbouring the european union should also undergo such testing, taking into account cross-border risks. beyond these tests, the european union must work towards the harmonisation of international standards at the highest level, within the g20 and the international atomic energy agency, on the basis of the objectives of the western european regulators' association for new reactors. within the european union, cooperation between national security authorities should be promoted and intensified. the european union must serve as a model, whether in strengthening the rules or in the effort to build solidarity. in the face of such a disaster, the creation of a european civil protection force seems to me more necessary than ever.
mr president, i would like to remind my colleagues that the fukushima accident is not over and that there are still risks of explosion in relation to the melting core. i have a question for commissioner oettinger. it's the implementation of these stress tests. as our colleague has just said, how will you ensure that all the criteria you mentioned in the itre committee are taken into account by each state with nuclear power stations? how can you force a state to allow independent experts to check and control the plants if it refuses to do so? because, between you and me, if it's the same people who are self-controlled, i don't see how we're gonna apply your stress tests. it is essential that there should be an independent structure which controls the power stations in each member state. and how are we going to get the neighbouring countries to accept when you talk about armenia, with metsamor, when you talk about other countries, like belarus, etc.? parliament will have to support you, commissioner, but how will we do that? secondly, we have a real responsibility to get out of nuclear power, and that is where we have to propose to parliament scenarios for getting out of nuclear power. it's the only way to guarantee that we won't have another accident.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is very good news that people are moving to demand freedoms, rights, a change of political regime and more democracy. it is at the heart of the european union's foreign policy and the european project. this can only inspire our enthusiasm and support. but the very bad news is that these populations are being repressed extremely harshly, so they are manifesting these values and these aspirations at the cost of their lives, and this is absolutely unbearable. that is to say, the need to protect the populations, which led to the sending of military actions to libya, must now find other forms to protect the populations protesting in these three countries. i believe that statements are extremely important, legitimate statements, the aspirations of these people, but we also need action. these acts require the assurance of all those responsible for the disproportionate use of force against their own people that such use will not go unpunished. and for this, the convening and diplomatic activation of the member states of the un human rights council must be fully underway to obtain missions, reports, resolutions so that these political leaders have the assurance that these violence will not go unpunished. finally, i think we have a way around the blackout on the press. and journalists, both domestic and foreign, are having considerable difficulty in reporting on the situation. we know how to do it, we have the tools to get around these obstacles. we have to get them started. and then, when we have the means to act, i think we have to know how to use them. obviously, this is not the time to run after the syrian president to get his signature on the readmission agreement, which could only be considered under certain conditions, including an extremely serious, effective and relevant programme of reforms in that country, and the release of all prisoners of conscience and peaceful protesters, here as in the other two countries.
mr president, what role should europe play in countries whose governments are being challenged by the people, but whose leaders remain deaf to the repeated calls for more democracy, for real structural reforms and for fairer development? that is the question we are asked! there's a first answer for me. it's an emergency. the union must use all its powers and all the sanctions at its disposal to ensure that the repression stops and that political prisoners and journalists are released immediately. it must support the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry into the facts and call for a special session of the human rights council. in the medium term, i believe we must thoroughly review our relations with these countries. the european union must now clearly show itself to be on the side of public opinion, on the side of the people and not on the side of the powers in power. to this end, the union must establish and conduct a permanent dialogue with all the forces of civil society, with all those who want to promote democracy and with the leaders of the opposition. so this is a profound change... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. the resolution on the situation in syria, bahrain and yemen rightly denounces the brutal and murderous repression of protesters in syria, yemen and bahrain. the leaders of these three countries are firing on their own people who are legitimately demanding political freedom, human dignity and social equality. the resolution expresses strong solidarity with the syrian, bahraini and yemeni citizens who are showing great courage in demonstrating their aspirations in the face of police forces opening fire on unarmed civilians.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all my usual favourite: parliament has only one seat, strasbourg. as you know, the mackerel issue is a matter of concern to the fisheries committee. i am particularly concerned about the failure of the last negotiations between the union, iceland and the faroe islands. for more than ten years, the mackerel quota has been allocated on the basis of allocation keys, i.e. the fishing priorities of each coastal state. since 2010, iceland has requested new quotas, much higher than in the past, on the basis of a hypothetical geographical redistribution of the stock of mackerel due to global warming. to this end, iceland has suddenly - as our colleague mr stevenson has just said - increased its catch quota from 2 000 to 130 000 tonnes in 2010. plus 6,500 percent, you can imagine! this decision is unacceptable because it is unilateral and penalizes the fishermen of the union. it is also a very bad signal in the context of the accession negotiations with iceland. we cannot accept this unilateral decision. we want a speedy settlement of the conflict between iceland and the european union. it is up to iceland to adapt to our common fisheries policy, not our common fisheries policy to adapt to iceland. i think iceland is playing a dangerous game by imposing these unacceptable conditions on us. she's got to make us a more realistic offer. no one would want to see overfishing and a collapse in mackerel stocks, which would be detrimental to everyone. i call on iceland to show more responsibility and flexibility in the negotiations and to show more transparency in the discussions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as we speak, we can hope that the end of the ivorian crisis is now near and that the announcement of laurent gbagbo's surrender will take place we all hope so in the coming hours. the international community has been very patient, with the african union increasing mediation and the united nations refraining for months from intervening between the two sides. and if, in the end, unoci intervened, with the support of the unicorn force, in accordance with the mandate of the security council, it was to defend civilians against the heavy weapons used by the ruling power. the ivory coast crisis must now serve as an example to all those who refuse to leave power despite their electoral defeat. they should know that the international community is now determined to uphold the rule of law. but in countries that are so divided, where the nation is still a concept in the making, one cannot simply proclaim a winner. we must work for national reconciliation. this is the message that must now be heard by alassane ouattara, who will be responsible for setting up a government of national unity. while both sides have accused each other of massacres and crimes against humanity, investigations must be opened, accountability established and justice done. justice can be vengeful, but it can also be soothing. let me make the case for this second option, if it can lead to côte d'ivoire regaining peace and stability, and to a return to growth and development.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is difficult to intervene in the situation in côte d'ivoire when it is constantly changing and is so confusing. i would like to thank my fictitious rapporteurs who worked this morning on the motion for a resolution which will be tabled to you tomorrow, because we have all worked together to ensure that this proposal is balanced and that it preserves the future. we now know that there have been abuses on both sides and that the perpetrators must be prosecuted, whoever they are. the ivorian people are the first victims of the situation in côte d'ivoire. the un, through unoci, was unable to protect them. worse still, it has committed itself, with the support of the french military forces, to the detriment of only one side, on the basis of a un resolution, which was adopted in 1975, that is to say 36 years ago. the president of the african union, mr obiang nguema, clearly condemned it yesterday. fortunately, it does not appear to be taking part in the final assault that mr ouattara's troops seem to be launching. we therefore did not want to be associated with this resolution and we will not vote for it. we know france's role in africa. françafrique has done enough damage, and it continues to do so. the french authorities have made no secret of this, since they say they want to protect the interests of france, which they want to assume.
mr president, what is terrible in our modern societies, and in particular in our european society, and more particularly in our parliament, is the general gregariousness, the absolute pan-purism. apart from the last two speakers, everyone is repeating the same things that we read in the newspapers, hear on the radio, hear on television. everyone tells us that mr ouattara won the elections, it is quite possible, but, in any case, it is not obvious! everyone tells us that the brutal military intervention that took place yesterday was a neutralization of heavy weapons. how gallantly these things are said! a heavy weapons neutralization is a bombing. and i've seen the effects of the bombing. as a reserve officer, i can tell you that bombing is about killing people, people who are roasting, people who are exploding! in other words, it is a military action that benefits one side at the expense of the other! it may be justified, but here, among parliamentarians, among political leaders, we should have the courage to speak the truth. we're also told that these weapons are going to terrorize the civilian population. but then, in a civil war, there are civilians who are armed, especially when one side has kalashnikovs and half the country's military personnel with them. so i think we should put an end to this hypocrisy. we have intervened brutally in favour of one side against the other. was that justified? it's possible that he did. i will simply end by saying that i do not see how mr ouattara can be innocent of the abuses committed by his troops, and how mr gbagbo can still be responsible for the abuses committed by his troops! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr preda, i said that mr ouattara may have won the election, i don't think that's in the realm of the evidence you described. in any case, this was not the opinion of the ivorian constitutional council, which was, of course, composed on political grounds, just like the french constitutional council. i would be delighted, as far as i am concerned, if we could deal with the french elections. i represent a party that has millions of voters, whose leader made it to the presidential election final, which does not have a single deputy, a single senator in the parliament of its own country. this is a scandal that leaves you all perfectly indifferent! (shouting "off the subject" in the room)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make it clear that, in addition to the political crisis in côte d'ivoire, we are facing a real humanitarian crisis which threatens to continue. the post-election violence has left more than a million people internally displaced and refugees. moreover, this massive influx of refugees could reignite latent tensions in the region. the humanitarian crisis, dear friends, will not be resolved with the political agreement that is currently being negotiated. it is imperative that we act very quickly to avoid the worst. chaos is going to last for months in abidjan anyway. i welcome the commission's decision to increase its humanitarian aid fivefold, bringing european support to more than eur 30 million. the european union must use all the means necessary to help the most vulnerable people and to ensure that their needs are met. we must also be careful that the more publicized situation in libya does not obscure the seriousness of the humanitarian crisis in côte d'ivoire. in addition, the current security situation is preventing humanitarian workers from acting and reaching the people, which is tragic. i shall simply end by saying that there can be no impunity and that everything must be done to ensure that justice is done.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that the popular movements in the southern mediterranean have exposed the failings of our european neighbourhood policy. i do not think that the objectives of this neighbourhood policy, which are themselves set out in the treaty - article 8, article 21, the promotion and respect of human rights and democracy, which are also social objectives - are so much the problem, but i think that it is in their implementation that we have failed, and so we must obviously draw some conclusions for the future. this is the whole point of the work being done to revise the policy. the first point, which was pointed out by my colleague schulz, is our ability to really support, in an effective way, civil society and all the neighbouring countries, regardless of their strategic importance, commercial importance or political situation. when these countries are in transition, this is extremely useful and necessary. it is also probably easier than when they are under the yoke of an authoritarian regime, as in syria, but it is a challenge, an issue, to which we must learn to respond effectively. i believe that we must also learn to discuss these issues with our partners, not only in the human rights subcommittees but also at the highest political level, without the agendas of these subcommittees being disconnected from the situation - this has been the case in the past - or unconnected to other formations, such as the jai council. i support the communication on the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean, and i think that is an extremely important point of reference. i think that a separate objective should be added to this, namely social justice and the fight against inequalities. and then, of course, we must certainly revise our conception of mobility between the two shores of the mediterranean. i believe that the partnership for mobility is a good thing, but we must also learn to promote the benefits of this movement for people who move between the two shores, for host and home companies, and to organize its fluidity in the integral right of people when they cross the mediterranean, and when they are welcomed in our country.
madam president, the arab revolutions have indeed raised immense hopes in the countries concerned and far beyond. they show that the values of democracy and human rights can be universal values. however, the people of the countries concerned remain very sceptical of the european union, and i understand them, given their past support for dictators, and when i hear that one is unable to speak of democratic support without immediately associating it with an economic vision that ignores the choices of these countries and, worse, when i see certain governments, including that of my country, continue to ask that european aid be conditional on readmission agreements. this is a curious concept of mobility! i ask you, commissioner, if we could not send a strong signal to tunisia and introduce a moratorium on the tunisian debt until the tunisians have established their democratic government - this will be done in july - and i suggest that we help them to audit this debt by removing the odious debt, the one that has benefited the ben ali-trabelsi clan at the expense of the tunisian people. i am waiting for a precise answer, commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, in the perspectives you have outlined for the european neighbourhood policy with the southern shore of the mediterranean, you have spoken of possible levers. but you've forgotten one thing, and that's that i'm the example. in europe, people like me -- immigrants or children of immigrants -- from this formerly european-colonized area continue to be stigmatized, while we are, they are, and we can become human resources, strong mediators between the two shores at this historic moment. mr füle, how do you see this possibility? will you take it into account?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you, mr maystadt, for the attention you have paid to parliamentarians, although as president of an intergovernmental bank you are not obliged to do so; we are sensitive to this. i shall be dealing with the security and the community nature of the eib. on security, mr president, you said that you wanted to be the armed arm, the financial arm, of the european union. yes, but with a triple a, and we've been proposing for years to the budget control committee that you have a prudential regulatory oversight. we propose either to rely on the european central bank or, voluntarily, the eib could rely on the new european banking authority, with or without the participation of one or more regulators and, commissioner, we ask you to make proposals. i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling our proposal that the european union should become a member of the european investment bank, so that this intergovernmental instrument can be gradually made community-wide.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the eib, i would like to stress one point. when we started working on this report, the need for longterm investment was already crying out because of what had happened in the european union. the crisis has shown that we have worked too much with a short-sightedness, as mr tommaso padoa-schioppa would have said. we really need long-term investment and your institution plays a huge role. all that has happened in recent times - and i am thinking particularly of the southern shore of the mediterranean, perhaps the awareness of a number of difficulties in our energy choices - is an incentive to encourage you even more in your work and to support you. you will always have members of this parliament who support your action. i think, however, that, as my colleague jean-pierre audy has said, it is also very important that, at the same time as we have increased supervision of a number of establishments, steps should be taken in this direction. i mean, for my part, while i am in favour of project bonds and a lot of the ideas that are circulating at the moment, i am very sensitive to the fact that we should not get into the solution of public-private partnerships without looking more closely at exactly how they came about, and what will be, in the end, the bill for taxpayers and for everyone involved in them. i think it can be a very useful tool, but there are also funds that are being set up in europe at the moment - i am thinking of the marguerite fund, the work of the deposit boxes that have taken initiatives across borders - and so i wanted to advocate for more long-term investment and controls that are up to par with what we are trying to do together. it's the least i can do. in any case, we support you and we would like all the recent events to encourage us to think more broadly and farther.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, president of the eib, you know that the green group has traditionally been very attached to the eib. for us, it's a very relevant public policy instrument, and that's because we're very attached to it, and we're also very demanding about it, and the two go hand in hand. our view of the eib is that it is, after all, a bank in its own right, which means that it has banking constraints that we must integrate. several of my colleagues have just referred to the fact that it may have to incorporate new constraints linked to the banking sector. and at the same time, it's a completely separate bank, because it's taxpayers' money and it's there to do what others don't do. and it's about passing rules that go beyond what the private sector can do. i would like to stress a few points where i think the eib could do even better, even though progress has been made in recent months. the first concerns the question of tax havens. it is an extremely important fight for us, but i think also for the vast majority of my colleagues in this house. the crisis has shown that this is an element of opacity, an element of fragility, of vulnerability of the whole financial system and of the world economy. so in this report, we have a majority in parliament supporting the idea that you have to ensure even greater transparency on the loans you give to companies, which are going through tax havens. i think this practice should be ended. i know that you have operational constraints on the ground, but there is a political element in the fact that if you are the armed arm of europe, that means you are fighting battles. if you're fighting battles, i think the battle against tax havens should be one of them. and we would obviously like to go further, that is to say, that you should make eib loans conditional on companies which are not present along the entire value chain in tax havens, which are at least on the oecd blacklist, which is currently being revised. the second point we wanted to ask you about is the question of control and governance. sylvie goulard has just spoken about this, and i think we must expand choice, collective responsibility so that the choice of projects, which involve taxpayers' money, is made in the most democratic, transparent way possible. the third element concerns the measurement of the benefit of your action. you also measure it in financial terms, of course. you're a full-fledged bank - as i said earlier - which means you have risk-return issues. but you also seek - and that is why public money is mobilised - other benefits. you are looking for benefits in terms of social cohesion, in terms of fighting poverty, in terms of protecting the environment. and i think you can still make progress in reporting, in the measure of these extra-financial benefits, which are at the very heart of your action and your legitimacy. i think that we should not oppose financial and non-financial benefits, but have a balance sheet that is as broad as possible, that is not restricted to purely monetary and financial matters. finally, the last item i will be addressing is climate change. it is precisely written in the report that you must pursue all the objectives of the eu. one of the official objectives of the european union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. this will not be possible if we continue to finance coal-fired power stations, which have a lifespan of 40 years and emit a huge amount of co2. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 140 (8) of the rules of procedure))
my answer will be very simple. i think the eib has cost the british taxpayer much less than other british banks in terms of everything that is more private, and i think the public interest, as well as the interest of the british taxpayer, is served much better by the eib than by other british banks that the taxpayer had to bail out.
mr president, commissioner, president of the eib, after the remarks i have just heard, which are not worthy of this house, i would like to say that for a majority of us, the eib's action is very positive. the improvements introduced by the lisbon treaty provide new scope for action, which should enable the commission to further improve its efficiency and provide relevant responses to the global financial crisis. as you have said, the eib provides real support to small and mediumsized enterprises and makes a decisive contribution to the convergence objective of the european union's cohesion policy. these actions must be continued and, as far as possible, increased. the eib's contribution to strategic investment in europe must be increased and in this connection i would like to invite you to support those who have taken initiatives to improve long-term financing, in particular the deposit fund, the cassa dei depositi, kfw. i believe that they must be supported because banking and accounting regulations, as they are currently being drawn up, do not encourage the inclusion of longterm investment and penalize those who undertake such investments. and contrary to what is often said, it requires modifications, not just adaptations. the long-term financing is, as you have also said, essential to create a new horizon for europe. outside the european union, you are right to say that the eib must be a driving force and must, in this respect, propose initiatives, particularly for financing the mediterranean countries. in the current context of the upheavals affecting many of these countries, the eib can, through its targeted financing, make a useful contribution to economic development in the framework of the union for the mediterranean and thus to the democratic civilisation of these countries whose future is still uncertain. i have noted your availability in this regard if the union so requests, and i hope that the union will make the request.
mr president, i should like to thank the spanish producers who have sent us this timely petition. for months now, in this parliament, we have been warning the commission of the danger to our domestic economy of a number of bilateral agreements. of course, we are sensitive to the question of morocco's development. of course, we know that fixing the moroccan population at home is the best solution, and that this will save us from having to deal with many immigration problems in the future. but when the commission tells us that a new agreement merely endorses a situation, we see clearly from the olaf reports that the situation to which the commission refers is not the real solution. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to another point. we are told that the agreements negotiated, renegotiated, will make it possible to support moroccan producers. but what producers are we talking about? exporters are mainly large agro-food firms, which have set up large farms in morocco. it is not the small moroccan producers who benefit from our agreements, because they do not have the capacity to produce under conditions acceptable to the european market. we must not be mistaken about the subject, but we must not deceive the members of the european parliament either, and that is what i ask the commission to do.
in writing. the nuclear accident in japan must make us react. this does not mean that we should jump to conclusions. the aim is to have a calm and impartial discussion on the state of nuclear energy in europe and on how to ensure maximum safety. i therefore support the desire to subject european power stations to the extensive stress tests included in the joint resolution. on the broader issue of energy sources in europe, i would remind you that we must take into account the objective of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 and protecting the eu's energy independence.
in writing. the pro-nuclear lobby has a bright future ahead of it! it is unnecessary to go back to the context of this resolution, it was more than obvious. and yet the european parliament has no position on nuclear energy. that's too bad. several clearly identified issues were on the table: a moratorium on the construction of new power stations, the implementation of independent stress tests, the revival of renewable energies and efforts to achieve the essential goal of energy efficiency. however, the good intentions of a joint resolution soon fell apart: the fact that each of the parliamentary groups was in favour of and against it made it impossible to vote on such a motion without a political message. let me be clear: the european parliament was much better than i am used to! it is clear that the pro-nuclear lobby has a bright future ahead of it. and at the same time many meps have not yet heard the public opinion and the citizens' feelings on this issue.
in writing. i voted against this joint motion for a resolution. the compromise resolution was a good basis and i supported the amendments in favour of a planned and prepared exit from nuclear energy, taking into account the fight against global warming. i also voted in favour of the amendments calling for investment in research and innovation, to develop energy savings and to massively increase renewable energy. but the result of the votes, which were inconsistent, forced me to vote against the resolution as amended. it is now essential to have a thorough debate on all these issues and to implement an energy transition in solidarity, taking into account the situation in all the member states.
in writing. i deeply regret the partisan exploitation of the disaster in japan. the european parliament has missed the opportunity to send a strong message to the member states and the european commission to strengthen the safety of nuclear installations in europe and neighbouring countries, including through stress testing. this is where the debate must focus today to ensure that our citizens have maximum security from energy which remains the main pillar of the energy mix of most european countries; and will certainly remain so for years to come, until a sustainable, non-carbon-emitting renewable energy source can replace it and meet the electricity needs of our society.
in writing. the excitement that has gripped some political groups after the fukushima nuclear accident, who hope to gain political benefits from it, is unbearable. i do not recall the communists being so virulent after the chernobyl disaster in 1986. so it's true, there is no "zero risk" in nuclear. there's no such thing as zero risk in life. and we must do everything we can to minimize that risk. but we have no credible alternatives at this time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. nuclear energy or fossil energy: you can choose one or the other; you can't rule out both. neither hydropower nor the current alternative energy sources are capable of ensuring our supplies. the countries that have given up nuclear weapons but not the idea of teaching others to do so are glad that their neighbors, who supply them, have not made the same choice. stop being a hypocrite.
in writing. the parliamentary resolution intended to draw lessons from the nuclear accident in japan contained very positive elements on the safety of power stations, for example advocating 'stress tests' coordinated at european level by independent entities working to the highest standards and with the greatest transparency. like the whole of the french socialist delegation, i also supported the amendments in favour of a deliberate and prepared exit from nuclear energy, taking account of the fight against global warming. this phase-out of nuclear power will have to go hand in hand with increased investment in research and innovation, to reduce energy dependence and increase renewable energy in the energy mix of the eu member states. i voted against the whole proposal, however, because it was merely a juxtaposition of views forming an incoherent proposal. the question of the future of a sector as sensitive as nuclear power requires more than a "done-it-yourself" solution following a catastrophic event such as fukushima. we must now take the time to organise a really constructive debate, addressing all the relevant issues and allowing all views to be expressed.
in writing. i welcome the rejection of this resolution by the european parliament. the lessons we need to learn from post-fukushima are to advocate the introduction of stress tests, to establish new common safety standards in the eu and to guard against all imaginable scenarios. however, the introduction of a moratorium on new nuclear power plants during the period of stress tests in the eu is not acceptable. it will be a brake on the development of the next generation of much safer facilities. the question here is not whether the validity of this energy should be questioned. it is not a question here of succumbing to the idealistic and obscurantist values of those who would like to banish this energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. the fukushima disaster reminds the world that when it comes to nuclear power, there is no zero risk. the danger posed to mankind by nuclear energy is unsustainable. so we need to go beyond improved safety and safety testing. we must prepare a european plan for the withdrawal of nuclear power immediately. getting out of the nuclear plant takes time. not to start planning this exit now is a crime against humanity. i will not support this resolution if the amendments calling for an end to nuclear power are rejected.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the lessons to be learned from the nuclear accident in japan for nuclear safety in europe because i believe that the question of the future of nuclear energy, which is of paramount importance to our fellow citizens, cannot be decided by our assembly in a few hours on the basis of amendments adopted without a real debate. all the issues must be put on the table, no option must be ruled out, but that is precisely why we need time. the credibility of our assembly and the well-being of our citizens are at stake, who would not understand - and rightly so - that we are committing them to long-term paths which have not been the subject of a calm and exhaustive discussion beforehand, taking into account the different national situations and the constraints of our common fight against climate change. finally, i would like to deplore the fact that, because of extremists on all sides, parliament has not been able to vote in favour of immediate reinforcement of plant safety, even though there was a consensus among us that the maximum of seriousness, transparency and independence in the controls should be ensured.
in writing. the nuclear accident in japan must necessarily lead to a thorough reflection on the power stations in france and europe. it is necessary to carry out stress tests on all nuclear power stations in operation, especially when they are located in areas of seismic activity. i am thinking in particular of the fessenheim power station in the upper rhine. i also believe that an indefinite moratorium on the construction and commissioning of new nuclear reactors is not an economically viable solution and would put many jobs at risk and dangerously weaken our energy production.
in writing. tunisia, egypt and libya were in the news at the beginning of 2011. the aspirations for democracy are not the preserve of these states alone. mass movements have also emerged in bahrain, yemen and syria. unfortunately, the authorities have also responded with repression and violence. this is intolerable. the use of violence by a state against its own population cannot be left without consequences for the european union in its bilateral relations. the european union calls on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the democratic republic of the congo is brought under control.
in writing. the double standard continues to dominate the foreign policy of the majority governing the eu. this resolution is a perfect example of this. it accuses ali asbullah saleh and bashar al assad, but does not do the same for the ruler of bahrain. the dead and wounded victims of repression by the governments of yemen and syria are remembered, not those of bahrain. there is no reason for such considerations. i refuse to support this hypocritical text which, under the pretext of condemning some, amnesties others.
in writing. the european parliament voted on 7 april a resolution calling for the reassessment of eu relations with syria, bahrain and yemen to take account of the popular uprisings in these countries. i would applaud with both hands if i thought that was really the intention of the european institutions. the strong point of the resolution is to call for 'the suspension of negotiations on the signing of the association agreement between the european union and syria, which is not yet concluded' and that 'the conclusion of such an agreement depends on the ability of the syrian authorities to carry out tangibly the expected democratic reforms'. - what's the deed? but i cannot help but note, and the resolution itself admits, that 'the signing of this agreement has been postponed since october 2009 at the request of syria'. so the practical validity of this statement is questionable. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. this vote by our assembly, which follows several resolutions since the jasmine revolution in tunisia, is proof that events in the arab world are a wave whose magnitude and duration no one can predict. the situation is different in each country, but in essence these popular movements are the manifestation of an unshakable desire for democracy, freedom and justice. the union cannot tolerate legitimate popular demands, which are expressed peacefully, being suppressed by violence, which unfortunately appears to be the only response of failed regimes. europe's voice, notably through the high representative/vice-president of the commission, must be heard strongly in support of the citizens' demonstrations, which demand that the fundamental values promoted and defended by the union be respected in these countries. our parliament, which is considered a temple of democracy, must reaffirm its solidarity with these peoples and support them on the path of democratic transition. a review of our relations with the countries of the maghreb and the near and middle east is therefore essential if we are to succeed together in building an area of stability, peace and prosperity.
in writing. as the author of the resolution on the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries (ldcs), i believe that it is absolutely necessary for the european parliament to show unwavering commitment to the people of the ldcs. the increase in the number of ldcs (from 25 to 48 since 1971) requires the international community to redouble its efforts to achieve the goal of halving the number of ldcs by 2020. in this context, it is essential to find genuine coherence between policies directly affecting ldcs, including development aid, trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial system, in order to stem poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods for ldcs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the fourth united nations conference on the leastdeveloped countries. in this resolution, parliament reaffirms the principle of consistency between the various union policies in the field of development aid and cooperation. in other words, in the eu's relations with the least developed countries, all areas of intervention - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial system - must be designed to support the development needs of these countries. the resolution also stresses the importance of achieving the target of 0.15% to 0.20% of gni for development aid to the least developed countries, and warns of the negative effects of agricultural land purchases, such as the expropriation of small farmers and the unsustainable use of land and water. the principle of coherence is intended to avoid declarations of good intentions which are never followed up in practice, or sectoral policies which are in conflict with one another. you just have to put it into practice.
in writing. by voting, i wanted to reaffirm my firm commitment to the fight against poverty, its causes and effects. the least developed countries are inexorably left behind in the global economy, creating a vicious circle of suffering for the people. the delays in achieving the millennium development goals are a collective fault which makes coordinated action by the union and the un urgent. the priority projects are well known: food security, access to water and health care, and literacy. the solutions are also important, but i regret that declarations of good intentions are rarely followed by action. however, it is by working for a better distribution of wealth, by supporting these countries on the path to growth and democracy and by fighting against rampant speculation in commodity prices that these extremely vulnerable countries will be able to break out of the vicious circle of poverty. this is a responsibility, but also a security imperative for the union, because poverty is unfortunately often a source of instability.
in writing. this report reflects the current context of relations between the european union and iceland. since the treaty of paris, we have enjoyed friendly relations, closeness and cooperation with that country. it has been hit very hard by the economic, financial and banking crisis. reforms must be carried out and we must encourage them. since the launch of the accession process, we have started an open and constructive dialogue with the government of the 'ice country', which has also expressed its wish to join the euro. enlargement to include iceland will enable europe to make its policy in the arctic region more coherent, particularly in the areas of fisheries, maritime transport, scientific research and environmental protection. however, europe is not a lifeline or a remedy for a cyclical crisis. it is up to iceland to clearly endorse a genuine project of integration with the rest of europe.
in writing. i would like to remind you why i abstain on this text, as i do every time a report on the accession negotiations with a european country is voted on here. it's not that i dispute iceland's right to join the european union, it's that i think it's not a good idea. this is, apparently, the view of the overwhelming majority of the icelandic people. the decision to apply for membership was taken in a moment of panic, after the collapse of the icelandic banking system, to benefit from the support of europe. and everyone knows that iceland wants to adopt the euro without being a member of the european union, which is stupid when you know the implications, and we know that iceland is a member of the european economic area and the schengen area. in short, it will be up to the icelandic people to decide in the end. and i hope, if he says no, he'll be heard.
in writing. the text condemns the refusal of icelanders to repay debts contracted by private banks. this is despite the fact that the vast majority of the voters rejected the idea of a refund. it obliges them to apply the copenhagen criteria rigorously. he welcomes the imf's plans for the country. he proposed a commission campaign in iceland, modelled on the irish campaign, in preparation for the national referendum on eu membership. i vote against these repeated attacks on the icelandic people and the crude logic of liberal normalisation which they express.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament delegation to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i am following closely the progress of that country and its application to join the european union. although there is still work to be done in the areas of politics, the judiciary, public administration, the fight against corruption and freedom of expression, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made considerable progress, notably in the areas of decentralisation and education and with its reform of the prison system. the country's bilateral problems with greece should therefore not be an obstacle to the opening of accession negotiations. i voted in favour of opening these negotiations. i would also like to remind you that the country will be holding early elections in june, so i call on all political parties to unite and work closely together to secure the accession of their country to the european union.
in writing. the resolution calls on the fyrom to do everything possible to liberalize its economy and its electricity. she teaches democracy and even journalism at the arym. i vote against this arrogant and rude text.
in writing. this resolution is a bad faith achievement. it has managed to avoid speaking negatively about mr ouattara's camp, whose abuses are being investigated by the united nations. but it is true that mr ouattara, a muslim of non-ivorian origin who trained at the imf in washington, can only rally your support. it is a disaster for the unoci, while the un itself has been forced to call on france to help it in its mission, including the protection of foreign nationals. what a powerful and useful tool! as for the attention you pay to respecting the verdict of the ballot box, we would like it to be as strong when the peoples of europe reject the treaties you propose to them. you're really only supporting the results that suit you. such a short-sighted manichaeism cannot be supported, nor can a resolution which is even less well-informed than the articles in european newspapers from which it seems to have been drawn.
in writing. for the past four months, côte d'ivoire has been plunged into a deep political crisis caused by the refusal of former president laurent gbagbo to hand over power to legitimate president alassane ouattara. this situation has particularly catastrophic humanitarian consequences. the post-election violence has left more than one million people internally displaced and refugees. moreover, this massive influx of refugees could reignite the already existing tensions in the region. the crisis is therefore likely to continue. while i welcome the commission's decision to increase its humanitarian aid fivefold, bringing european support to €30 million, it is essential that the european union does its utmost to help the most vulnerable people and to ensure that their needs are met.
in writing. i have been keen to support this resolution which clearly condemns the abuses committed against the civilian population by militias loyal to the outgoing ivorian president, laurent gbagbo. a diplomatic solution to the conflict would have been preferable, but the level of violence in abidjan and the self-destructive and self-defeating attitude of the deposed president required un intervention to protect civilians and facilitate the seizure of power by the legitimate president, alassane ouattara. the resolution therefore reinforces the intervention of french forces under un mandate, which is helping to enforce the law and the result of the elections, and to protect the lives of civilians and european citizens. once the rule of law has been restored, the legitimate ivorian authorities, with the support of the international community, will have to ensure that the candidate who lost the last presidential elections in côte d'ivoire, laurent gbagbo, and all those suspected of being responsible for human rights violations, are held criminally accountable for their actions. finally, i believe that the eu must continue its commitment to long-term support for côte d'ivoire, in order to support national reconciliation and help the reconstruction and stabilisation of the country.
in writing. the new european neighbourhood policy we are promised is nothing but a repetition of the same, with a few glimmers of democratic lucidity added. on the eastern side, everything is there: free trade areas, support for the nabucco and agri projects, outsourcing of 'management of migration flows'. it doesn't change anything. i vote against it. the eu is neither a state nor a democracy. but it's already behaving like an imperialist power.
in writing. we need to rethink our policy in the southern mediterranean. the european neighbourhood policy was to promote the values of democracy and human rights. but the events that have taken place on the south bank since the beginning of the year show that we have not succeeded. cooperation in areas such as education and economic modernization has certainly had an effect. the same cannot be said of good governance, judicial reform and democracy, which are the stated objectives of the european neighbourhood policy. this text has the merit of proposing solutions to a thorough rethinking of this policy. i hope that the european commission and the council will be able to draw inspiration from this.
in writing. the new european neighbourhood policy we are promised is nothing but a repetition of the same, with some additional democratic considerations. the agreements negotiated with dictatorships must remain: free trade area, outsourcing of 'management of migration flows', eu energy security, everything is there. the eu is mocking the nascent democracies. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report because current events must push us to rethink and not just to reorientate the neighbourhood policy. in economic, commercial and political matters, respect for rights and freedoms must be both the conditions and the objectives of our cooperation. the eu's financial assistance for this purpose must be substantially increased and meet the same conditions and objectives. we must also relaunch the union for the mediterranean on a basis that is both moral in its requirements and concrete in its achievements. our cooperation must no longer be limited to exchanges with the powers in power: the european union must give priority to the various components of civil society and promote the emergence and structuring of political pluralism in this region. it is by encouraging the emergence of regular and organised alternatives that we will escape the dilemma between unconditional support for governments in the name of stability and chaos. and it is by re-founding our cooperation on values that we will give it the popular legitimacy and continuity that are essential to meet the historic challenges of this region.
in writing. everyone agrees that europe must review the way it cooperates with the mediterranean countries, as the revolts in tunisia, egypt and libya have taken it by surprise. we already have several ways of supporting the democratic transition of our neighbours on the southern shore, their economic development and their territorial integration in the long term. the eu has two instruments: the union for the mediterranean and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. both have shown their weakness, but real political will could correct our mistakes. i therefore support this resolution, which provides a clear framework and specific objectives for the next european neighbourhood policy. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the cross-border aspect of this policy. representing only 5% of the overall budget of the iepv, it suffers from a lack of interest from the central authorities and an alarming delay in its programming. however, this aspect can serve as a lever for many structural initiatives for cooperation in the mediterranean. the success of a genuine eu-mediterranean partnership requires a better consideration of the aspirations of the peoples, but also a real investment in concrete projects.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution by our assembly, which takes stock of the situation and sets out the future direction of the euro-mediterranean partnership. my commitment to the rapprochement of the two shores of the mediterranean has led me to make a number of proposals which have been approved by my colleagues and i welcome them. i particularly stressed the need to revise the european neighbourhood policy in the light of developments in the arab world, by strengthening dialogue with civil society, promoting exchanges of good practice, ensuring respect for human rights in our association agreements and supporting the democratic transition in these countries. the enp offers us a great opportunity to promote our values and strengthen our relations with the countries at europe's doorstep. for this reason, i hope that our partnership with our neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean will become a priority of our foreign policy. i will be vigilant to ensure that we work on an equal footing and that adequate resources are devoted to achieving our objective of making the mediterranean basin an area of peace, prosperity and cooperation.
in writing. in the recent events in north africa, the ruling regimes in libya and egypt used sexual assault as a weapon to intimidate and persecute women participating in the revolt movements in these countries. it is essential that the perpetrators of these crimes be brought to justice and that the women who have been victims of such abuses be protected from any reprisals. i have personally visited the kivus region in the eastern democratic republic of congo where this vile practice is regularly used by the military and members of armed groups. i can testify to the extreme suffering of rape victims and the impunity of perpetrators. the international community must do everything possible to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes do not go unpunished.
in writing. the revelations about the honor killings and humiliations suffered by women during the uprisings in the arab world have shocked and moved me and i welcome the fact that our parliament has denounced the atrocities committed against them. europe cannot tolerate such violations of human rights and its most fundamental values being perpetrated with impunity, except at its own doorstep, in partner countries and in the context of peaceful demonstrations. i therefore urge that the light be shed on these barbaric acts and that those responsible be punished. our resolution addresses an imperative for the future of these countries: to give women a central place in the process of democratization in arab societies. women have played a leading role, silent or underestimated, in the liberation movements and i think it was essential to celebrate this in this text. europe has committed itself to supporting the countries of the maghreb, the near and middle east in their democratic process. we must now ensure that in this approach we implement safeguards for respect for human rights and for equality between men and women.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after being oppressed by the chinese authorities for too long, it is now nepal that is depriving the tibetans of their fundamental political right, the right to vote. if anything, beijing has found a new ally in its hunt for tibetans, and that new ally is nepal. but in the end, it is much more than just elections, because for several years now the nepalese government, under pressure from the chinese authorities, has been increasingly restricting the freedom of expression of tibetans living in exile on its soil. last june, kathmandu handed over tibetan refugees to the chinese authorities. preventive arrests, bans on protest and assembly, even travel bans, have become commonplace for tibetans living in nepal. so our parliament must, out of hypocrisy, not only express its indignation but also firmly condemn these acts of repression in nepal and, more broadly, the very many, too many violations of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. and we ask nepal to stop this harassment and mistreatment of political refugees, by simply respecting their rights. it is sad to see, in the light of the history of this host country of nepal - which has always been for tibetans until recently - what this government is doing to political refugees.
in writing. in recent months, many opponents of mugabe's regime and representatives of ngos have been arbitrarily arrested by the zimbabwean authorities. mugabe's party has systematically blocked the zimbabwean government of national unity formed in 2009 from paving the way for a democratic transition and credible elections. all political violence perpetrated by mugabe's supporters must stop immediately. the european union and its member states must actively engage with the african union and sadc to ensure that future elections are not held in a climate of intimidation and violence. i welcome the fact that the european parliament's resolution calls on all political parties in zimbabwe to work together to draft a new democratic constitution acceptable to all the zimbabwean people before the next elections.
mr president, i am in full support of this request, but i asked you to speak on tuesday's agenda. i do not know whether you can give it to me now or whether you want to give it to me after the decision on mr speroni's proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone was shocked by what happened in egypt. but you have to be reasonable. six points will be discussed with mrs ashton. you have syria, ashraf, you have the gualtieri report, the albertini report, you have the problem of europe as a global actor in the united nations. it doesn't make any sense. i think we should ask the foreign affairs committee to discuss the situation in egypt, including everything that has happened between the minorities, to draw up an own-initiative report and simply hold a debate on egypt with mrs ashton a month later. we need to have a real discussion about what's going on in egypt. if you add a sixth point, there's going to be one person who's going to talk about it, and the other people are going to take something else. you will not focus the debate on egypt by discussing six points with mrs ashton. so i understand your emotion, but adding something that, in any case, won't be discussed wednesday morning is not the solution.
mr president, i will be brief, the conference of presidents has scheduled a vote tomorrow, tuesday, on whether to lift my parliamentary immunity. i do not want to go into the substance of the matter, but, specifically, as regards the agenda, i would still like to say that i am a little shocked - a little is not too weak - by the fact that there is no debate scheduled, so that i am not able, even in two or three minutes, to present my point of view to the house, which i think would be of some interest because it seems to me that the rapporteur has taken up the same argument that was last time that of mrs wallis, who had concluded that my parliamentary immunity should be waived, which the court of justice had condemned in very clear terms. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i ask for a debate, i ask for two or three minutes, it is a point of order as far as i know. two or three minutes to defend the honour of a member of parliament, that is all i can say. is it possible that this parliament will one day respect the rights of the defence of one of its members not just in guatemala or indonesia but inside this house?
mr president, the conference of presidents has scheduled a debate on wednesday afternoon on the proposal by the italian and french governments to put the schengen agreements in parentheses. excuse me, it's actually tuesday afternoon at 3:00. the conference of presidents decided that mr barroso should be present and i would like to know what information is available on his presence. why is this so important to us? because the first person to take a stand after the summit meeting between mr sarkozy and mr berlusconi was the president of the commission, mr barroso, whereas the commissioners then expressed a different opinion. since it is the president of the commission who represents the commission, we want mr barroso to be present on tuesday afternoon at 3 p.m. i'm sorry i confused tuesday with wednesday.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, parliament has only one seat, strasbourg! since february 2011, the price of oil has been rising steadily, recently crossing the $100 mark. fishermen in all european coastal regions are being hit hard by this increase in oil prices. the cost of operating the fisheries industry skyrockets when the price of oil rises. small-scale fishing, in particular, has been severely affected. the fishermen's income is also dependent on the price of oil. everywhere i go, businessmen tell me they are worried about rising oil prices. i hope that we will act together to ensure that businesses can continue to operate despite the increase in operating costs. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. that is why i am asking for the ceiling for de minimis aid to be raised from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per undertaking. it is not in any way a question of increasing the budget of parliament or the european budget. de minimis aid is aid which the state may grant to its undertakings on the basis that it does not distort competition. what i am asking for is a little more flexibility for the member states. i also ask the commission to analyse my request carefully and to understand the concern of a whole sector, which it is essential to preserve and develop. the fishermen are men and women who need a decent income, and we must support them. the sector is becoming increasingly fragile, in particular as a result of the increase in imports of fishery and aquaculture products into the european market. this is not just a question of economic profit. it is in our interest to preserve this activity for the development of our territory and coastal regions, for the food security of the european union and for securing jobs in this sector.
author. - mr president, i simply wanted to remind you that the treaties are clear on this point: the seat of the european parliament, this chamber in which we are sitting today and for this week, is strasbourg and only strasbourg. of course, we work in brussels. i am there two weeks a month and, like you, i have a good time and i work a lot. but the seat of parliament, that is to say of this house, is strasbourg and it must remain strasbourg.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not left behind. the particularly difficult situation for them of reductions in fishing quotas and plans to leave the fleet is compounded by the additional difficulty of the soaring cost of oil. although the price has fallen somewhat, it is still fluctuating and for the last two years this situation has been weighing on the daily lives of all our european fishermen, especially in the artisanal and coastal fishing sector. this is a very worrying situation and we want to express our full support to the fishermen. we therefore ask the european commission to raise the ceiling on de minimis aid that can be granted to them to help them cope with this crisis. this is nothing more than a transitional measure, motivated by urgency. in 2007, the commission had already reacted to such a phenomenon and, faced with this new peak, we would like to know, as you have already detailed some of them, the concrete actions it intends to put in place. it is also essential, as mrs fraga estévez has said, to check that the member states are using all the amounts currently provided for in the regulation. at a time when the outlines of the future cfp seem to be becoming clearer, i believe that our fishermen are not resistant to change, quite the contrary. many have told me that they are willing to make efforts, especially in the area of conservation. this is a collective responsibility. this also requires that they are not subject to factors outside their work over which they have no control. a rapid and effective response on your part, madam commissioner, would be a sign that would also help to strengthen the historically delicate links between the commission and the profession.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i must say that i am quite satisfied with commissioner damanaki's answer to this question of the consequences of the increase in oil prices for fishermen. because we are faced with a real question of political coherence in the european union, a serious structural trend, namely the increase in the price of oil because of its scarcity - which we all know here is a permanent feature - we cannot provide a short-term and circumstantial response by increasing subsidies in accordance with the vagaries of the price of oil. it is a question of political logic. the european union must remain firm on the principles and objectives it has set itself, namely the priority of combating global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels. the point is not to send the opposite signal, not to pursue a contradictory policy. it is not helping the fishermen to perpetuate a doomed energy system which will inevitably do them in turn. instead, they should be allowed to convert their fishing gear and reorient the factors of production towards energy-saving tools. subsidies should be geared to this and not to supporting the economy in the face of oil price fluctuations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the fishermen of the union are faced with three major difficulties. firstly, the quota system, which is very complex and not shared, has forced them to adopt very restrictive practices. secondly, the lack of training opportunities and the devalorisation of the trade have led to significant recruitment problems. finally, and this is our subject today, the increase in fuel prices makes operating conditions in this crisis sector even more difficult. between 2008 and 2010, fluctuations in fuel prices caused french fishermen to lose between 100 and 200 euros per week in wages, for example, with a constant turnover. as a port city, i strongly support my colleagues in calling on the commission to authorise an increase in the ceilings for de minimis aid. this would reduce the pressure on fishermen to enable them to live with dignity from the income from their activity, without having an impact, contrary to what is also intended, on the renewal of stocks. the future reform of the cfp will have to seek the support of fishermen. it would be a good start to show them that the european union, and especially on this europe day, is aware of their needs, madam commissioner.
mr president, i have just heard two of my colleagues raise the issue of sustainability and the need to subsidize professions because they cannot live. but it's the opposite of what we should be doing. the fishermen only ask for one thing, to be able to live off their work and to be able to take charge of their work. so if oil is a one-time problem, it will be a one-time problem in the future. we need to invest in finding cheaper, less voracious engines. but the reform that is now under way is to kill all the little people, all those who consume less oil, to increase the wealth of the richest. so much so that, reform after reform, there is a permanent decline in the price of fish, whereas in the fisheries it has never been so expensive and, for some fish, it is of such value that the consumer cannot afford it. what is important is not only to reform the quotas but also to reform and examine the practices of the profession which make the small suffer endlessly while the big get richer and richer!
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the draft spectrum policy programme at first reading and i would like to thank the commission for supporting, having supported and transformed this proposal, which was born during our discussions on the telecoms package. i would also like to congratulate our rapporteur, gunnar hökmark, and my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, on the good working relationship on a report which, behind its strong technical dimension, reveals major political issues. we have had many debates, and i have seen that parliament and the commission quite naturally share a view and an ambition. the fact is that spectrum is a scarce resource that knows no boundaries. on this point, everyone seems to agree. but it is in the solutions to be found for better management and in the general ambition that we find some differences, particularly with the member states, which i do not deny have historically been entrusted with a certain sovereign responsibility. even though not all the compromises tabled and adopted in the itre committee are always 100 per cent in line with the balance i would have liked, i very much support the overall approach to develop a more integrated approach to spectrum management that is realistic and responds to the social, cultural and economic needs of our citizens. this line, madam commissioner, is a constant in the positions taken by our parliament, whether on the own-initiative report by my colleague mr toia or on the proposals which i myself defended as one of the rapporteurs on the telecom package. as regards the rspp, my group and i have stressed several points in our amendments. thus, transparency in the way spectrum is currently allocated and managed is the principle of inventory. but also to provide innovative and original solutions to the increasingly frequent demands of the electronic communications sector, which are not only quantitative but also qualitative. we shall remedy this situation by emphasizing spectrum efficiency without limiting the diversity of services available on the air. in doing so, we will also use spectrum as a lever to bridge the digital divide and develop new services, accessible not only to large telecommunications companies but also to smes, start-ups, who will need them. i think that this economic dimension is essential. and in closing, i would like to say a few words about the next step. as you yourself said, it was clear from the outset that an agreement at first reading was out of the question, but we must find an agreement by the end of the year. it's essential to our public services, it's essential to consumer expectations, it's essential to the development of the internet regardless of infrastructure. it is also essential to organise the economic recovery of our european union through this resource.
madam president, madam vice-president of the european commission, dear neelie kroes, dear rapporteur, dear colleagues, i would first like to congratulate my friend gunnar hökmark on his excellent report and the openness he has shown throughout this debate. the draft report broadly supports the european commission's proposal, in particular on the need to make available, by 1 january 2013, the 800 megahertz band freed up by the switchover to digital television and the total cessation of analogue television broadcasting. the digitisation of terrestrial television broadcasting makes available a significant amount of frequencies designated in terms of digital dividends. these frequencies have generally recognised qualities of coverage and penetration of buildings, and are known as the golden frequencies. it is in this context that the european commission is proposing a first programme developing the vision for the years 2011 to 2015 of strategic issues for the european union in the field of radio spectrum. i would like to stress two aspects which i consider important, madam commissioner and mr gunnar hökmark. first of all, i think we should take the inventory proposed by article 8; it is preferable to rely on a precise inventory, drawn up by experts, to identify new bands before explicitly mentioning harmonised frequency bands. if the objective of finding more frequencies for wireless broadband communications is to be pursued and encouraged, it is appropriate to rely on this inventory without prejudging its outcome by designating, without prior technical expertise, one or more specific frequency bands. the last point i would like to make is the use of the frequency bands which are currently used for military purposes. it is not disputed that the commission has no competence to study the possibilities of sharing spectrum with military uses. i am therefore opposed to the amendment which amends article 7 (3), which deals with the radio frequency needs of specific union policies and uses civil frequencies for military purposes.
, in writing. i support the principle of helping pakistan to revive its economy after the floods of july 2010. however, i do not think that the commission's proposal is appropriate for a number of reasons. firstly, it is not a quick enough solution: almost a year after the disaster, we have no positive sign of the derogation that the union must obtain from the wto before its proposal can enter into force, we have not completed our legislative work and the negotiations in the council are still to be concluded. secondly, no impact study has been carried out and we do not know the effects of these measures, either on the pakistani economy or on the european economy (in particular the textile and ethanol sectors, which are specifically targeted by the proposal). it is also unclear how pakistan will redistribute export revenues benefiting from these measures so that they actually benefit the flood-affected areas. finally, it should be noted that the proposed measures do not impose any human rights obligations on pakistan. this goes against all the positions adopted recently and must remain exceptional.
the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and india are ambitious, they interest many economic sectors, but they are also a source of concern in europe and india, as i saw last month at the meeting between the trade committee of the two houses of the indian parliament and the european parliament's delegation for relations with india. india is a growing country, a strategic partner - you reminded us. everyone understands the value of developing our exchanges. but we are not starting from scratch, because the union is already india's largest trading partner, the largest investor in india, the largest destination for indian investors, and india is also the largest beneficiary of the gsp. a new, larger trade agreement will therefore have to be alert to new effects on fragile sectors of the indian economy. i am thinking, for example, of agriculture - as our indian colleagues have told us - and the consequences for sectors particularly exposed to competition from the emerging countries in europe, and i am thinking of the automobile. such an agreement must be geared to the development of our societies and employment and not lead to wild liberalization with disastrous consequences. that is why my group wishes to stress a number of points in this negotiation, which must lead to an agreement that contributes to the objectives of sustainable development and poverty eradication, and which must also be accompanied by clear and verifiable commitments, based on cooperation, but with serious social and environmental commitments. i would like to stress a few points in particular. firstly, on agriculture - i have mentioned this - we ask the commission to ensure that no provision of the agreement, either through the liberalisation of agricultural trade or through provisions on intellectual property rights, threatens small-scale indian agriculture. i am thinking of the seed arrangements, for example. second, on generics, india is the largest producer of generics in the developing world. we ask the commission to stop requiring data exclusivity, which all the ngos say is likely to hinder the distribution of generics. thirdly, in the area of services, we ask, on the one hand, that public services not be included in the sectors to be liberalized and, on the other hand, as regards mode 4, that the principle of equal treatment be guaranteed, that is to say, that all forms of social dumping be rejected. finally, thank you, mr president, we believe that the chapter on sustainable development must include binding commitments to respect social and environmental standards, in particular the ilo social standards.
madam president, commissioner, we support the negotiations on this free trade agreement with india, which must be ambitious but which nevertheless still raises some questions. first, the inclusion of a chapter on sustainable development. this free trade agreement is a new generation agreement, so it is only right that it should contain such a chapter. it is not therefore a currency for exchange but a negotiating chapter as such. moreover, while the free trade agreement must take account of the level of development of each party, it cannot ignore such fundamental standards as, for example, the prohibition of child labour. although officially banned in 1986, there are still an estimated 60 million children working in the fields and factories in india today. the commission cannot ignore minimum social standards in these negotiations. to return to the purely commercial negotiations, the question of reciprocity in access to public contracts is not completely settled. i welcome the fact that access to federal indian public procurement is covered by these negotiations, but what about provincial procurement? finally, i have some concerns about the protection of intellectual property rights, in particular - and this has been said many times - that of geographical indications. indian law only protects them at the national level, not at the international level. i understood that the commission had listed 200 indications which it would protect by means of an agreement which would come into force before the free trade agreement. is this still the method envisaged?
, in writing. we are entering a decisive phase in the negotiations for the eu-india free trade agreement. this is a difficult exercise in which the commission will, i hope, endeavour to take account of the various european strategic interests. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to the need to make progress in opening up the indian market to exports from the european wine sector. today, the indian market is closed to our products by imposing exorbitant customs duties of up to 150%. in this context we must demand respect for the principle of reciprocity in trade. it seems absurd that our market is so wide open to wine products from emerging countries, when we have no satisfactory access to their market. i therefore encourage the commission to continue the ambitious strategy it has successfully pursued in concluding a free trade agreement with south korea. it is imperative to compensate for the arrival of cheaper wines from outside the eu on our market by giving our products better access to foreign markets, especially the indian market, which has exceptional growth potential.
madam president, i would like to express our relief at the decision of the spanish constitutional court to allow the bildu coalition to participate in the democratic elections in the basque country. this decision was appealed. it therefore annulled the decision of the supreme court which had, once again, prohibited the basque nationalist left from standing in elections. in the heart of the european union, would it have been acceptable for citizens to be deprived of the right to vote for the lists they wish to support? spain has fortunately given up on these extremely dangerous paths for european democracy. we can only welcome this and ask bildu to fulfil the objectives it has committed to, namely the end of all political violence in the basque country and the end of eta. a new political framework is gradually emerging. dialogue is difficult but a will for peace has been very clearly expressed. i hope that the european parliament will keep a close eye on this important development, because the basque country is at the very heart of europe. it is essential for europe that this peace process, 10 years after that in northern ireland, be supported and that it also be able to come to an end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european programme of aid to the most deprived was set up in an emergency during the exceptionally cold winter of 1986 and then institutionalized the following year as part of the common agricultural policy. this has become a vital tool for 13 million europeans who are living in extreme poverty. this programme helps to reduce their food budget through the distribution of food by charitable associations and social services. this aid represents a cost of only one euro per european per year. with the federation of food banks, the people's aid, the red cross and the restaurants of the heart in france, i am worried about the future of this programme following the challenge by the european court of justice to its financing under the cap. our assembly has often stressed the fundamental nature of the right to food. our institutions have designated 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. to use the pretext of legal ambiguity to dismantle, as some member states are trying to do, a proven food aid system would be disastrous for the people concerned but also for the credibility and image of europe. i therefore call on the commission to take the necessary political measures to secure, sustain and strengthen this programme.
madam president, i will be speaking about the discharge for the european medicines agency, but i could have said something similar about the efsa. i must say that the work of cocobu is quite excellent, and if there is a time when parliament can take a stand, it is when the discharge is voted. so there is a budgetary aspect to what i am going to say, which relates to the quality of the ema's work, firstly with regard to its passivity in the benfluorex or mediator case, which is an unacceptable passivity. then in the management of conflicts of interest and i'll give just one example. i have publicly denounced, together with our colleague antonyia parvanova and a number of ngos, the absolutely scandalous case of the executive director of the agency. all this has been handled by the agency committee in an extremely casual manner and in a way which does not at all ensure confidence. the role of our agencies is to give us the means to decide and to enable our citizens to have confidence in the information given. that is why i strongly support the postponement of the discharge and will only vote in favour if we are satisfied with the conflict of interest.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the enormous work they have done on this discharge and i also welcome the presence of the council in this debate. the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is a question of european identity and not just a question of economics. i am speaking about this today in this house, on the occasion of the debate on the 2009 discharge, because the symbol of franco-german reconciliation is treated by some members of the committee on budgetary control as a manna, a simple means of saving money. i am also interested in the question of parliament's expenditure. in this connection, i propose that the group weeks be held in strasbourg rather than in brussels, as this would enable us to make the most of our seat in strasbourg. since we want to save money, i propose other things: for example, to abolish the friday allowance for our colleagues and to abolish the allowance for journalists as well. europe is attractive enough that we do not have to give journalists a daily allowance. we must not hide behind the budgetary argument to appropriate an important issue which goes beyond the scope of budgetary control, although i welcome the important work of our rapporteur, mr ville, on this discharge. finally, since we are talking about savings, i also want to see the compensation system for sponsored groups of visitors moralised and improved. i do not think it is very moral, and it gives a very bad image of our institution, that the group leader is reimbursed in cash, in cash, on the day of the visit, without any work, no control over the amounts that the group has spent. i should like to point out that sometimes the amount allocated exceeds the actual expenditure. it would be logical for the groups to send an estimate in advance to the visits department, for them to receive an advance payment from parliament on expenditure, and this on a bank account, and for the balance to be paid on presentation of the invoices actually paid, with a ceiling, of course.
madam president, i will only take two minutes if you will allow me, because there is no debate, there is no explanation of vote, which i find quite surprising in this kind of procedure. what's this about? it is a political expression, which is followed by... (the president interrupts the speaker)
so far these two objective criteria...
madam president, i voted against the discharge for this parliament, not so much for financial reasons as for political reasons, because this parliament is anything but a parliament. we do not speak in it, we do not have the opportunity to debate it, even when the fundamental rights of one of its members are at stake. beyond myself, i am ashamed of our institution. she's caught up in the political correctness. there is no confrontation of ideas. there is no real freedom of speech. it's called conformity. we spend our time doing the work that a technical agency for harmonizing standards or rules would do much better, and for the rest we play the united nations. you're defending human rights in guatemala, indonesia, all over the world where you have no jurisdiction. you're not capable of defending the rights of one of your members. i am ashamed of this parliament, it is a miserable parliament and a parliament of miserable people.
in writing. every year, the european parliament adopts a report on the european agencies in the margins of the budgetary discharge debates. and every year, the same report is made of mistakes, shortcomings in recruitment procedures or in the award of public contracts, of too many deferrals or cancellations of appropriations... it is not necessary to find fraud, as in the european economic and social committee, to conclude that there is maladministration. but each time parliament pretends to see progress and grants discharge. worse, he never questions the commission's policy of outsourcing to these agencies, whose aim seems less to be the effective implementation of european union policies than to provide every major city in the union with its own small batch of european institutions. the pressing question of the effectiveness and usefulness of these agencies unfortunately remains unanswered year after year. the few agencies that analyse their performance do so in terms of the procedures and processes imposed on them and not in terms of concrete results. the agencies are useful first of all... to the agencies. that is why we refused to discharge many of them and we abstained on the resolutions that accompanied them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 2009 discharge: performance, financial management and control of the agencies. if we want parliament to exercise its discharge authority responsibilities seriously, members must be able to have more complete and detailed information on the budgetary and financial management of the agencies. we see that the responsibilities are shared, but they also seem to be diluted. thus, the european commission, although represented on the boards of directors, reminds us, in relation to cepol's accounting errors, that an agency is "an entity with its own legal personality and full administrative autonomy, including financial autonomy". the board of directors, on the other hand, sometimes delegates management responsibility to the executive director alone. the european parliament ultimately decides whether to grant or refuse discharge to an agency on the basis of the rather succinct reports of the external auditor and depends on the goodwill of the executive director for further information. i think it is imperative that we address this gap in the legislation on the iac reports on agencies and propose a solution to give real power to parliament.
in writing. for the second year in a row, the european police college (cepol) was not given discharge for the financial year 2009. the multiannual action plan drawn up in response to the problems encountered in the management of the agency lacks clarity and the monitoring report is insufficient to give a proper picture of the actions implemented. the college's performance improved in 2010, after the departure of former president ulf göransson, who was targeted by olaf and the court of auditors for irregular and even fraudulent expenditure. but it remains unacceptable that this agency, which was set up in 2006, still does not meet the criteria of good administration. we need to think about the very structure of cepol, which is obviously too small to function autonomously given the complex rules it has to meet as an agency. and we wonder why this agency, whose mission is to organise training seminars for senior national police officers, should have its own headquarters rather than being attached to europol, the european police cooperation office in the hague, whose services are praised by everyone for their efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the discharge decision for the financial year 2009: the court of auditors again expressed reservations on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the accounts for the financial year 2009. the court found in particular serious shortcomings in respect of compliance with the financial regulations on public procurement and the rules governing expenditure on the organisation of courses. the report notes that payment appropriations, representing 43% of the total budget, were carried over to 2010, which is contrary to the principle of annuality. we want the agency to inform parliament of the actions and improvements undertaken and to ask the court of auditors to carry out a specific audit on the implementation of the cepol action plan. i propose, with my colleagues, that cepol be merged with europol in the hague. i have doubts about the ability of the college to solve the structural problems associated with the agency's small size, the location of the secretariat in bramshill (70km from london) and the high management costs.
in writing. the vote on the 2009 discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) allowed our parliament to validate the good management of this agency and the use of its appropriations in line with its objectives. i welcome this vote, which reaffirms the commitment of our assembly to this agency, which plays a decisive role in the monitoring and control of european seas. as the pressures on maritime space increase, it is our duty to be extremely vigilant in its use. as such, i particularly welcome the fact that the proposals in my 2008 report on port state control have become core principles of the work of the agency, in particular with regard to ship inspections and the coordination between the different national control systems by the agency. the sea is a common space for all europeans and part of our heritage. it is by promoting the exchange of good practice, by continuing to fight against pollution and illegal activities at sea and by preventing accidents that we can make sustainable use of the growth potential of the sea.
in writing. while the budget for euratom is €5.5 billion compared to €1.2 billion for renewable energies, in principle i do not wish to give up on the management of euratom. it is high time that the trend was reversed, which is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. the vote on this discharge definitively approves the increase in the expenditure of the community agency frontex, to carry out its mission of controlling our external borders. this significant increase in the budget between 2006 and 2009 was necessary and legitimate. it corresponds to a need to strengthen coordination between member states in the fight against illegal immigration. as a symbol of the union's migration policy, the frontex agency must ensure that its budget is devoted to concrete actions to regulate migration flows. i therefore welcome the introduction of a performance management system which ensures better visibility of the agency's actions. the results-based system facilitates the comparison of activities over time and thus their evaluation. this positive vote is also, in my view, a strong political message from the european parliament in favour of the european immigration policy developed under the french presidency of the union. border security, which was once the prerogative of the member states, is now ensured at european level. this common border management is an indispensable safeguard for the full exercise of one of the union's fundamental freedoms: the free movement of persons within the schengen area.
in writing. stigmatization and incitement to hatred on the grounds of religious affiliation are considered crimes in france and the situation is similar to a flagrant crime. mr gollnisch has publicly taken a stand in support of a scandalous communiqué. this statement equates muslims with burglars. he speaks of "the invasion (and) destruction of our culture and values by (the) islam". he can present his defence. taking away his immunity allows it. i therefore vote against his request to be granted parliamentary immunity.
in writing. in my long parliamentary experience both in the french national assembly and in the european parliament (27 years), i can say that the latter's attitude in lifting mr gollnisch's parliamentary immunity was particularly odious. the member was not allowed to speak in his defence before his colleagues, who did not bother to inquire into the facts of the case. if they had done so, they would have learned that mr gollnisch had only indirect responsibility in this case and that it fell within the realm of freedom of political expression. it is one thing to teach lessons in democracy and respect for human rights, but it is quite another to respect them in one's own institution.
in writing. seeking to prevent members of parliament from expressing their views on matters of legitimate public interest and concern and from criticising their political opponents through judicial procedure is unacceptable in a democratic society and constitutes a violation of article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union which aims to protect the freedom of expression of its members.' i agree with that statement. but for mr rapkay, it only applies to mr de magistris, who is being prosecuted for defamation, and not to bruno gollnisch, who is being prosecuted for expressing political opinions. there are two weights, two measures. why is it in the public interest and in the interests of democracy to know what mr de magistris thinks of one of his colleagues rather than what the front national thinks of the romans riots or the evils of mass immigration? it is precisely because the statement in question did not please his opponents, but was of the greatest interest to the public, that bruno gollnisch loses his immunity. the freedom of expression of the elected representatives of this parliament is neither variable geometry nor customer-oriented! you're disrespecting yourself by adopting this report!
in writing. stigmatization and incitement to hatred on the grounds of religious affiliation are considered crimes in france and the situation is similar to a flagrant crime. mr gollnisch has publicly taken a stand in support of a scandalous communiqué. this statement equates muslims with burglars. he speaks of "the invasion (and) destruction of our culture and values by (islam)". he can present his defence. taking away his immunity allows it. i therefore vote for the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. the success rate of recovery of outstanding debts is remarkably low. the disappearance of the debtor's assets abroad has become a pressing problem for many creditors. a regulation providing for independent remedies for the imposition of provisional measures before, during and after the main proceedings will be a major step forward for european citizens in the fight against these dishonest debtors. european citizens, most of whom are employed, are too often involved in insolvency proceedings in times of economic crisis because of the bankruptcy of the company in which they work. as the fictitious rapporteur on mrs girling's draft opinion on insolvency proceedings, i felt it was necessary for employees to be able to benefit from harmonised and increased legal protection, more legal certainty and, above all, effective remedies. i propose that when main insolvency proceedings are opened against a debtor employer, the trustee be allowed, within a period of six months, to order retrospectively the safeguarding of assets in the event that a company has moved its capital.
in writing. i voted for the arlene mccarthy report, which calls on the commission to propose a european mechanism for the freezing of debtors' assets and a mechanism on the transparency of debtors' assets. those two instruments should constitute independent remedies in addition to those provided for by national law.
in writing. late payments and defaults are detrimental to businesses and consumers alike. even where a judgment has been given, in practice it is often difficult for creditors to recover debts if no information is available on the debtor's location or assets. this is all the more so where the debtor is domiciled in another member state. currently, the number of cross-border debt recovery is particularly low, and the cost of cross-border debt recovery can be prohibitive and discourage the pursuit of legal action. the time has come to simplify and speed up the recovery procedure. in order to improve the recovery of claims within the european union, and thus better protect consumers and encourage trade between member states, the commission will have to propose new laws on the freezing and transparency of the debtor's assets.
in writing. this text raises the problem of guaranteeing the repayment of bank loans. banks are given preferential interest rates to ensure their profits. but they continue to charge excessively high interest rates on the debts of governments and citizens. the urgent need is to rescue the citizens and the states that are victims of the banks. not the other way around. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the vote on the european commission's discharge for the 2009 financial year took place in a very specific political context. the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework after 2013 will be marked by a revision of the financial regulation. it was therefore an opportunity for parliament to give new impetus and dynamism to a procedure which was sometimes taken lightly. parliament approved the european commission's budgetary expenditure for 2009 after obtaining commitments to give more responsibility to member states and to improve the control of european funds expenditure by national authorities. better management and more effective control systems are needed. in future, national political authorities will have to account for how european funds have been spent in their country by signing national management declarations. the financial crisis currently affecting europe is also having an impact on the eu budget. we cannot tolerate scandal or mismanagement of funds.
in writing. i voted for this discharge. the operating budget of the european parliament is, in my view, respectful of the financial context. several remarks to further increase transparency are in the right direction. finally, i believe that the european parliament's distribution of prizes is justified, particularly in support of european cinema. the amounts in question are rather symbolic.
in writing. in the current economic climate, the european parliament must set an example in reducing costs. as part of the cost-saving measures, it was decided that working party meetings would be systematically provided with an interpretation service limited to six languages (english, french, german, polish, spanish and italian), the other languages being available only on request of members. other requirements include rules to limit the long distance travel of parliament's official cars. the resolution also calls for a long-term review of parliament's budget with a view to reducing costs. the vote also gave rise to a new debate on the location of the european parliament's seat. however, this situation refers to historical references and legal texts which cannot be called into question by often erroneous attacks on the costs or damage of the dispersion of the european parliament's premises. the question of strasbourg or brussels does not arise here, since according to the treaties which historically founded our union, strasbourg is the rule and brussels the exception.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion on the proper implementation of the community budget by the various agencies and institutions responsible for it. the amounts allocated are allocated for a specific purpose, and the purpose of the discharge procedure is to verify ex post facto that this purpose is being met. this is an important prerogative of parliament, which was for example the reason for the resignation of the santer commission in 1999. this year, i refused, with the overwhelming majority of meps, to give the council of ministers discharge for its work in 2009. the institutions whose activities are monitored by parliament, through the committee on budgetary control, of which i am a member, are obliged to cooperate with parliament, in particular by providing it with all the documents necessary to verify the proper use of public funds. it is true that the council's cooperation in this case was quite inadequate. that is why we have decided to postpone the discharge until next autumn, in order to carry out the checks which budgetary transparency requires.
in writing. in the absence of sufficient guarantees as to the independence of the experts engaged for the scientific evaluation of medicinal products for human use, we have decided to postpone the discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009 this issue of independence concerns in particular the evaluation of the anorexigenic benfluorex mediator active ingredient which could have suffered from possible conflicts of interest. but it is estimated that this drug caused the deaths of between 500 and 2,000 people and caused serious heart damage in thousands more. this case reveals a certain bankruptcy of the expertise and raises the question of the competence and independence of the experts at the time of the risk society. this is why we must be very vigilant. that's why we refused our white-seating.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion on the proper implementation of the community budget by the various agencies and institutions responsible for it. the amounts allocated are allocated for a specific purpose, and the purpose of the discharge procedure is to verify ex post facto that this purpose is being met. this is an important prerogative of parliament, which was for example the reason for the resignation of the santer commission in 1999. this year, the other meps and i, in our overwhelming majority, refused to give the discharge to the european medicines agency for its work in 2009. the independence of the experts hired to carry out the scientific evaluation of medicinal products for human use has not been adequately guaranteed. for example, the evaluation of the anorexigenic benfluorex raises the question of possible conflicts of interest. the procurement procedures and the lack of criteria for the recruitment of agency staff have also attracted criticism. while the mediator scandal is pushing us to be more cautious in the marketing of medicines, the serious dysfunctions of the european medicines agency must be punished.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the discharge decision for the financial year 2009: the court of auditors expressed reservations on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the accounts for the financial year 2009. the court notes in particular that significant appropriations were deferred and cancelled, 38% of the budget for buildings, equipment and operating expenditure was deferred to 2010. 14.8 million of the carried-over appropriations were for actions which had not yet been implemented (or in some cases for undelivered goods) at the end of the year, which is not in accordance with the budgetary principle of annuality. the court notes weaknesses in the management of fees with significant delays in recovery orders (up to 21 months), weaknesses in the agency's cash policy and shortcomings in the management of procurement procedures. the report notes that of the 32 recommendations made by the internal audit service (ias), one, on the implementation procedures for experts, is considered 'critical' and 12 mainly on human resources management and management of conflicts of interest involving staff are considered 'very important'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the stavrakakis report which proposes to postpone the decision on discharge for the european medicines agency (emea) for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors expressed doubts as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts for the financial year 2009. i think that the members need more information before they propose to the house whether or not to grant discharge to this agency. a hearing by the emea is planned for mid-july.
in writing. our parliament has approved the implementation of the 2009 budget for iter, a scientific project of international importance and of future significance. i welcome this vote which contradicts the unnecessary polemics about the viability of this unique enterprise in the world. our assembly has pointed out the problems and delays inherent in the start-up phase and called for an improvement in internal auditing. i see this as an encouraging signal to ensure the sustainability and success of this enterprise involving the world's major powers. i voted to reaffirm my confidence in this scientific adventure, which is extremely ambitious and which is expected to bring considerable benefits. fusion is intended to provide mankind with clean, inexhaustible and safe energy. it will help us to combat global warming and to achieve energy independence. the means employed must be appropriate to the challenges and i would like to make a pedagogical point by explaining that the volume of the budget allocated and the delays observed are linked to the technical and organisational complexity of this unprecedented project. it is up to the eu to preserve its image by strengthening its commitment to iter and by demanding the same efforts from its partners.
in writing. following the devastating floods in pakistan in 2010, the european council called for emergency measures to support pakistan. i tabled an amendment rejecting the commission's proposed regulation because such trade preferences are a wrong idea. the response to a humanitarian crisis cannot be commercial, especially as we are one year after the disaster and the emergency is no longer there. such support is perverse and biased, because it is tantamount to making a few people in europe, the textile sector of several countries in the south in particular, pay for solidarity with pakistan which we should all be collectively responsible for. and by targeting only a few sectors of activity, we are not helping all pakistanis.
in writing. following the severe floods in pakistan in the summer of 2010, the european union wanted to provide assistance through exceptional trade preferences. while the objective of this approach is commendable, one can, however, question its real usefulness, and ask whether this economic aid will actually reach pakistanis, and in particular small producers and farmers, who are particularly affected by these floods. the commission's trade aid proposal follows a special procedure: it must be approved by the european parliament and also by the wto, since these trade preferences are contrary to the basic rules of international trade. parliament has just given its consent to the commission to continue negotiations with the wto, but has insisted on limiting the duration and scope of the negotiations. one can ask why this slow and cumbersome aid procedure was chosen rather than supporting other, faster and more effective actions of aid that could have already reached pakistan.
in writing. there were severe floods in pakistan last year. the commission's idea for financing reconstruction was to open up the union's territory to imports of textiles and other sensitive products, free of customs duties and, for the most part, quotas. and all this without regard for the danger to european firms of this new unbalanced competition. that alone would not have been sufficient to justify a negative vote on this report. the assembly refused to reject this text, even though it introduced a clause allowing the special trade agreement to be terminated if it turned out that pakistan was providing support for terrorist organizations. she simply postponed the final vote. it seems necessary, once and for all, to remove the remaining ambiguities as to the real attitude of the pakistani authorities, whether it be in terms of harbouring terrorists, aid to the taliban, especially in tribal areas, or anti-christian persecutions.
in writing. this report makes it possible to make aid to an already devastated country conditional on the country's commitment to abandon all forms of trade protectionism. leonine report. i am voting against this text.
in writing. since the lisbon treaty, investment has been an exclusive competence of the eu. parliament therefore first of all gave its opinion on the outline of the future european investment policy. this is the report i produced, which was voted on in the april 2011 plenary session. secondly, parliament considered the transitional provisions for managing all investment agreements already concluded between member states and third countries. this is mr schlyter's report. as in the vote in committee, i defended a community view, considering that existing agreements should be carefully examined by the commission to verify their compatibility with the treaties, community law and the union's policies, in particular the objectives of the union's external action in favour of sustainable development. but it was a right-wing vision that won out, preferring to privilege the protection of private investors to the detriment of these objectives of general interest. the negotiations which are now about to begin with the council are unfortunately unlikely to correct the situation in a union where the community interest is rarely opposed to national selfishness.
in writing. the report prohibits member states from negotiating and even maintaining bilateral investment agreements with a third country if they are contrary to the views of the european commission. national sovereignty is thus abolished in this area. this is what the lisbon treaty is leading us to: to ban all forms of bilateral investment in solidarity and to give all power to an unelected commission. i vote against it.
in writing. the eu has found a new mission. it now enforces the imf's social security contributions through the european financial stability fund within the euro area, or even the eu, through macro-financial assistance (mfa) outside the eu. in georgia, the imf announced that it would not extend its "aid". the imf's austerity plan is therefore no longer applicable. with this mfa, the eu obliges georgia to continue to implement this plan in spite of everything. that's not acceptable. i vote against it.
mr president, i would like to comment on point 16 of this minutes, which rightly points out that i asked for a debate to be opened on the lifting of my parliamentary immunity, which you refused. this therefore contradicts what was said earlier by the president-in-office, mrs angelilli, who claimed that i had the floor yesterday on the lifting of my parliamentary immunity, which is not true. this parliament has therefore deprived one of its members of essential protection, without anyone being allowed to speak on the subject in plenary, either the member concerned or those who might have defended him, either in debate or in explanation of vote or in any other capacity. i just wanted to be acknowledged and thank you for that.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing i do not understand. we are told that 25,000 tunisians are coming to europe and we are told about insecurity! what insecurity? it's true that there have been some incredible events in tunisia and egypt, and in libya, there's a war. i remind you that when there was the war in bosnia, we issued temporary permits for as long as there was war. germany took several hundred thousand. it existed and germany still exists. she hasn't sunk yet. this whole sinking ship thing is propaganda. and now we're being told about criminals, about the mafia! as if the criminals and the mafia were coming to lampedusa! they don't need lampedusa, the criminals. they come back as normal, you don't see them and they're in our country. so stop telling us stories. the problem is simple. today, in north africa, people are fleeing. well, let there be a sharing of solidarity in europe. 25 out of 400 million, you're not going to tell me that's a big deal! and i'll tell you what. it touches me because how many jews have we rejected? the british, the americans, all the countries, when they left, because they said there were too many jews. that was in '39-'40. that was europe. england was like that, turning jews away. the united states refused. the ship was called the st. louis. i'm tired of people always being seen as the problem when they're in trouble. the problem is not them, it's us, it's our inability to be united. it's our inability to open up. (applause) commissioners, madam president-in-office, do you know what happened in paris? in paris, young tunisians with italian driving licenses heard the french police say to them: "do you know what they are doing with your driving license?" that is european law today. a national police force that, to people with italian driving licences, says: "mr sarkozy has decided that it doesn't matter". if that is the law in europe, i say we have made a mistake and that is why i am asking you here to stop telling us that the problems in north africa are a security problem. the problem in north africa, the problem of the war in libya, they raise the problem of the insecurity of the people who live there. so let's distribute the refugees, give them power with a temporary permit until things can calm down, a temporary permit spread throughout europe. i believe that today, by accepting this debate on schengen, by accepting the populist pressures, by accepting racism, border control, if we do it, will be a face check. no, mr. schulz, no one has arrested you! no, mr. verhofstadt, no one has arrested you! i don't want to either! but all the guys who are tan, who are different, they're gonna get checked out. and we're going to make a europe to the map. white people are coming home, tan people are not coming home! well, that is the europe we want to fight. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we are indeed faced with a surreal debate. the free movement of people in europe should be reviewed and national borders re-established to deal with the flows of migrants that have been pouring into europe since the tunisian revolution. if the consequences of these gestures were not so dramatic and far removed from reality, we might laugh. but more than 1,150 people have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of 2011. 23,000 tunisians have arrived in italy. meanwhile, more than 700 000 people have fled libya for refuge in neighbouring countries and have been given a different welcome than europe would have given them. sarkozy and berlusconi are promoting short-sighted electoral interests, manipulating fears and making it look like an invasion. you fucking whore! when will europe stop contradicting its words and deeds? what are we having today? beyond words, yield to populist pressures, strengthen frontex again and again, continue building the fortress europe. borders have never stopped anyone, not in the darkest hours of our history, but now. is there not another message to be conveyed to the nascent democracies on the other side of the mediterranean? the union has for years given dictators a helping hand in defiance of its values. isn't it time she opened her eyes? i think you do. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would like to address the commission and my colleagues, and i welcome the presence of the council. the question that arises today arises from the management of the schengen area in 2011. this is no longer the area of the five member states of the 1980s, but rather an area which has been constantly expanding in recent years and which now comprises 25 states, three of which are not members of the european union. like all european policies, schengen cooperation must therefore adapt to the reality it is facing today, which is not the same as it was ten years ago. this is the way to read the proposals of the italian and french governments and the pragmatic and necessary answers given today by the commission in its communication on immigration. mutual trust between the schengen states is certainly the cornerstone of schengen cooperation. but that trust is based on mutual obligations. if one party breaches its obligations and creates air calls, the whole system fails. it must therefore be possible for other states to respond to this failure by re-establishing temporary and strictly controlled control of their frontiers. in doing so, these failing states will be clearly called upon to control their external borders more closely. in addition, these measures, as presented by the commission, would be fully in keeping with the spirit of schengen in that these controls would be reintroduced as a last resort and the decision would be taken at european rather than intergovernmental level. such measures will be intrinsically linked to the set of measures envisaged in the long term with a view to a common migration policy. it is essential to strengthen frontex, to provide for more solidarity and, finally, to support the states at the external borders. the situation in the mediterranean in recent years only highlights a shortcoming in the schengen acquis. within weeks, migrants from the mediterranean countries accounted for a significant percentage of france's annual immigration. this acquis is not static but must, on the contrary, evolve. i hope that this proposal will be adopted quickly in order to ensure that our schengen area is managed better as soon as possible and thus to ensure the security of our common external borders.
madam president, in these major debates on migration, we must at all costs avoid falling into the trap of opportunistic statements by mr sarkozy and mr berlusconi on the schengen agreements. europe, the migration flows are comfortable punching balls for some european governments who try to hide their economic and social failures at the national level by running after the populist theses of the far right. today, to attack free movement, a tangible success of the european construction, is a manipulation and a danger. on the one hand, commentators tell us that the commission has given france and italy the benefit of the doubt. today, mr barroso tells us that he does not want to justify the populist member states. what's the truth in all this? the communication of 4 may does not only speak of the reintroduction of internal border controls, it also touches on many other subjects: the fight against human trafficking, legal immigration, the resettlement of refugees, asylum... these are the real issues! the problem is, she's always halfway there. mrs malmström, you seem to want to bring back a community approach, and that is fundamental. i said shit! let us make more europe, let us make more integration where member states are tempted to defend only their own particular interests. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be to welcome the initiative of my colleague and friend, mr bogusław sonik, to put this oral question on nuclear safety 25 years after the chernobyl disaster. this is the worst accident in the history of civilian nuclear power. we must learn from the disasters that have occurred in the nuclear industry. i'll give you four. the first is that we must guarantee the citizens the highest levels of security, of safety. the european union must have the best standards in the world and influence international bodies so that, in the context of the global governance that is beginning, the planet and its inhabitants can be assured of the best safety standards in line with the developments in man's scientific genius. we must also stop all commercialisation of low-cost nuclear power stations. the second is that the public sphere, in particular the european union and its member states, and the nuclear operators must have an ethic of behaviour aimed at full transparency on nuclear activities. citizens have a degree of acceptance of scientific risk but only if they can measure it. only an ethic of transparency with heavy penalties for non-compliance is the answer to this concern. the third is that all security costs must be included in the cost price of energy, and if we have to provision all costs, force provisioning of these costs, we have to legislate to make equity levels mandatory. finally, we must ensure the training of nuclear engineers and accelerate scientific research programmes, and i welcome the extension of euratom's seventh fp7 for the years 2012 and 2013.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to assure you that your suggestions and demands on chernobyl, including research, will be further examined by us and incorporated into the final and next steps. we will also do everything possible to ensure that the community of states, with the participation of the european union, fully finances the necessary technical measures. i thank you in general for a very constructive debate, which included the question of what follows fukushima. we have a meeting after this meeting with the coordinators of the relevant parliamentary committees, and i would like to tell you what is going on. first of all, with the stress test, we're entering new territory. you know that. there has never been a european-level review process for nuclear power stations. i think that is essential and also groundbreaking. secondly, if you take the lisbon treaty, which you helped to draft, you have to realize that the decision on the energy mix was and is the responsibility of the member states, the countries in which you are based. that is why the decision on coal, nuclear power, gas and renewable energy was and is largely a matter for the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings is a very good one. we have 14 nuclear-powered member states, we have 13 non-nuclear-powered member states. in poland, a very european country, the decision on two nuclear power stations is imminent. in italy, the search for a location has been suspended. you have proposed that we should have a european regulator. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i'll take all of it! i'm the only one who's got to follow the law. there is no european nuclear watchdog yet. it is not provided for in the treaty of lisbon, the euratom treaty or the commission's establishment plan. you know that as well as i do. the stress test is important to me. it is a mandate from the european council and it is intended to set the highest standards of safety as a benchmark. the important meeting between the european regulators with ensreg and the commission will take place on thursday. the first is that the stress test is not a test of the quality of the work, but of the quality of the work. there's no stress test yet. the criteria for the examination will be drawn up on thursday. what we have is a proposal from an association to which the commission does not belong. the association of western european nuclear regulators did the preparatory work in april, as it is their right. what happens is our business. wenra has used its expertise without any involvement of the commission and has concluded in a circular procedure, in a circular decision, that human error and human causes should not be taken into account. i think that is insufficient. i therefore propose that the commission should, starting tomorrow evening, make a statement to all 27 nuclear regulators on the basis of a thorough preliminary study, and that we should take a comprehensive view of all risks, whatever their origin. this is true of natural causes, such as earthquakes, flood hazards, cold or heat, and it is true of human causes, whether failure or misfortune or whether intent and crime. terrorist threats, cyber attacks, plane crashes, that's all part of it for me. i believe that the european public is interested in this. and the debate today has shown me - and i am grateful for this back wind - that there is a broad interest on the part of all the parties in the european parliament in this test, in these test criteria which must involve people. by the way, it's not so clear whether fukushima was caused by nature or man. i argue that it was originally a natural disaster - earthquakes and floods - but in the management of risk, in the mitigation and prevention of damage, man came along with his strengths and weaknesses. human weaknesses have also played a role in japan up to the present time. i shall be happy to report back to you on the next steps after thursday. but, you know, i need the approval of the european commission -- i have it -- and the national regulators -- i want it. but i must get the approval of each national regulator on the test criteria of the stress test, including those of the very competent and esteemed colleagues in paris, london, madrid or brussels, where the opinion is not yet complete, but where the transfer to the european level is only to a limited extent to be achieved. i also promise you transparency. we must learn from chernobyl the lesson of complete transparency. i would like to ask you to be transparent about how the negotiations in brussels on wednesday evening and thursday went, what came out, and i would like to say to you in conclusion that if there is no agreement between the commission and ensreg, then perhaps we will give the mandate back to the european council. a stress test light won't have my signature on it! (applause from the centre)
in writing. the continuing worrying situation in japan and the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant after the earthquake and tsunami of 11 march 2011, as well as the 25th anniversary of the chernobyl nuclear disaster in ukraine on 26 april 1986, put european leaders before their responsibility for nuclear safety in europe. this is why the member states must take all the necessary measures to guarantee and maintain the highest possible level of safety for european power stations and protection for citizens. but we must keep our heads cool in the face of the present and future energy challenge. in this context, nuclear energy cannot be ignored as a low-carbon system. the challenge is to strike a balance between the development of nuclear energy and the means of preventing the risks involved in its production and of combating the consequences of nuclear accidents.
mr president, in 2005 the abolition of textile quotas opened the eu wide to all dumping. this has been catastrophic for jobs, for the environment and, despite appearances, it is catastrophic in the long run for consumer health. it is high time that measures were put in place to protect and develop employment, to promote the know-how of textile workers and the health of consumers. although we would have liked to go further, we approve the proposals made to us concerning the marking of origin, the study of dangerous substances, the compulsory indication of the fibre composition of textiles. it is still necessary to provide the means for the implementation of this protection and information in all member states and to take action against violators. yes, we must have the means to fight against counterfeiting, for example at the union's borders, but also at the very heart of the internal market. it's a matter of political will. it is clear that, unfortunately, more resources are being spent on tracking down tunisians at the french-italian border than on combating the sale of counterfeits. i am sure that in europe, if we refer to this reality, it is better to be a commodity than a human being. that's what needs to change.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, you have just admitted that last year's tests did not have the desired effect. the same design and implementation errors should be avoided. the fields of investigation must be consistent and similar. there will be no sanitation if there is no proper diagnosis. governments must be aware of this. the tests, of course, must be realistic. the information you have just given us, which is particularly precise, is likely to answer our questions. it is now up to the eba, in monitoring and reviewing the findings of these tests, to provide initial evidence of its effectiveness. the tests should make it possible to better define the possible needs of banks for recapitalisation and to take the measures you have just mentioned. but conducting credible stress tests is the best way to calm financial markets and limit the influence of rating agencies and the negative effects of their decisions on our economy as a whole. the credibility of the results of these tests is likely to end or at least reduce dependence on these agencies. the supervisory authorities have no choice but to ensure that the tests are successful, i.e. that they are conclusive. i would like to take this opportunity, commissioner, to draw your attention to the fact - which i consider to be a serious matter - that the legislation on credit rating agencies, which has now entered into force, is not being applied and that the authorities with which these agencies have filed their case have taken no action to investigate applications for authorisation. we had planned a transitional period until esma came in, and now we are acting as if nothing had happened.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, a lot has been said about methodology. you answered in detail. i would just like to make a small comment on what will happen after the stress tests, echoing a little what jean-paul gauzès said, that is, that we should not take pleasure in adopting legislation, but we should also respect it. i see these tests as complementary to the economic governance package. we can do whatever we want on sovereign debt, but if we don't clean up the banking sector, we're not going to do it. i simply wanted to draw your attention to what is going to happen and to what these so-called backstop measures will be, as we say in plain french, so that, at the end of the stress tests, we can take action. and i wanted to draw your attention to what happened at the hearing with mervyn king and andrea enria, whose very determined action we applaud. they came to us as vice-chairmen of the european systemic risk committee and we were pleased to hear, from mervyn king in particular - it was quite amusing, if you remember the negotiations last year, commissioner - that the safeguard clauses, which the member states were happy to add to the package that the commission had made, would not prevent them from complying with the indications given by the eba in terms of recapitalisation. i just wanted to bring this little item to your attention. from a systemic point of view, the systemic risk committee itself considers this to be important, and i believe that if the quality of the work done by the eba with your support, with the monitoring of the systemic risk committee, leads to us happily burying those absolutely senseless safeguard clauses that the member states wanted to put in the supervisory package, we will have taken a step forward. so i hope that the commission, with the committee, will really be keen to see that there are concrete measures taken by the states, large and small. spain is setting an example of a certain kind of work, and we hope that others will follow.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this will be the first of three contributions that i will make to honourable members this morning, so i want to start by giving you my vision of the issues that face us and also to try and touch upon some of the detail of the issues that honourable members have added to this debate, knowing the importance that you attach to them. let me begin. there are storms blowing across the countries we call our neighbours – arab spring, winds of change, whatever imagery we use. none of us in this house know where it will end and what that end will bring. aspirations are high and expectations too that the revolutions will have been worth the blood that has been spilt, worth the turmoil and fear, worth the economic havoc in a world already grappling with the worst economic problems for decades. the uprisings across north africa and the arab world pose great challenges for europe, but also opportunities we cannot afford to miss. two principles have to underpin what we do. the first is that we in europe know how long and painful the journey towards liberty can be. our own path to 20th century liberal democracy was a very slow one. the european union itself was born in the ashes of conflicts that remind us how terrible life can be when democracy breaks down. add into that the mixed record of europe’s empires and some humility is in order, even as we assert that democracy is the necessary foundation of human progress. second, democracy is of course about votes and elections – but it is also about far more than that. what we have learnt in europe the hard way is that we need deep democracy: respect for the rule of law, freedom of speech, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary and impartial administration. it requires enforceable property rights and free trade unions, and is not just about changing governments but about building the right institutions and the right attitudes. in the long run, surface democracy – democracy that floats on the top with people casting their votes freely on election day and choosing their government – will not survive if deep democracy fails to take root. but there is no certainty – not in the outcome in any country – and no quick fix or short-term solution that will create the world so many people want to see. meanwhile the spectre of religious intolerance casts its shadow – witness the recent events in egypt – finding its excuse in uncertain times to play on fear and to wreak destruction. freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right that must be protected everywhere. we need to condemn all those who seek to use religious belief as a means of oppression, and support those who advocate tolerance, whether in syria, in pakistan, in egypt or elsewhere. europe has choices to make too. when we look at our neighbourhood we have to be ready to rise to challenges that are being asked of us. i can make hundreds of statements – and i do. i deplore, i condemn, i urge, i demand, but we also need to act and that action has to come in different forms. let me mention sanctions. we impose sanctions against regimes that treat the lives of their citizens as worthless, with people killed at the hands of police or security services that they command. sanctions on syria were imposed yesterday – an embargo on arms, an asset freeze and a travel ban for 13 key individuals in the regime, the freezing of our association agreement and of our cooperation with syria. let us be blunt and clear, as i was with the foreign minister of syria yesterday. what is happening in syria is a popular aspiration for democracy and the rule of law – it is not some foreign plot. by failing to see what it is, the regime loses its legitimacy and estranges itself from the people and from the international community. violent oppression and threats inside and outside are tools of an era that is long gone. our concern, in this house and in the european union, is with the people of deraa where the un has been refused access, in baniyas where the crack-down continues, in hama where the tanks have moved in. the syrian people will not bow to tanks. we say to the regime to change course, and to change course now. (applause) i said yesterday to minister moallem, the foreign minister of syria: you must allow immediate and unhindered access to humanitarian support and to the media. only then can your claims of support for peaceful protests be substantiated. in our eastern neighbourhood – in belarus – president lukashenko failed to use last december’s presidential elections to show his readiness for change and a more open and democratic, european society. not only did he not take this chance but, in using violence against peaceful demonstrators and multiplying the number of political prisoners, he has shown contempt for democracy and the rule of law. i met with the families of those who have been imprisoned and i know that he left us with no other option than to adopt strong sanctions in response, targeting those in the regime responsible for the crack-down, including president lukashenko himself. i also know that we should step up our support for civil society and for people-to-people contacts. then there is our direct engagement in camp ashraf. what happened on 8 april is deplorable and has, and had, my strongest condemnation. i have been adamant that we need a strong united eu response. i have written to the foreign minister of iraq and i spoke to him again yesterday. while i do not question iraq’s sovereignty over all its territory, it has a duty to protect the human rights of ashraf residents. i have condemned that violence and called for an inquiry – an inquiry that has to be as thorough as it is independent and that should tell us exactly what happened. but, as honourable members know from the letters i have received individually and collectively in this house and beyond, there is no simple solution here. several options for a long-term solution are being considered, with the united nations in the lead, all of them with challenges. i am very grateful for the work of this house, for the work of those who have travelled there and for the contributions i have received. we need to take this also to the foreign affairs council and we need to discuss this with the un high commissioner for refugees. our ambassador to iraq arrives today, and she knows the importance that i attach to this issue. we need to pursue and make sure that we find the correct course of action here, but the inquiry and the condemnation are absolute. in yemen too, the gulf cooperation council has put forward its proposals and president saleh has once again hesitated. i spoke to him not long ago. we talked about the discussions he had had with the opposition and the proposals on the table. i told him that he knew what he had to do – in the interests of his country – and that he should do it. in my meetings in the gulf, i met with the king of bahrain. we discussed the initiative there for the dialogue without preconditions that the crown prince has put forward, and i urged him to pursue that dialogue. the current course there is not the answer. we need to see fair and civil trials, if there are trials in bahrain, and that the death penalty is avoided in all circumstances. in all of these cases, it is about the direct engagement that we have and the pressure that we apply and the directness of our approach. be under no illusion: we are very clear, i am very clear, with all of the leaders i speak to about what i believe needs to happen, and i do so with the support of this house and with the support of the foreign affairs council of the 27 member states. of course i want to talk about libya. there are members of this house who wish we had a stronger defence and security policy. i say to them this: in the last few weeks and months we have seen how far we have come in some ways, but also how far we still have to go. we did engage together to plan the military support for humanitarian needs: ready at the request of the united nations to support the people with resources from across europe. just as we did when the terrible earthquake struck in haiti – military hospital ships, heavy lifting equipment, civilians and military working side by side in that case. do not misunderstand: i know that humanitarian aid is apolitical and that humanitarian workers must not be put at risk but, in the primary objective of saving lives, sometimes it is only the military who have the equipment or people to achieve that – delivering aid at speed, putting in place the infrastructure – and that is why, should a un request arrive, we will be ready to help. we need to get faster and smarter in how we do this. i am the first person to say and admit that there is much more we need to do, and i will talk more of that later on this morning. we are improving our collaboration with nato, sharing details of our operations for the first time as part of continuing to develop our relations. last friday, i co-chaired with secretary-general rasmussen the meeting of the psc committee and the north atlantic council in our first ever discussion on libya. there is also our collaboration with the african union with president jean ping, and the arab league with amr moussa and of course his successor, and with the organisation of the islamic conference and professor insanoglu, under the leadership of the un special envoy, al-khatib. it was in my discussions with ban ki-moon that we agreed to bring together the regional organisations for a meeting in cairo and to follow up after the contact group meeting in rome. we are discussing together how to play our part in the future of libya – to support the national dialogue, to help with the constitution and to prepare for elections. i have sent two missions to libya to meet with and work with young people and with the women in libya. as the leader of my team said to me, it is the first time that they have ever discussed a constitution – words and arguments they have never known before. they talked of how they longed for the end of the regime, so let us also be clear: gaddaffi must go from power and must end his regime. (applause)i intend to open an office in benghazi so that we can move forward on the support we have discussed with the people(applause)to support civil society, to support the interim transitional national council and mr jibril (we have had many meetings with him); to support security sector reform; to build on what the people told us that they wanted. they want help with education, with health care, with security on the borders, with the kind of support that we are able to give and want to give them. and with all that we do, the silver thread of human rights runs through our work. then, there is the new neighbourhood policy – a different level of ambition and vision. mutual accountability is at its core: the eu and the neighbourhood are responsible to each other for delivering on the commitments that we make to the countries and to the people of our neighbourhood and to the people of europe. building on what we have already talked about are mobility, market access and money, or the ‘three ms’, as a simple way of describing it. some things are extremely important to support these countries into the future. one example is the mobility of young people. these are young societies where young people long for greater opportunities, and the european parliament has a big role to play in supporting those opportunities for young people to gain benefits and knowledge from europe. so too with member states: the opportunities to travel, to study. for businessmen and women, it is important to have the chance to explore new markets, to sell their goods and services, and they are in the gift of our member states, some of whom have long relationships with the countries concerned, but who now need to step up and provide those opportunities. on market access, we know that we have a genuine contribution to make to stimulate economic growth and the recovery. you know the effect of this turmoil on the economies of the countries we are describing. some of these countries rely on us as their major export market and the source of their imports. allowing those countries to develop their markets could make a real difference, supporting not just the opening of markets but how they gain access to them, ensuring that they can reach our standards, and ensuring that they have real opportunities. nowhere is that more true than in small businesses, but we have to have the political will to do it. we have to have the political will to be committed to ensuring that we make our markets available. that is a challenge. it is a challenge in any circumstances; it is a challenge in economic times, but i would argue it is a challenge we have to rise to because, if we do not, then the failure of the economies in our neighbourhood will have a direct impact on us. then there is money, or rather resources. not just what we can do in direct support – although that is important – but what we can leverage. we have already hosted a meeting of senior officials from around the world and from the big financial institutions to discuss what we might be able to contribute if asked, and will, but in consultation with our neighbourhood we have to do more to support resources coming together more effectively. nowhere will this policy matter more perhaps than in tunisia. prime minister essebsi’s speech on television may help as the country moves towards elections on 24 july, but he acknowledged the problems of a country where economic growth rates are down to between 0 and 1%. we have to ensure support to tunisia, to its economy and its civil society, and that means thinking not just of the long term, not just of the importance of a new strategy, but of what we do now and how we support countries – egypt, tunisia and others – right now with the budgetary problems that they have. that is the reason we have started discussions with the financial institutions, with our member states, with those who are engaged in wanting to support these countries, because helping them deal with deficits when tourism has collapsed, when the economy is not working properly, matters right now. honourable members must understand that there is an immediate urgency and there is a long-term strategy, and we need to have both in what we do. on egypt: i have been there three times in recent weeks and i have spent a lot of time with some of the young leaders from tahrir square, and also meeting some of the women. the women in particular are looking for the stronger voice that they believe they have been promised in the future of egypt. i met one woman who will be a presidential candidate and who is determined to show that women have that role to play in egypt. i have talked with many government ministers, and let me give you the example of the planning minister, fayza aboulnaga. she wants to build houses for people; she has a big vision of what building a million houses over twenty years could mean for egypt. we need to take these big visions from countries with whom we are working and translate them into what it is that we can provide and support. so, integrating training and education, infrastructure around housing programmes, opportunities for small businesses to grow, working with un women – as i am – to consider how we build safer communities around the housing projects, how we work together to design a much bigger, grander vision that is built upon what the egyptian people want. i am talking to the foreign minister of egypt, al-araby, who is committed to working closely with us on the middle east peace process, keen to develop the strength of the relationship that we already have, and keen to see us as partners in collaborating in the region. there will be many challenges for egypt in the coming months and years. we have to be there to support them through each of those challenges and be willing to put our resources, our knowledge, our expertise and our contacts in favour of supporting them. i have always said in this house and beyond that the external action service is a force to prevent and resolve conflict, so let me just mention too that this is why our role in serbia and kosovo matters. it is why the vote that we won at the un, the voice that we now have, can play its part. it is why we have to engage the leaders in bosnia to get them to get their eyes off the floor, to get them from thinking only about their own communities to thinking about the needs of their country, and to see their future and to see the european union. it is why too we play a role in the middle east peace process. honourable members know well that stability in the middle east requires peace. the quest for a negotiated agreement has dominated the region for decades. we have brought new vigour to the quartet in recent months. i hosted a quartet principals meeting in february and the follow-up of the quartet envoys has been working with the israeli and palestinian negotiators for the very first time since the quartet was established. i wanted another principals meeting in april, and we have prepared a substantial statement based on our position. i continue to believe a negotiated solution is the way forward, and we will stay engaged and have another envoys meeting later this month. we too have been a strong supporter of palestinian state-building, so when the ad hoc liaison committee meeting was hosted by us on 13 april, i listened to the praise for the work of salam fayyad, for his remarkable achievements in governance, the rule of law and human rights, education, health and social protection – sufficient for a functioning government according to the world bank. i have acknowledged the importance of palestinian reconciliation behind president abbas as an opportunity and something that the european union has called for for years. what is happening now is the most serious effort so far to establish unity, which is in itself key to achieving the two-state solution. i have been in close contact with president abbas and prime minister fayyad, as well as with egypt, the arab league, the united states and with israel. non- violence, the continuation of state-building and abiding by existing commitments will be crucial, and we must judge this effort by its results. i do believe that israel should hand over the tax revenues owed to the palestinians, but i want to be clear that our position on hamas has not changed and israel’s security remains a key concern for all of us. i also want to say that i do not consider a flotilla to be the right response to the humanitarian situation in gaza. i have been there twice. i continue to highlight the plight of the people, especially asking for more access to enable the economy to start to develop. the situation there frankly, especially for the children, is awful. we have put forward proposals to israel to support that greater access. i want to see the people of gaza with a future, but i also want to see gilad shalit, captive for years in gaza, given the chance to go home to his mother and father whom i have already met. europe’s experience tells us that true democracy is the necessary foundation of tolerance, of peace and of prosperity. in north africa and the arab world, that destination will not be reached quickly or without setbacks, but building deep democracy is the only way that destination will be reached at all. we have the experience to help every country that asks us now to help them make that journey to democracy. it is why i am proposing to support the endowment for democracy which will enable us too to use our resources to support opportunities, particularly for young people, to engage in political life, to support the development of political parties, to enable people to do what honourable members in so many countries represented here had to do themselves – i.e. develop the political process by building those political parties, civil society, and deep roots that mean democracy flourishes and grows. i often say when i visit these countries that it is not about electing a government so much as the right to be able to throw a government out. democracy is about being able to say bye-bye as well as hello, and that is important: knowing that you have the right to use your ballot box, once, twice, three times, four times to change your government, to demand of your government, is critical, and you can only do that when democracy is deep and flourishing. it is why what we have seen happening in cote d’ivoire is so important, seeing president ouattara finally take his place, and the role we have played has been significant in supporting that process. it is why it is good to see the nigerian elections going well and goodluck jonathan now being appointed properly. it is good to see democracy begin to take hold and flourish and deepen, and that is what we have to support. change does not necessarily ensure progress, but progress absolutely requires change. that means we have to be more determined to act. some of the things i describe require member states to act, some require the commission to act, many need the support of this house and we have to decide that we will all play our part. if we only do it when the media’s attention is on those countries or on us, then we will fail. we must be in this for the long haul and we have to be determined in saying to our neighbours not just that they should start the journey towards democracy, but that they should complete it. there have been three excellent reports which i shall speak on in my next intervention, but i do want to thank the rapporteurs. i am going to end with a very small quote from an anthropologist, a woman i admire very much, margaret mead. she said: ‘never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.’
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam vice-president and high representative, dear catherine ashton, ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy is dominated by the more or less peaceful revolutions in several countries in our mediterranean neighbourhood, and more recently by a symbolic event in the fight against international terrorism, namely the end of the bin laden era. what is europe's place in all this? in this context, are we a present, committed, and good-will actor? yes, without a doubt, and the action taken under the auspices of the un in libya, on the initiative of a few european heads of state and government, has shown that, when it wants to, europe, or part of europe, is capable of acting in difficult times. but are we an indispensable international player with an influence equal to our economic power? the answer is probably no. europe has indeed remained a dwarf, at best a political and geostrategic thumbnail, despite the ever-increasing expectations of european public opinion. europe has bet on stability and development aid in the mediterranean. but the peoples are demanding - and rightly so - their political freedom and are fleeing their countries because they cannot hope for a viable and dignified future for themselves and their children. the humanitarian response we have been giving over the past few months is certainly helpful. madam vice-president, madam high representative, more needs to be done. have we begun to learn from this experience? i'd like to believe that. it's worse. the wave of migrants arriving on our shores in precarious conditions, dying at sea - and here too, we do not know enough about the number of deaths - our countries too often react by division, quarrels, closing borders, or even by calling into question an instrument of freedom of movement as essential as schengen. (applause) i would like to thank is all this worthy of europe, its values, its principles, its ideals? i don't think he did. my group, the epp, does not believe this, and i am sure that a majority of my colleagues in this house do not believe it either. ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we are debating this morning with the high representative is that we wanted to give europe a voice and a face with the lisbon treaty. it's time to get down to the real work. it means making choices, sticking to them. what are europe's priorities? relations with its eastern and southern neighbours? the fight against terrorism? the solution to the middle east conflict? all of it at once. it's not easy. who are our privileged partners? the united states, the emerging countries or others? how can we achieve better results? by leaving the political field to the individual member states, as has been the case for the last 60 years, or by speaking with one loud and single voice? ladies and gentlemen, on foreign affairs as on security and defence, the solution is not more intergovernmental, but more european. it is not more national egos, but more european efficiency. dear catherine ashton, we will only have a sound foreign and security policy if we put all our weight, all our energy into a few well-defined objectives. the year 2011 must be the year of the mediterranean, of the fight against terrorism, and perhaps of a breakthrough in the middle east conflict. if europe is able to become a key player on this front, it will have made its youthful mistakes forgotten. and i'll also end with a quote from a man you know well, these words of john paul ii. "do not be afraid", mrs ashton! there are four billion we have saved in our budget for europe. make proposals to use them instead of sending them back to the states. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you today, madam high representative, a few questions. firstly, on the syrian issue, and as guy verhofstadt has already asked, who is stopping europe from putting assad on the list? which country, which countries, are preventing the european union from taking the only possible decision today? but say it! if it is not possible because it is mr westerwelle, then say that it is mr westerwelle, so that at least we know where each other's policies are made. we are not going to say, as the german foreign ministry believes, that the solution to the problem of dictator assad is assad! if that's what they want us to believe, it's still incredible. there will be no solution in syria unless assad is removed from power in syria, and that is what europe's position should be. so it is clear that assad and his entire family must be put on the list, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but today. and if that is not possible because unanimity is needed, then we must say who is preventing this solution. we must say so publicly if there is to be a real debate in europe. secondly, who is preventing israel from paying the necessary taxes to the palestinians today, and how? yes, israel's security must be guaranteed, but israel's security cannot be guaranteed by the misery of the palestinians, that cannot be the solution. (applause) i would like to thank you. one last question, please. there were 600 deaths on the libyan coast a few days ago. there was a boat in the vicinity; they say it wasn't a nato ship, they say it wasn't the charles de gaulle, they say it was a maltese ship. i ask you, what was that ship and what information is available? who didn't fish for the 600 refugees leaving libya? i am not going to be told that in the 21st century we cannot know which ship it was, because this lack of action was a crime of not assisting people in danger.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the words you used in your first speech about your wish for the existence of a palestinian state after inter-palestinian reconciliation to be very important. this palestinian agreement is a political fact of the first order. and contrary to what was said here earlier, hamas has for the first time admitted the plo and the palestinian authority as negotiating partners. it accepts the 1967 borders and the quartet's conditions, including the rejection of violence. a transitional government to prepare for the elections is to be set up. the conditions are therefore in place for the recognition of the palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, at the united nations next september. beyond what you have just said, madam high representative, what new acts will the european union produce to recognise the palestinian state and to defend this idea at the united nations? on the other hand, can you tell us what initiatives you and the european union are planning to take to ensure that the israeli government returns the proceeds of taxes and levies to the palestinian authority? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
no, this flotilla is an act of european civil society to lift a totally unnecessary blockade. if the public authorities, the states and ourselves had enforced international law, we would not be here and the palestinians would not be living in a prison in gaza, as they have for too long.
mr president, madam high representative, the libyan crisis has unfortunately once again illustrated the difficulties of the european union in its diplomatic and military existence. it would be unfair, however, to attribute to you alone the lack of political will shown by the union, even though many of us think that more energetic initiatives could and should have been taken. it is also true that the member states bear a very large responsibility for this failure to build a coherent, effective and visible policy on this issue, even though our american friends were largely relying on europe to act. but beyond the libyan crisis, we must be aware of the major strategic developments which oblige us not to give up the ambition of a common security and defence policy, enshrined in the lisbon treaty and of which you, madam high representative, must be the inspirer, guarantor and spokesperson. the combination of unprecedented budgetary constraints on defence budgets, the multiplicity of international crises and the strategic redeployment of the united states are weighty factors that leave us no choice but to take our destiny into our own hands. in the face of all these crises and threats, we cannot simply leave the key to our american friends and allies and nato. for example, neither the americans nor nato were able to stop the russo-georgian war in 2008, nor can the americans or nato observe the ceasefire today. it is a european mission which has that full legitimacy. we see clearly in libya that it is not the united states that wants to be on the front line and that nato's minimalist commitment is not enough. madam high representative, the common security and defence policy is not only an achievement of the last 10 years, not only an ambition enshrined in the treaties, but it is also a strategic necessity, and you must be at the forefront of taking the necessary initiatives. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the european union has finally imposed sanctions on syria. but, unfortunately, it seems to do so with a trembling hand, carefully avoiding implicating the head of the syrian regime. this lack of determination and clarity is obviously interpreted by the protesters as a form of abandonment and, by the authorities, as an indulgence that allows them to intensify the repression. the repression is so brutal that it is hard to imagine that at the same time syria could be elected to the un human rights council, while the syrian authorities are refusing un observers access to the city of deraa, the scene of terrible violence against defenseless civilians. the council of ministers has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on the matter in due course. so, madam high representative, what diplomatic options do you envisage to avoid such a disaster?
i would remind our colleague on the left, mr murphy, that karl marx was in favour of free trade with india. and i would also remind our liberal colleagues, and particularly mr rohde, that if he was in favour of free trade, it was because of the destructive effects of free trade because, he said, no matter how much the british bourgeoisie is driven by base interests, indian society must be destroyed to hasten the coming of the world revolution. i think that we should not be dogmatic in this area. systematic free trade is not necessarily beneficial. it can be a good thing when the conditions of competition are equal. this is more or less the case in many areas with japan, but i recognize japan's right, for example, to protect the rice market, to protect its rice farmers, to give its producers a price above world prices and not to want massive imports which would completely destroy its farming industry, in the same way that i recognize our economies' right to protect certain sectors of their activity. that is why i did not vote for the majority resolution. i would have preferred other resolutions which i felt were more appropriate. the conditions of competition must be balanced, but in sectors which are clearly defined.
in writing. i voted for the manders report on the new labelling rules for textiles. i welcome the fact that parliament, in this second reading vote, has reintroduced a number of amendments despite the council's opposition. it is important that consumers are able to make informed purchases and do not buy leather or fur inadvertently, as is the case in particular when fur is used as a lining for cheap clothing. the text also stresses the need for the traceability of clothing manufacture and a study will be commissioned from the commission on the health consequences of the use of products such as synthetic fibres or dyes.
in writing. this report endorses the pressure that the european union is exerting on the balkan countries to serve its interests. it even instructed parliament to take, together with the council, 'appropriate measures' if the governments of these states did not show sufficient willingness to liberalize their economies. the arrogant imperialism! i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr hökmark's draft report, which supports the release of the 800 mhz band for mobile services by january 2013 and sets very ambitious targets, such as releasing 1200 mhz for mobile data traffic by 2015. the rapporteur also stresses the need for efficient use of spectrum, greater flexibility to promote innovation and investment, and the need to strengthen the inventory of existing and future uses of spectrum.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will, in the short term, make it possible to meet the exponential demand for high-frequency mobile internet access, in particular by making available to electronic communications services the entire 800mhz band freed up by the switchover to digital television in our various states. in the medium to long term, our aim should be to increase the efficiency of spectrum use in a transversal way, taking into account its social, cultural and economic value. at the same time, we are encouraging innovative technologies (femtocells, cognitive technologies) to meet the demand for frequencies in a qualitative way. this will contribute to the union's objectives, including closing the digital divide, so that all europeans have access to broadband by 2015.
in writing. one of the main objectives of the strategy is to ensure internet access throughout europe by 2013 and broadband coverage of at least 30 mbps for all europeans by 2020. many relatively isolated rural or island areas rely on wireless mobile internet connection to access broadband. to ensure uninterrupted communication, dedicated radio frequencies are required. the allocation of frequencies is a matter of national competence, but the rules for the sharing of spectrum between operators and users are a matter for the european union. universal access to broadband is largely a function of this sharing of frequencies. i voted for the report on spectrum policy because it lays the foundations for universal coverage of the mobile internet. on 1 january 2013, the 800 mhz frequency will be the frequency of mobile internet, providing high quality access to wireless users and thus reducing the digital divide. the project goes even further, with the allocation of a new frequency band of 1.5 to 2.3 ghz for 2015.
in writing. there has been a lot of talk in recent weeks about the role of lobbyists in the european parliament. since four members were accused of accepting money from 'fake' lobbyists in exchange for tabling amendments, the institution has embarked on a process of clarifying and reforming the rules governing lobbyists in parliament. the relationship between elected representatives of the european parliament and representatives of the interests has long been surrounded by a sort of permanent suspicion. this led to the creation of a first register of lobbyists in 1996. today it is this register, in which lobbyists will have to register, that is being reformed. registration is 'voluntary' but de facto compulsory, as only those who have registered will be able to enter parliament. i also welcome the adoption of the so-called 'legislative footprint': the idea of publishing the names of people we have met when writing a report seems to me to be a perfectly normal guarantee of transparency. it is regrettable, however, that the council, unlike the european commission, has not joined the initiative.
in writing. in view of the undeniable role that lobby groups, whether they represent private or public interests, play in european affairs, greater transparency on the relationship with our institution is essential. i think that their inclusion in the transparency register should be compulsory. i particularly support the idea of a 'legislative footprint', which will allow a list of lobbyists encountered by members of parliament during the legislative process. it is essential to do everything possible to restore or strengthen citizens' confidence in the functioning of the european institutions, and this register is leading us precisely in that direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is important to clarify matters, and this at a time when the role of lobbies still raises many questions and sometimes fantasies among european citizens. we regret, however, that the registration of organisations is not made compulsory, especially since the issuing of building access cards allows for compulsory registration 'in fact'. on the other hand, we have fought for the local, regional and municipal representative offices to the european institutions not to be affected by this measure, contrary to what was envisaged in the original text. we consider these structures to be the direct outgrowth of democratically elected entities. they represent the general interest and must therefore be distinguished from lobbyists who represent particular interests. nevertheless, this register is an important step forward, because in many areas the opacity of the role of lobbies can pose a real democratic problem.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the casini report on the establishment of a joint transparency register between the european parliament and the commission. the establishment of a public register in which lobbyists must register if they want access to these two institutions is a real democratic advance for the benefit of the citizens. the future obligation for rapporteurs to disclose the names of lobbies encountered is therefore a further step towards the full independence of the european parliament and will ensure a balanced representation of the interests of all european citizens.
in writing. it is commonly accepted that more than 15 000 lobbyists are active in brussels to try to influence the legislation adopted there, and this at all stages of the legislative process. although this activity has an extremely negative connotation in france, it is not totally illegitimate for commercial, social, trade union interest groups, etc., to assert their views and expertise, especially with less informed officials and elected officials. it is therefore logical that these lobbies and their representatives should be registered, and that their main sources of funding should also be listed, especially if they come from the european budget. this should be compulsory not only for these organisations but also for any group outside parliament, including those which are supposed to play a role under the treaties (trade unions, churches, philosophical associations, local authorities, etc.), including when they are made up, in whole or in part, of members of parliament, such as the efi, since they then act as interest groups and not as parliamentarians. the agreement we are voting on today does not go far enough in terms of transparency in this respect.
in writing. following recent events which have highlighted the possible deviations of lobbying, it has become all the more necessary to increase the transparency of the work of interest groups in the european institutions. merging the lists of lobbyists registered with the parliament and the european commission is a first step towards the comprehensive enumeration of all lobbies operating in brussels and thus towards greater access by citizens to democratic checks and balances in the decision-making process. i have fought, however, to ensure that the representative offices of local authorities in the european institutions are not affected by this measure. i consider these structures to be the direct outgrowth of democratically elected bodies (municipal, general, regional councils, etc.). they represent the general interest and must therefore be distinguished from lobbyists who represent particular interests. on the other hand, i hope that this register will one day be made compulsory and will include all lobbyists working for the european institutions: transparency is a key concept in the policy of the european union and it is essential to extend it to all the interest groups involved in its functioning.
in writing. more than 1700 organisations are accredited as interest groups in the european parliament, and 3900 in the commission. these organisations are so far listed in two separate registers for each institution. in 2008, parliament called for the pooling of these collections to make the census easier. an institutional agreement was reached between parliament and the european commission with the aim of establishing a common register. this agreement was awaiting ratification and was put to the vote of the european parliament. i voted in favour of this text because it will make the work of interest groups more transparent. the register is not yet compulsory under the act, but parliament will make it necessary for organisations wishing to have access to its premises. the text also proposes the introduction of a 'legislative footprint' for lobbying, indicating in the annex to the legislative acts the interest groups that have participated in its development. the common register should be available online in june.
in writing. no lobby group for commercial interests should be granted a permanent passport to the european institutions. their access to the european parliament must be strictly limited to the appointments given to them by the members and the political groups. the proposed 'transparency register' is nothing more than an administrative legitimization. it serves to maintain the status quo. lobbyists have a great day ahead of them. i am voting against and denouncing this hypocritical report. it would be better to oblige the above mentioned persons to declare their personal links with the media and their parliamentary and administrative links with the european parliament.
in writing. having noted, and i quote and practice the euphemism, a 'lack of values and ethics in the behaviour of certain market players and financial institutions', this parliament is embarking on a pathetic crusade to moralize the sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. a pathetic chatter about social, cultural and "gender" diversity on boards (roma quotas perhaps?); the commission has already adopted proposals on the subject of unfair wages in the sector, which can be improved considerably. a few risk checks here and there... in short, you forget that companies are only playing by the rules of the game that you set. but these rules, which you fundamentally refuse to call into question, are the free movement of capital worldwide, the financialization of the economy, the focus on the short term, securitisation, complex financial products based on no concrete creation of wealth, the creation of large multinational groups that are more powerful than states and uncontrollable. until you touch the foundations of this system, you'll change nothing.
in writing. i voted against the resolution proposed by the european right because it advocates an ultra-liberal view of the eu's trade relations with india. the right has consistently opposed the amendments which i tabled on behalf of the s&d group to exclude any liberalization of public services, to strongly condemn child labour, to call for legally binding clauses on corporate social responsibility, or to demand respect for the principle of equal pay for equal work for indians who will come to work in europe tomorrow. the compromise was impossible, the differences of opinion were obvious and irreconcilable. only the resolution tabled by my group, together with those of the greens and the gue/ngl, proposed a progressive vision of eu-india trade relations. unfortunately, and unsurprisingly, it has not been able to resist the right-wing majority in this parliament.
in writing. i voted against this report. we want an eu-india free trade agreement to help promote sustainable development, and to be accompanied by clear clauses on compliance with ilo standards, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility obligations. it is particularly regrettable that the right has rejected such demands. we also regret that the right wing of parliament has rejected the amendment to guarantee equal treatment for european and indian workers. it is not only harmful to indian workers, but it is also very dangerous for european workers. we cannot accept the opening up of services and social dumping aimed at levelling european wages downwards. the european union cannot forget its founding principles. the lisbon treaty states that trade policy must contribute to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights.
in writing. as you have so often said, the common foreign policy must respect the overall objectives of the european union, as defined in particular in article 3 of the treaty, which includes the eradication of poverty. but for years you have been signing free trade agreements with all the countries of the world, especially those which systematically practice social, monetary or environmental dumping, and you are only creating poverty for all the victims of the relocations or closures of businesses directly linked to this unfair competition. with this agreement with india, you are going even further: exit the polish plumber, welcome the indian computer scientist or accountant! you intend to open up the european market for many services to mode 4 of the general agreement on trade in services (gats), a barbaric term for the global version of the bolkestein directive. as the french nobel prize winner in economics, maurice allais, pointed out, there is mutually beneficial free trade only between countries of comparable levels of development, and again, i would add, in targeted areas that preserve each country's strategic sectors. otherwise, the game is never win-win. it has, in fact, for a long time had only one loser: europe.
in writing. the text has the merit of taking into account the possible negative consequences of gmos. but it is pushing for the liberalisation of trade in services between the european union and india. it leaves the states only the right to 'regulate' public services which such liberalisation condemns. it also calls for the liberalisation of legal and accounting services, the opening up of the banking and insurance markets and the facilitation of investment opportunities. the oligarchy is served in europe as in india. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the eu-india free trade agreement. this report is in line with the policies of increased liberalization, particularly in the public services sector, and standards which have a negative effect not only on the supply of medicines but also on the development of research. it is still the ultraliberalism that the eu seeks to impose on all its partners. it is the eu's largest agreement in this area, and is more about protecting the interests of large multinationals than about engaging a balanced partnership of all stakeholders and contributing to the economic and social development of this great country. no, this agreement is not a 'win-win' initiative as claimed in this resolution.
in writing. in the run-up to the eu-japan summit at the end of the month, parliament adopted this resolution expressing its views on trade relations between the two partners. against a european right wing which has spoken very strongly in favour of opening negotiations with a view to reaching a free trade agreement, i have advocated a more cautious approach. japan is a trading power which calls for caution when it comes to trade liberalization. that is why my group opposed the text put forward by the european right, stressing that precise impact studies should be launched, assessing the consequences of a strengthening of trade relations on all the sectors concerned (in particular the automobile sector) and on employment in europe, before any negotiations are launched. at the same time, we stressed the problem of non-tariff barriers which block european companies' access to japanese public contracts. it is unacceptable that the european union, the most open region in the world in terms of foreign investment, should not be able to intervene on equal terms with its industrialized partners.
in writing. just a few weeks after the natural and nuclear disaster in japan, the european right feels inspired to threaten the japanese government. the aim is to oblige japan to remove the obstacles to european companies' access to its public procurement. not a word about the nuclear disaster. no cooperation proposal to get out of this situation. barely a solidarity line after the single nuclear disaster in japan. shame on the european right!
in writing. to achieve a consistent approach in the european union by reconciling the forestry policies of southern and northern europe is a challenge that is far from obvious. but in adopting this report we have emphasized the need for a stronger commitment to environmental protection in forestry policy. we also emphasise the challenge that climate change poses to forests. i am not sure that we need a legislative initiative to prohibit building on land ravaged by fires, but i am in favour of thinking about firm and lasting solutions to the terrible phenomenon of criminal forest fires aimed at freeing up building land.
in writing. the arsenis report demonstrates the importance which the european parliament attaches to forestry policy. the content of the report emphasizes the need for sufficient and ambitious financial resources for the future for the forest and the wood sector. i therefore support the adoption of this text, and i renew my support for the adoption of a specific financial instrument for the protection of the forests of the union.
in writing. the european parliament has sent a strong political message to stress the need for sustainable forest management. it is necessary and urgent to put into practice the recommendations on disaster prevention. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the european union for the period from 1 january 2000 to 31 december 2003. protecting forests against climate change also helps to preserve the forestry industry and its competitiveness. with a turnover of over eur 300 billion, the european wood sector provides over two million jobs and is a major source of growth. finally, it is essential that the debate on the future of the cap after 2013 takes into account the role of forests. rural producers and public bodies must be eligible for forestry measures under the second pillar of the cap: the eu must support the planting of forests under national rural development programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the commission's green paper entitled 'forest protection and forest information in the european union; preparing forests for climate change". forests must be seen as a fundamental element in the fight against climate change. it is crucial that the european union reinforces its strategy to combat forest-damaging phenomena such as fires and air pollution. against these threats, the ability of forests to recover to normal development in the face of the impacts of climate change depends on biodiversity, not only of the trees, but also of all other organisms living there, especially wild animals. for example, wildlife that naturally colonizes the prime habitat of forests deserve special attention from landowners as they contribute to the maintenance of biodiversity.
in writing. the preservation of forests is a fundamental issue for the benefit of all mankind. it is a pity that it is once again used as a pretext for the development of the carbon market. european green capitalism is a dead end. capitalism and ecology are incompatible.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the green paper on forests presented by the commission. forests are part of our landscape, our heritage, and are essential to our well-being. as threats become more serious, better protection of these exceptional natural resources is essential. the consequences of climate change on forests are well known, but the inertia to address them seriously jeopardises their preservation. but they are fragile ecosystems, a priceless biodiversity and a strategic economic channel that we have to preserve. i therefore welcome the strong political message sent by our parliament in this international year of the forest. the measures we need to take to adapt to climate change cannot be delayed. the european tactical forest fire reserve should also be strengthened, given that prevention is as important as response. if we are to preserve the forest as we know and love it, we must be at the forefront of the fight to ensure sustainable management of forest areas and protect them from the threats that threaten them.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of paragraph 85 of the albertini report, which welcomes the resumption of negotiations on an association agreement with mercosur. such an agreement, which aims to liberalize trade, must be considered with the greatest caution in order not to weaken community agriculture even further. mercosur's production is not subject to environmental and social standards comparable to those of european agriculture. there is a strong risk of unfair competition in these conditions. it's important to protect yourself.
in writing. the real fundamental choice of the cfsp in 2009 was that of the high representative. i have to admit, he's not the best. it is clear that mrs ashton is more adept at the corporate-lady-like, moralizing press releases than she is at the diplomatic issues you want her to face on behalf of the 27. thanks to it, the european union has been absent, or present against the tide, in all the important events. but as is usual in times of crisis, a handful of states took the initiative, for better or for worse, organized themselves and acted. the rest either followed or grumbled, since he was expected to have an opinion. the union's foreign policy is essentially a matter of distributing funds and trading, which is often in contradiction with the political principles it sets out. and it makes sense: diplomacy is the royal function of states. it is the product of history, of economic or geopolitical interests, and of individual means. the interests of the union are neither a synthesis nor a sum of those of its members. they are peculiar to the country and often conflict with national interests. it's totally illegitimate for them to take precedence over them.
in writing. the eu is calling for the broad guidelines of the common european defence policy (cfsp) to be defined in the light of the increasing global instability. i welcome the fact that this report stresses the need to involve parliament. as the representatives of the peoples of europe, we must play a role in the development of a european defence policy. one of the fundamental objectives of the european union is to defend the values of peace, human rights and democracy. the promotion of our principles must be based on an ambitious strategy of external action and diplomacy. the lisbon treaty has given the union a voice with the high representative/vice-president. our cfsp cannot allow for division. this vote is therefore a call for better coordination between all the institutional actors: the european external action service, the european commission, the member states and, of course, the european parliament. in a changing world, our union must be more than economic. we have a historic responsibility to make it a political union. the cfsp must be a vehicle for achieving this. that is the message that our parliament has wanted to send, and the position that i support.
in writing. when we talk about political europe, a european telephone number or making europe speak with one voice, we often forget to mention that this can only really exist if there is a european defence policy. recent events in libya have only demonstrated the scale of the project at this level. in a context of financial difficulties, pooling our resources is not only politically desirable, it is imperative.
in writing. this text, like the treaty of lisbon, argues that nato is the foundation of the collective defence of the eu member states. it welcomed the desire for a stronger partnership shown by the two organisations. he wants to increase the role of the european commission and the very atlanticist lady ashton in defence matters. it is not content to submit to the united states, but it is also in favour of the rapid implementation of measures to liberalize the arms market. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that the european union has every right to increase its presence in international organisations. the peoples of europe, through our governments, have given the union its own legal personality and powers. the european construction is based on a set of fundamental values which is constantly expanding. we are called upon to coordinate our action and to promote the uniqueness of our unity, as we already do at the world trade organization. there's still a long way to go. but there are encouraging signs. the union is trying to give itself the means to carry out its foreign policy (appointment of a high representative, creation of the european external action service). the advanced status which the union has just received will enable it to express its positions in the united nations general assembly.
in writing. we live in a world where crises are occurring more and more rapidly. in the face of this new situation, policymakers have a responsibility both to anticipate and to react in a reactive and effective manner. and at this level, there is no magic. when the eu is unable to pool its forces, to provide for procedures and to speak with one voice, it is regularly overwhelmed. the eu has its interests to defend in the un, and especially in the imf. the eu can be the guarantor of european interests, and therefore in fact the guarantor of the interests of the member states. so you have to be organized. we need to get organized. that is the meaning and the wish of this report.
in writing. with its reports on eu foreign policy, parliament is once again in the most complete blindness. brussels is trying to impose european security and defence policies and diplomacy, but this is not working, not because of a lack of means but because of persistence in a wrong ideology and wrong assumptions. first, the eu's voice is not heard anywhere in the world. only a few federalists would like to hear that, but it is the diversity and cooperation of diplomacy that makes europe so rich at the united nations and elsewhere. secondly, no one hears the inaudible and incoherent murmurs of european leaders without a mandate and, above all, without legitimacy. when europe speaks with one voice, it is to say nothing!
in writing. each member state has the right to speak on its behalf in international bodies. governments are elected, unlike mrs ashton, the european commission and the ecb, which this text wants to impose as our sole and only representatives. i am voting against this attempt to kill the sovereign equality of states on the international stage.
in writing. since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the diplomatic functioning of the european union has been strengthened in order to improve europe's visibility on the international stage. i welcome the adoption of this report which calls for a better representation of the community institutions in the world organizations. the europe of 27 is now stronger. the entry of new countries into the union has strengthened its economic and demographic weight. but in an enlarged europe, the balance and coordination between the member states has been upset. the european message has changed, it has become richer and more complex. the search for consensus must, in my view, be a prerequisite for improving the representation of the european union in multilateral organizations. i welcome the union's support for the un strategy, particularly in its humanitarian and conflict resolution policy. europe and the un have a great many common objectives and interests, which in my view justify closer cooperation and synergy of means. in this context, i hope that europe's place in the un will be strengthened, particularly at its annual general assemblies.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate mrs liotard, mr pittella, mr leinen and the whole negotiating team. we have, thanks to them, a very united position throughout this very long trilogue and i think the only positive aspect of the dossier is that the european parliament has been united in defending public health and the interests of consumers. this is what we're elected to do and nothing else. so i'm saying we should move on and not look for responsibility. the fact remains that the facts are stubborn and that when we reached the point of negotiation in which parliament had given up a great deal, well, it was still too much. as if we had to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to label products sold on the european market, even though consumer choice is a fundamental element of european law. what has happened is completely unacceptable and we have been given false pretexts. these are false legal pretexts. there was no trade war, no violation of wto rules. that's not legally true. the fact that we cannot label is a false technical excuse. that's not true, man. we could perfectly label and trace. we simply did not want to do it because, as jo leinen said earlier, we put other interests before the interests of the consumers. so now we must move forward, and we must move forward quickly because this cloning case is another element used by all those who want to challenge the european institutions. it's an argument from the heart. it is an argument of distrust of our institutions. it is an argument of mistrust of the food that circulates on the european market. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the cloning of animals, which is a very important one.
what mrs. liotard just said is absolutely incredible. i would therefore like to reinforce the question she has just asked. i am astonished and would like to ask the commission whether it also has this note. it is unacceptable that for weeks and weeks we were told that we were going to be at open war with the wto, that mr de gucht told us that we could no longer sell aircraft, that we could no longer sell anything from the moment we took this decision, when there was a legal note which said exactly the opposite. i think this is an absolutely major political issue.
madam president, i would first like to make a rather general comment. when we talk about consumer distrust of institutions, i do not think that is the point. it is also often the individuals who create this distrust and who derive personal benefit from it. i shall now return to the substance. it is true that at the end of this long night of negotiations, from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., there was a great deal of disappointment. and it is true that the european commission has an enormous task today, because it has to make us new proposals, because the evolution of technology makes it necessary today to revise this legislation. when we think of nanomaterials, for example, we still feel a great urgency. it is unacceptable that there should be no controls on cloning techniques or on the foodstuffs derived from these techniques which could be used for human consumption. there are clear principles and i think we are all in agreement in this parliament. consumers should be informed of the origin of food derived from cloned animals or their descendants. we must demand two things: traceability and labelling. i have no doubt that commissioner dalli is willing to shed light on this matter and to provide answers to the many questions that remain unanswered today. traceability is an imperative. the european consumer must be able to make an informed choice. as european legislators, we cannot afford to say to european public opinion: 'europe is doing nothing because we have failed to reach an agreement'. i know, commissioner, that you have the ambition to overcome the institutional blockages we have seen in order to give more guarantees to consumers but also to the agri-food industry. we have very little time, and we must act now as quickly as possible to find a solution to this problem.
, in writing. european smes are the lungs of our economic activity. their development, modernisation and competitiveness must be at the heart of our economic strategy. i therefore welcome the commission's proposed revision of the small business act, which aims to unlock the growth potential of smes. there is still a lot to be done to simplify the regulatory environment and the administrative procedures which are too burdensome for the activity and dynamism of our companies. i also support the creation of a european private company statute. this would help our smes to take full advantage of the european single market by allowing them to carry out their cross-border activities without having to fulfil obligations that are often onerous and discouraging. i therefore call on the council to take a swift decision on this initiative. finally, we must give innovative smes a strong hand by facilitating their access to diversified financing. this is achieved by significantly simplifying the use of european funds, which still lack flexibility. these funds exist and i believe they must be mobilised to support more effectively the development of the real economy, innovation and employment.
mr president, on 9 may 2010 the eu/ecb/imf troika triumphantly announced that they had saved greece from total bankruptcy with a €110 billion loan. a year later, greece plunged into recession. public debt is soaring to 150% of gdp and two-year interest rates are reaching over 25% per year. if greece is now breathless, it is because the method used to save it is not the right one. while the greek economy would now need a weak currency to emerge from the depression, the troika will impose a new and even more drastic budgetary austerity plan. and just as it didn't work yesterday, it won't work tomorrow. the punitive interest rates which affect greece today prohibit its private economy from any investment, whether in the productive apparatus or in real estate. greece is becoming a third world country, destroying all hope of repayment. the draft of a new €60 billion rescue plan envisaged last friday shows that the €110 billion loan already granted a year ago must be considered a gift. how long will european taxpayers fill the danaid barrel? to continue in this way is suicidal and will lead to the break-up of europe. there are two possible solutions: either the restructuring of the greek debt, with the restructuring of all the public debt of the states in difficulty and, in the end, the bankruptcy of our banking system, or a concerted, rational and pragmatic exit from the euro zone allowing greece to catch its breath. europe is at a crossroads. is saving the euro worth the sacrifice of the people?
, in writing. the sovereign debt crisis is speculation in the debt of the states that have come to the rescue of the banking sector, a sector directly at the origin of the deep crisis we are experiencing, which has not taken any of its responsibilities, especially not financial, but is raking in record profits while european taxpayers and workers are asked to tighten their belts. as for the holy markets, they are now giving the la. the commission and governments are obsessed with reassuring them. all of last weekend was occupied with false information about debt restructuring or greece's exit from the euro. rumors, moreover, started by those who have bet billions on a default they're trying to create. i've heard that restructuring the debt would be a disaster. for the private investors. except, at the same time, we learn that the bnp, for example, would lose much less than the 6 billion expected profits this year. or that, without the exorbitant interest burden, greece's deficit would be 1.5% of gdp instead of 8%. speculators are laughing at the taxpayers and wanting to see the beast bleed to death! it's time to end this sick circus.
mr president, the synergies between these four agencies lead us to look more specifically at their objectives. if their tasks are grouped together on paper, the discharge procedure does not give us any more satisfaction as to their efficiency. the external auditor pointed to weaknesses in budgetary programming, a lack of a clear link between objectives and budgetary resources, and deferrals and cancellations of significant appropriations. taking eurofound as an example, the court of auditors notes in its 2009 report that the foundation has not established in its budget a specific heading for the different programmes financed by assigned revenue. the problem, i think, is that we do not know very much about how community contributions are used until we look at the agency's balance sheet two years later. these weaknesses in programming therefore do not give us any guarantee of specific added value for these four agencies. in response, we can think about better coordination of their work. for example, why not form a single board of directors for the four agencies? the interinstitutional working group has been working on these issues for several years. what can he tell us?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we set ourselves the objective of strengthening our capacity for innovation and investment or of gaining a competitive edge with the united states and china, we are talking about economic development, but in practice we are talking about job creation. that is why we must give ourselves the means to strengthen innovation. congratulations to judith merkies for the one-stop shop, the funding strategy, the recognition of a necessary risk-taking by researchers. the report goes in the right direction and proposes a favourable environment for smes, which are a key element in the success of the european union. innovation means attractiveness and competitiveness of territories, and the involvement of regions and local authorities is essential in terms of the funds to be committed, reducing disparities, and enhancing the active role that citizens must play, because it is directly on the ground that the measures proposed in this report will effectively contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
author. - madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that, in advance of the next ilo general assembly, we can discuss here together this welcome initiative of the international labour organisation to propose to the member states of that organisation a convention accompanied by a recommendation on the question of domestic work. commissioner, on behalf of the whole of this parliament, i thank you for accepting this debate before this conference. we think that's good practice. domestic work, as we know, officially represents between 5 and 9% of total employment in the european union. if i look at what we have collectively validated with the europe 2020 strategy, we have a clear perception that the so-called proximity jobs, namely those that allow us to accompany our elders, those that allow women to get back on the path to work while they have small children, correspond to situations that allow this domestic work to develop. within the european union, i believe it is essential to support this welcome initiative of the international labour organisation, because the development of our societies is full of trends - we know them. the overall demand for domestic services is going to increase, but we cannot, on the one hand, welcome the adoption of an agenda by the international labour organisation for decent work and, on the other, leave an entire part of the labour market in the shadow of any legislation, any regulation. the european union must set an example in this respect. i know that sometimes we tend to think that the ilo conventions are, after all, for other people. no, i'm not going. we too must be exemplary in this regard. in the field of domestic work, i believe that the ilo offers us a great opportunity to shed some light on the functioning of some of our labour markets, because domestic work is too often precarious, undervalued and undeclared. i am simply saying that i understand that some people are concerned about the recognition or the regularisation of illegal migrants, but i am also concerned about the fight we must wage in each of our member states against undeclared work. but in the field of domestic work we know how unfortunately these practices are developed. we hope that the 100th session of the international labour conference in june, on the basis of tripartite negotiations, will make it possible to put this convention and recommendation on track. we believe that they are essential to transform what is too often an exploitation relationship into a legal one. we want the legal recognition of domestic work to be possible too. we need those who work with our elders or our children to be able to have freedom of association, time off, and not be victims of harassment and arbitrariness. we must also ensure that, through this tool offered to us by the ilo, we can define in this area what we mean by decent work, whether it be the question of working hours, the question of holidays or the question of housing conditions. i would like to know how the european commission intends to deal with this negotiation, with this draft convention, and from what mandate it will intervene on behalf of us all so that tomorrow, in the field of domestic work, the european union will be an example and that we can also bring the values of the european union to life here.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our debate this morning we are not simply talking about an economic model or a legal system. we're talking about culture and civilization today. what place does europe want to give to culture? what kind of radiation do we want for our works and our creation? the digital revolution, combined with globalisation and the acceleration of trade, is forcing us to rethink our cultural and economic model. with the internet and digital technology, where do we want europe to go? politics is the art of anticipating, of preparing what we want so as not to suffer what we do not want. the american james cameron spent on his film "avatar" the equivalent of the european union's "culture" programme for the period 2007-2013. will we be consumers of cultural products that no longer belong to us, dependent on multinational oligopolies such as google, itunes, amazon or hollywood, unable to defend our assets? this morning we are reflecting on the challenges of culture in the globalised world of the 21st century. the european commission, with the publication of its green paper last year, has finally taken stock of the potential of our creative and cultural industries. the european union has a cultural heritage and assets, and a very dynamic and vibrant cinema. the media programme is celebrating its 20th anniversary at the cannes film festival this year and supports 20 films in competition, festivals, live performances and major exhibitions throughout the year, all over europe. moreover, despite the crisis, the creative and cultural industries sector has been growing steadily over the last decade. the numbers speak for themselves. in 2003, the sector generated sales of eur 654 billion. it contributed 2.6% to community gdp and accounted for 3.1% of total employment in the european union, or 5.8 million people. in 2008, it already represented €860 billion, 14 million jobs, almost 7% of gdp. that's more than the auto industry and the food industry combined. the dual nature of these industries, both economic and cultural, makes them important levers of sustainable, smart, inclusive growth for europe - in short, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in addition to economic assets, they nourish and enrich cultural diversity. they contribute to social cohesion, to the attractiveness of the territories and to the european union's international standing. it is time to give the community a real impetus to unlock their potential and stimulate their development. i therefore wanted to open up many avenues to support the growth of these industries. these measures are of several orders. first, to put education and training at the heart of our strategy. on the one hand, europe must encourage creative talent from an early age, raise young people's awareness of culture, and develop partnerships between universities and businesses. on the other hand, it must make it possible to train cultural actors in new technologies and entrepreneurship, and stimulate the sharing of good practice and the transmission of know-how. secondly, it is essential to adapt copyright to the digital age. the current system for acquiring copyright is too fragmented, too complicated. a third essential element of our strategy must be the protection of creation. intellectual property is a valuable asset. a looted creation is a creation doomed to disappear. we must encourage the mobility of creators. the european union must work towards the creation of a european status for them so that they can benefit from working conditions and social protection. it must facilitate the purchase, distribution and circulation of works, adapt taxation, for example by reducing vat on cultural goods, and finally help with financing. private investors are too often reluctant to finance smes. the opportunities offered by public funding, particularly the structural funds, are being underutilized. creativity and culture must be seen as essential elements of our policy and, as such, europe must support them.
member of the commission. − mr president, of course you understand that i will take a bit longer than five minutes to reply to the five reports. i would like to thank mr zver for his report on youth on the move. we really appreciate his efforts, as well as those of his co-rapporteurs, in dealing with this very important topic. as the report makes clear, the key objective of youth on the move is to help young people in europe to gain the skills and experience they need to succeed in today’s increasingly internationalised knowledge-based economy. our goal is very much to create an environment in which every young person will be able to realise their potential. this is why the commission has launched actions to support member states in improving the quality and relevance of education and training from early childhood through to higher education. this is why we have set out measures to strengthen further the mobility opportunities available to young people and it is why my commission colleague lásló andor and i have placed so much emphasis on improving conditions for young people moving into the labour market. to achieve this, as mr zver’s report makes so clear, sustained investment in education and training at all levels is necessary, and of course europe must play its part. that is why i am arguing so strongly for increased resources for the new generation of education, training and youth programmes for the period after 2013. i want to take this opportunity to respond directly to two points in the report. firstly, i would like to reassure you on our approach to improving the transparency of higher education systems. as the report argues, our ultimate goal is to improve the information available to prospective students and others on various aspects of institutions’ activities and performance. we want to develop a tool to overcome the shortcomings of existing university rankings by including a wider range of factors. we have no intention of publishing league tables of universities. secondly, in the light of the call in the report for steps to remove barriers to mobility, i would highlight the fact that a council recommendation designed to encourage member states to do precisely this is due to be adopted by the council in the coming days. it will mark a further step in our ambition to extend mobility opportunities. in conclusion on youth on the move, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the honourable members once again for their support. on the subject of early years learning, i would like to thank ms honeyball for her report and for the constructive approach she has taken to the issue of early childhood education and care. education and care for young children, which are widely accessible, inclusive and of high quality, help first of all to reconcile family and working life. secondly, they are the foundation for lifelong learning, social integration, personal development and employability later in life. investing early is much more effective than intervening later. the commission therefore very much appreciates parliament’s approach, focusing on the long-term benefit of investing in early years learning. the commission shares the view expressed by parliament that a more child-centred approach is needed. besides the number of places available, we must also address the question of quality at european and national level. i am thinking, for example, of staffing and staff quality, the integration of care and education, and active engagement with parents, who are the first educators of their children. the commission welcomes the call for more european research in the field and for more efficient use of the existing financial tools, such as the structural funds and the lifelong learning programmes. we also welcome the strong emphasis on the need to identify and exchange good practices at european level. turning to the schaake report on the cultural dimensions of the eu’s external actions, i congratulate ms schaake for this excellent own-initiative document. it rightly underlines the role of culture not only as a bridge between peoples but also as a fundamental element in promoting our values in the world. at the same time, it calls for a more strategic approach to cultural cooperation between the eu and third countries. the report also makes interesting suggestions on how the european external action service could take up the challenge of developing truly european cultural diplomacy. in this regard, ms schaake, i would mention two particular points in your report. firstly, let me underline the relevance of your recommendation on a coherent and comprehensive strategy for cultural diplomacy at the level of the eu institutions. secondly, let me refer to the idea of providing the european external action service with a real cultural diplomacy dimension. one of the aspects of this effort would be the establishment of cultural attachés in major capitals around the globe. the creation of such postings would allow increased coordination both between the present cultural attachés of member states’ embassies and between those national institutes of culture with a local presence, particularly via the european union national institutes for culture (eunics) network. i had the pleasure of meeting eunics in both china and brazil recently and i heard from them how much they need cooperation and coordination in order to promote our culture in the countries where they serve. as regards our emerging strategic partners around the globe, we have witnessed recently how culture can become an integral part of our external relations. i am more committed than ever to advancing further this very important dimension of our european agenda for culture. i now come to the sanchez-schmid report on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries. i would like to thank parliament and, in particular, ms sanchez-schmid, for this very good report. i am pleased to see that there is a strong convergence of views between your report and our analysis. we agree that the cultural and creative industries are a powerful motor not only for jobs, growth and export earnings, but also for social inclusion and cultural and linguistic diversity, as well as intercultural dialogue within the european union and beyond. as you rightly say in the report, these industries have a vital contribution to make to the europe 2020 strategy and must be given a more prominent place in the eu for the years to come. we also share the view that their potential is not fully developed. if we want these industries to develop fully, we have to make progress on various fronts: skills adaptation and capacity building, access to funding, improving the business environment, support for cross-border circulation and new distribution models, maximising these industries’ potential for regional and local development, promoting their spillover effects in terms of innovation, and promoting a creative europe on the world stage. this conclusion also emerges from the consultation launched by our green paper, which prompted reactions from 350 public authorities, the general public, civil society bodies and companies active in the field of culture across europe. i am pleased to see that our green paper has sparked, in europe and within the european institutions, a very rich debate on the right environment to put in place to meet the specific needs of creating entrepreneurship in order to seize the new opportunities offered by globalisation, digitisation and cultural diversity. i am firmly convinced that our joint efforts will help to create a better environment in which these vital industries can play an important role in the discussions on eu funding mechanisms post-2013 and implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. finally, i am very happy to see parliament’s enthusiasm – and in particular that of my good friend doris pack – for the european capitals of culture and sarajevo’s interest in holding the title. the commission, of course, shares your view of the historic and cultural importance of sarajevo. the city symbolises some of the darkest episodes in recent european history but also carries our hopes for a better future. in the face of repeated conflicts, sarajevo has retained its multicultural spirit. let me say a few words about the rules governing the european capitals of culture. in 2006, parliament and the council adopted the decision on which the initiative is based. this legal text lays down all the rules concerning the selection of the cities, and you know better than i do that a decision of this nature can be changed only through a new initiative following the ordinary legislative procedure. the decision states that the initiative is open exclusively to the 27 member states of the european union. as an integral part of the decision, a chronological list indicates, for every year until 2019, the two member states which are entitled to hold the title. two cities have already been selected for 2014, and the council is about to confirm the two cities for 2015. the decision lays down the procedure for awarding the european capital of culture title, and the rules leave no scope for the council to designate a city outside these procedures. the commission is fully and solely responsible for implementing the decisions adopted by parliament and council. a derogation from the decision on the european capitals of culture in relation to a matter as fundamental as its geographical scope would simply break the rules that we have been asked to follow. i believe it would be particularly difficult to justify an exception so soon after we have all agreed the rules of the initiative. parliament and the council adopted the current decision less than five years ago. that was the moment, surely, to make the case for the participation of non-member states or to make provisions for exceptional cases. however, at that point it was decided that the participation of non-member states would not continue beyond 2010. looking to the future of the european capitals of culture, the commission is currently working on renewal of the initiative beyond 2019. we launched a public consultation and are conducting an evaluation of the current scheme. we will then prepare a proposal, which we expect to adopt at the beginning of 2012. as part of our preparatory work, the commission is exploring the idea of candidate countries joining the initiative after 2019. i would also inform you that a number of cities in other third countries have already shown an interest. allow me to finish by underlining once again how much i appreciate sarajevo’s place in european history and its cultural significance. while the capitals of culture action is not available, the eu can offer other types of support for sarajevo, in 2014 and beyond, through our cultural programme.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, i will begin by addressing the cultural and creative industries. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to stress the important role that culture and creativity play in the european economy and in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for a knowledge-based and innovation-based society, as well as the job-creation potential they represent. the report pays particular attention to working conditions in this sector, including income discontinuity and precarious employment relationships which require careful consideration to take account of specificities, for example by combating discrimination in pay, and to improve the match between employment and skill level. we want to improve the access of young people and the most vulnerable to culture and creative content, encourage mobility, promote cultural diversity, the use and dissemination of free software and open standards. finally, we stress the role of lifelong learning in this rapidly changing sector. from now on, i'm talking about youth on the move. young europeans are in a bind: whether it is access to employment, education, housing, social services, they are suffering from a real social exploitation. we must give them confidence in the future with appropriate and ambitious responses. i am glad that this text does not look at the inclusion of young people through the lens of employment alone, but also through the lens of education and training. i would like to stress and support the request to the european commission for a green paper on youth participation. our report also stresses the idea of mobility which must be accessible to all, and i welcome this. today, mobility is mainly for students, but it must be encouraged for all, young workers and young people in vocational training. it would be unfortunate to divide young europeans into an educated, polyglot elite, confident in the future, and a category of young people left behind on the pretext that they have not completed the baccalaureate or because they only do manual activities. i am particularly pleased that we called in this text for the elimination of age discrimination in access to social protection. i am asking for it here, and i think that the minimum income scheme is a key element in ensuring the autonomy of young people. our report stresses that the main concern of young people is to be self-sufficient, to have access to health care and to have decent housing at a reasonable price. we all know that for a young person who is forced to work in parallel with his studies, it is a failure in school. i am glad that in this parliament it is recognised that traineeships must no longer be disguised jobs, full-time jobs, that they must be accompanied by adequate pay and social protection. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the two reports by mrs schaake and mrs sanchez-schmid remind us that culture is not a decorative motif but the fruit of complex interdependencies which show that cultural issues must be tackled in a transversal way and integrated into all european policies, internal and external, social and economic. in this respect, i encourage you, commissioner, to continue along this path and to develop cooperation with the other committees, with the other services of the european commission and with mrs ashton's european external action service. i would also like to return to a point which has not been fully dealt with in these reports, namely the mobility of artists and cultural professionals. it is of vital importance for the emergence of a european cultural area. two points seem to me important in this regard, namely, firstly, the dissemination by the european union and the member states of clear and comprehensible information on the regulations and procedures in force. secondly, the removal - as has already been said - of the regulatory and administrative barriers which hinder the smooth movement of cultural operators, in particular third-country nationals, within the schengen area, by establishing, for example, common accelerated procedures within the european union for short-term and long-term visas, as well as a single procedure for obtaining work permits in the union. i strongly urge the commission to continue to work on these issues. finally, in a context of a growing global mainstream, largely american, in cultural leisure, it is urgent to remind the european union and the member states of the importance of equipping themselves with tools to ensure the defence and promotion of the diversity of european and third countries' cultures. europe must therefore reposition itself and not give up the battle of soft power, since the challenge today is that of respecting cultural diversity as an element of dialogue and as a guarantee of peace and stability on a world scale.
mr president, i should like to make a general comment on all the debates which have been put before us this morning. unfortunately, education and culture do not have enough room in this house. they are essential for our future, the future of europe, the future of our young people. the under-30s represent 20% of the european population, but unemployment among young people under 24 is now close to 21%, and nearly 15% of 18-24 year olds leave school before the end of the second cycle and do not pursue further education or training. worse still, nearly 25 percent of young people under 15 have difficulty reading. these figures cannot satisfy us and they are getting worse in a number of member states with the crisis. the report on 'youth on the move' which has been submitted to us is in the right direction on certain points and sends a number of messages to the commission and the member states. the european parliament reaffirms its determination not to see our young people sacrificed on the altar of the austerity policies being implemented throughout europe. let us hope that these are not idle words! the report also contains a number of worrying elements, particularly when it expresses the desire to reform higher education programmes solely in accordance with market needs, without bothering to reaffirm the overall role of higher education in the overall training of the citizens of tomorrow. we know that the more extensive the training of young people, the better equipped they are to face the uncertainties of life, and in particular the uncertainties of working life. we will soon have to work on the issues of the bologna process and i welcome that. i will simply say that our role is to listen to the concerns - and the word is weak - that are being raised in a number of states in the light of the reforms undertaken in the name of the bologna process. we cannot sacrifice our youth, words are not enough in this matter. i would like to add a few words to thank mrs honeyball for her report and the work we have been able to do on the issues of early childhood. i fully agree with the report's guidelines. on the other hand, i cannot agree with the guidelines of mrs sanchez-schmid's report on the cultural industries, which involve cultural goods in a commercial logic subject to the laws of the market. finally, i would like to give my firm support to mrs pack for the choice of sarajevo as the european capital.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the digitisation of cultural and artistic goods, i believe the question is: is europe destined to become a consumer country for the united states, and soon for the emerging countries, or will it finally wake up and implement the means to develop its information, cultural and economic potential? i am of course convinced of the richness and diversity of european culture, but i am putting myself today in a competitive perspective to denounce nonsense and absurdity. nonsense is the free dream of some, the access to everything for nothing. if we were to go down this road, there would be no more investment in this sector. the creators and inventors would not be able to receive a fair wage and would eventually disappear. so the economic models that we're going to implement for the online circulation of our cultural heritage exclude free. the absurdity is the taxation of dematerialized cultural property in two aspects. firstly, there is a distortion of vat according to the country of establishment. for example, the us platforms have been under a moratorium since 1998, which has allowed them to grow tremendously. on the other hand, there is a discrimination in the vat rate, which penalizes digital goods compared to physical goods. i think we need to provide legislative answers to both of these questions.
mr president, the situation of young people in europe today is very worrying, as you know, since we have five million young people out of work. today i welcome the european commission's ambition to democratize access for young people in europe. but i think we must go beyond this youth on the move programme and above all avoid the trap of 'all academic'. we need to reach out to all audiences, including those furthest from the european union, and in particular, of course, to apprentices. and it is in this sense, i think, that we must very quickly set up a real mobility programme for these audiences, beyond the leonardo programme. i think the name erasmus, the erasmus brand, should be used for all programmes and be declined, especially for apprentices, so that we have the ambition to achieve our goals. and then the second question is the question of funding. we must put the means to it because, as many of you have said, youth and education must be the top priorities for the future of the union.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, after all these speeches, i would like to thank my colleagues, all the fictitious rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the committees whose opinions have been requested, who have suggested many ideas to me and have helped to improve the text we are voting on today. i would now like to look further with you. what follow-up do we want to give to this report? we ask the european commission to draw up a white paper in continuation of its green paper to take stock of the situation and to develop a genuine strategy for the creative and cultural industries. we also look forward to legislative proposals on the taxation of cultural property, on the governance of collective management societies, on the budgetary envelopes for cultural, educational and media programmes. we must translate our ambitions into concrete action. why not quickly introduce a reduced vat rate for all cultural products, whether they are in physical or online form? the disparities in taxation create distortions which are all detrimental to the competitiveness of european enterprises. americans have long had a competitive advantage thanks to a tax moratorium on these services. what will be the reaction of europe? why not also consider a single price for e-books throughout europe? french politician edouard herriot once said: "culture is what we have left when we have forgotten everything". however, culture is quickly forgotten if it is not protected, if it is not maintained, if it is not cared for. i hope that europe will be able to promote its culture in order to promote its model, its heritage, defend its identity and develop its economy.
, in writing. the report sends a clear message: the european union must integrate a coherent and coordinated cultural strategy into its foreign policy. the links linking europe and the countries of the southern mediterranean in particular are undergoing profound changes. a wind of freedom is blowing in the arab world. culture is a decisive asset. it is playing for a living and sustainable democracy. cultural and educational exchanges encourage the emergence of an organised civil society. cultural cooperation is also one of the keys to the success of the union for the mediterranean. it brings people together to share, to dialogue, to respect and to understand each other better in everyday life.
in writing. i supported this report which reaffirms our ambitions for young people in europe. the europe 2020 strategy puts education at the heart of its objectives and sets targets for 2020: reducing early school leaving from 15% to 10% and increasing the percentage of people with a higher education qualification from 31% to 40%. i would like to stress one point, however: the obstacles to the mobility of young people. at present, it is estimated that only 4% of european students receive an erasmus grant at any point in their studies. this is still too little when we know the value of a cv of one year of mobility abroad in terms of learning - especially language learning - openness and competence. three problems can explain this figure: the ignorance of many students about the existence of mobility opportunities, the cost that a year of erasmus can represent for a student's budget, and the complexity of the recognition of learning. on all these issues, europe and the member states must commit themselves so that the erasmus programme, which is one of the eu's greatest successes, becomes a success for all.
in writing. while the youth unemployment figures in europe are extremely worrying (in january 2011, the unemployment rate for those under 25 was 20.6% in the eu), the report on the flagship initiative of the 2020 strategy 'youth on the move' calls on member states to increase their investment in education, training, mobility and youth. youth policies, whether in terms of education, initial, continuing or vocational training, must be seen as an investment, not as a cost! the development of human capital is essential for the future of our european societies. strengthening synergies between the various actors, developing the autonomy of young people, combating early school leavers, giving new value to vocational training and apprenticeship, or adopting a binding european quality framework for traineeships - these are all good ideas that now need to be passed on at national level. the success of the 2020 strategy will depend on the ownership and political will of the states responsible for implementing it, since these policies remain largely within the remit of national competences.
in writing. youth mobility programmes such as erasmus, erasmus mundus and comenius are attracting more and more applicants. however, practical obstacles to mobility still exist, including for obtaining visas and medical documents in different languages, for transferring scholarships abroad, and for the recognition of qualifications acquired in another member state. in 2004, when the erasmus mundus exchange programme was launched, i had obtained, with a large majority in parliament, that the european commission take the necessary measures to ensure quality mobility. a 'european quality charter for mobility' has even been created. but seven years later, the same obstacles are still present. the european parliament has therefore stressed the need for increased investment in education and training. opening up european mobility programmes to all young people, regardless of sector or social level, is essential to allowing them better access to the labour market. it is time for member states to make a real commitment to guaranteeing quality education for all young europeans.
in writing. because young people are the future of europe and it would be irresponsible not to make them a priority, even though they are facing an unemployment rate of almost 20%, i strongly supported the zver report on improving education and training systems in europe. in the face of the ever-increasing demands of employers, integration into the labour market is often a real test for many students. this is why the proposals in the report youth on the move increased investment in higher education, development of international mobility programmes, recognition of informal skills, combating school drop-out, support for the professional integration of young people were very favourably received by the european parliament.
in writing. common sense says that "travel is the education of youth"... it is in this context that i support the idea, as put forward in the zver report, that funding for education and youth mobility is an investment in europe's future, not an additional burden on budgets, despite the current difficult economic situation. moreover, a person's social background or financial situation should not be a barrier to access to opportunities to travel abroad. the disability must not be a barrier, and therefore additional support must be provided for disabled young people. finally, legally binding rights must be put in place to prevent precarious employment and the exploitation of which young trainees may be victims.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by milan zver, 'youth on the move - a framework to improve education and training systems in europe'. through this report, i believe it is important to support the various programmes set up at european level to enable young people to move, which is beneficial both in terms of acquiring new knowledge and skills and in terms of developing genuine european citizenship. at european level, it is important that we continue and strengthen, beyond 2013, the appropriations allocated to european mobility programmes (erasmus, leonardo da vinci, among others) so that they benefit more young people, students, but also apprentices, young professionals, young farmers. i also felt that there was a need to move towards a better recognition of qualifications acquired through any form of learning, whether non-formal or informal, given the skills that this enables. finally, i would like to stress that one of the keys to combating youth unemployment is to continually adapt education and vocational training systems to the ever-changing needs of the labour market.
in writing. the economic crisis is hitting europe's young people hard: while one in five young people is unemployed, 40% of young workers have part-time contracts. in this context, i support the report by my colleague, mr milan zver, which proposes a series of recommendations to improve the systems of education and training for young people. while action is needed to encourage the widest possible participation in higher education and to combat dropout rates - only 31% of europeans have a university degree, compared with 40% in the united states and 50% in japan! - graduates' employability must also be guaranteed. the report makes several proposals in this regard: improving the dialogue between enterprises and universities, bringing university programmes and structures closer to the specific needs of the labour market, introducing high-quality, fairly remunerated traineeships in study programmes which respect the social rights of young people.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report, despite its critical view of european policies, and in particular those pursued by the member states, towards young people. the report contains a number of positive proposals, notably on the participation of young people in the process of developing european youth policies, the enhancement of informal and non-formal education, and the improvement of the status of trainees. but beyond the stated intention to encourage member states to increase their investment in education, regardless of the financial crisis, the report is in line with the policies of liberalization of higher education and subordination of it to the sole immediate interests of the market and therefore of business. some of the provisions, such as the establishment of a european student loan scheme in collaboration with the eib, are even worrying in view of the objectives of ensuring that as many people as possible have access to university.
in writing. by voting in favour of the 'youth on the move' programme - a framework to improve education and training systems in europe', i wanted to support an ambitious action plan for young europeans. the lisbon treaty has extended the eu's competence in the field of youth. the european parliament should therefore reaffirm its support for this policy. the european identity is only meaningful if it is supported by our young citizens. europe must assume this responsibility by proposing a concerted strategy in the fields of training and employment. i welcome the ambition of this report, which sets the investment in higher education at 2% of gdp. at a time when the european labour market has been hit by a major economic crisis, training must be our priority if we are to offer future prospects and facilitate access to employment for young people. the development of european exchanges (erasmus, leonardo da vinci) will also benefit young people, as these programmes provide real added value at both professional and personal level. learning a new language or discovering another culture is a resource that should be available to all.
in writing. there are reports in this house whose title leaves no doubt that there will inevitably be nonsense! the honeyball report is one of them. let us skip the usual lines about the fate of migrants, compulsory multiculturalism or the promotion of everything minority. the pearl of this report is found in paragraph 14. fathers and mothers would thus be "full partners in the field of early childhood education and care". did i read "partners" right? are not parents primarily responsible for the education of their own children? but it is true that in paragraph 16 the rapporteur calls for investment in parental education programmes. from the outset, therefore, parents are viewed as incompetent, irresponsible, and childish. this is reinforced by paragraph 27, which emphasises that in the absence of adequate early childhood services, our children are at risk of falling into crime and antisocial behaviour. your trust in humanity is uncanny and we wonder how humanity has managed without you so far. no, really, the best service you can do for our beloved blondes is to leave them alone!
in writing. ensuring equal quality of reception and education for all young children, regardless of age or social status, is a minimum. the honeyball report, although relevant, does not dare to ask for this minimum. it's a shame, though. but since this text has no legislative effect, it can be approved despite its serious shortcomings.
in writing. the early years of childhood are crucial for children's brain, physical, emotional and personal development, for language acquisition, and are the foundation of lifelong learning. i am fully in favour of the implementation of a common european approach to early childhood learning - while respecting the diversity of approaches in each state - and i support the mary honeyball report which calls for the establishment of a european framework for eaje services that highlights common values and objectives. in view of the key role played by parents as 'first educators', the text proposes to improve parental leave - which must be of sufficient duration to enable parents to play their leading role in the education of their children in the early years of their lives - and encourages member states to invest in parental education programmes and to provide other forms of assistance to parents who require additional support. of course, this requires additional investment from the 27 and i ask them to allocate appropriate resources to the eeig services. i believe that education should be a political priority.
in writing. the barcelona european council in 2002 set the objectives of establishing, by 2010, reception facilities for at least 90% of children between the ages of 3 and the age of compulsory schooling, and for at least 33% of children under the age of 3. unfortunately, we are still far from the end. yet the number and quality of early childhood facilities are crucial for europe. indeed, from an early age, the care, learning and awareness of children are crucial to their future education. moreover, their parents should not have to sacrifice their career ambitions because of the lack of facilities to accommodate their young children. the report rightly points out, however, that each country has a different conception and model for childcare, which should be respected. the european parliament's report shows that the eu, far from wanting to sell out early childhood care in the name of free competition in services, leaves the choice of the education model to the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which advocates public policies for early childhood that are in the right direction. while taking into account the diversity of systems and traditions in early childhood education and care in the eu, the report emphasises an approach focused on the needs of the child and the impact of early learning on schooling and school building. it clearly highlights the issues of early childhood care and equal access to education for all, and in particular for children of immigrant families - whatever their situation - and particularly emphasises these issues in the context of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it also stresses the need to provide stable employment, quality training and a good social protection system for staff involved in early childhood care.
in writing. this resolution was adopted following the commission's proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania. unfortunately, voting on a resolution is the only way parliament can make its voice heard in the fisheries partnership agreements (fpas). at present, parliament has the power to intervene only after the negotiations have been concluded, leaving it with little choice but to approve these agreements or to refuse to ratify them, leaving it with very little room for manoeuvre. the treaties provide that parliament is to be 'immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure'. it is therefore essential and legitimate that we ask to be associated with the commission and the european council in these negotiations. this is not a new problem and the members of the fisheries committee regularly ask the european commission about it. it is regrettable that we cannot give a binding opinion on our priorities in relation to the allocation of european funds to the countries concerned, even though parliament has the power to exercise financial control.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, not in order to establish protectionist barriers, but because the european union can no longer be the only one to respect the rules of the game. we can no longer ignore the social and economic dumping of emerging countries, especially china, which are winning markets at prices that defy all competition in the countries of the union, in defiance of social rights and state aid legislation, while the markets of these countries are inaccessible to european companies. we can no longer be naive: the survival of our businesses and our jobs depends on it. finally, i welcome the fact that the amendments tabled by the socialist group concerning compliance with the labour, social and environmental standards in force in the member states in the context of public procurement have been widely adopted: this shows a real awareness and a positive and necessary change. it is now up to the commission to take full advantage of this call.
in writing. i welcome the adoption today of the joint resolution of the european parliament on equal access to public procurement in the european union and in third countries and on the revision of the legal framework for public procurement, including concessions, which i was a co-signer of. the proper functioning of public procurement is essential to stimulate the single market. it is therefore necessary to clarify and improve the legislative framework governing their allocation, given their role as a catalyst for the recovery of the union economy. the european union must act with realism and pragmatism, and above all without any naivete, when it comes to access to public procurement contracts in the european union for companies from third countries. it is not a question of opposing the opening up of our markets, but rather, and quite legitimately, of advocating reciprocal access in this area, not by closing our public markets but by ensuring that our partners outside the european union open theirs in an equivalent way and, if necessary, develop appropriate mechanisms to achieve this objective of reciprocity and balance.
in writing. the questioning of public-public partnerships, the downward revision of the requirements of public authorities (guarantees of the general interest, need i remind you?), the orientation of the choices of these same public authorities to promote competition... these are just a few examples of the tremendous 'advances' promised in the european commission's green paper on public procurement. the text does not merely endorse such nonsense but makes the fight against protectionist measures the central point of its message. i'm against all these policies. i vote against it.
in writing. public procurement plays a crucial role in stimulating the single market, developing innovation, enhancing growth, and supporting employment and competitiveness in the eu. but to do that, they have to work well. for this reason, as the text of this resolution, which i support, recalls, it is important that the question of simplifying and clarifying the rules for the award of public contracts be answered quickly. it also seems to me essential that access to public procurement be improved as quickly as possible for smes - which represent 99% of all european enterprises and more than 100 million jobs! in addition, in order to support their activities, i call on the european commission to implement the principle of reciprocity and to consider new ways of improving access for european companies to public contracts outside the union, so as to guarantee a level playing field for european and foreign companies competing for the award of public contracts.
in writing. this vote is important because the commission must take the necessary measures to prevent unfair competition and non-reciprocity in access to public contracts vis-à-vis third countries. it is not a question of putting up protectionist barriers, but the union can no longer be the only one to respect the rules of the game. we can no longer ignore the social and economic dumping of companies from emerging countries who are winning markets in eu countries, in defiance of social rights and state aid legislation, when the markets of these countries are inaccessible to european companies! but we must not forget that the major industrialized countries, although signatories to international agreements, do not follow the rules either! after years of inaction, the commission seems determined to act, and it is necessary: the survival of our businesses and our jobs depends on it. finally, i welcome the adoption of the amendments by the socialist group concerning compliance with the labour, social and environmental standards in force in the member states in the context of public procurement. it is now up to the commission to take full advantage of this call.
in writing. the commission must adopt emergency measures to remedy the difficult economic situation facing many european fishermen as a result of the increase in oil prices. this includes increasing the de minimis ceiling for public aid from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per three-year period and per beneficiary company. beyond compensation, a longer-term strategy is needed to enable fishermen, but also professionals in other sectors, such as farmers or road hauliers, to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels. the commission must therefore encourage, at both european and national level, investment in new technologies to increase the energy efficiency of maritime, land and air transport.
in writing. the adoption of a parliament resolution on the crisis in the european fisheries sector due to the increase in oil prices is an opportunity for me to stress the urgency of helping fishermen. in a context where recruitment is proving increasingly difficult and the practices to be adopted are becoming more restrictive, the increase in fuel prices is making conditions even more difficult in this crisis-ridden sector. the sharp increase in oil prices has weighed heavily on the operating costs of fishing vessels, which has reduced their income between 2008 and 2010. as the elected representative of a port city, it is my duty to demand that the commission authorise the increase in the ceilings for de minimis aid. this would reduce the pressure on fishermen to live with the income from their activity without hindering the renewal of stocks. the future reform of the cfp will have to seek the support of fishermen: showing them already that the european union is aware of their needs would be a good start.
in writing. i wanted to support this resolution which calls on the commission to take strong measures to support the fisheries sector. the rise in oil prices is causing a real crisis in this sector. the crisis, which started as a cyclical one, has become structural and threatens the economic viability of this activity. operating costs have skyrocketed, and are weighing heavily on the incomes of the fishermen, to the extent that the entire production chain and all coastal regions are now affected. i therefore welcome the call from our assembly for more flexibility in the de minimis aid system. despite a difficult budgetary environment, fishermen would not understand if the union did not act to address their concerns. the resolution also calls for special attention to be paid to small-scale coastal fishing and the regions concerned. i think this is essential, because if the whole sector is concerned, the increase in the energy bill is more fragile for small-scale fishing than for industrial fishing. i believe that in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures are required. i shall therefore be attentive to the proposals that the commission will make to reassure and support our fishermen.
in writing. smes are essential to the dynamism of the european economy. these enterprises, which employ fewer than 250 people and have a turnover of less than €50 million, number 23 million in the eu, represent 99% of european enterprises, and employ almost 70% of the private sector workforce. in a context of difficult recovery and increasing international economic competition, the establishment of a european strategy is not too much. the small business act aims to increase entrepreneurship in europe and help businesses to grow. it is therefore imperative to reduce red tape and to set up a modern administration adapted to the needs of smes. the commission must therefore establish a unified system for business creation. it would also be useful to introduce an 'sme test' to assess the impact of all future legislation on smes and to verify that it will not hamper the growth potential of these enterprises.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the revision of the small business act, which adapts european support measures for smes to the new context arising from the 2008 economic crisis and brings them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. smes have been the first to be hit by the financial and banking crisis of recent years, which has reduced their access to finance and markets. the new version of the small business act should therefore provide greater support for innovation by smes by diversifying funding instruments and minimising the administrative burdens faced by smes.
in writing. the european parliament today supported the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union, which represent over 100 million jobs and make a vital contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. the aim was to assess progress made and to identify new actions to address the challenges of the economic crisis. the role of smes has improved markedly, but there is still work to be done. smes continue to face considerable problems in expanding their activities or even in surviving. it is therefore necessary to continue the process of reducing bureaucracy through increased control and smart regulation. the status of a european private company must therefore be decided on swiftly; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. at the same time, we must ensure that the sme test is properly applied in all new legislative proposals, particularly at national level. finally, as smes play a key role in european innovation, it is necessary to continue to simplify the financing of research and development in order to strengthen their innovation capacity throughout the innovation cycle.
in writing. smes account for 99% of enterprises in the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the revision of the small business act, a resolution which recognises the vital role of smes in the european economy. i support a policy framework that goes even further in helping smes in times of economic crisis, and in many areas. i welcome smart regulation, which reduces the administrative burden on these first-class economic players and facilitates their access to finance and new markets, so that they can invest and develop. finally, it is important to remember that research, innovation and training must be supported if our smes are to benefit fully from the single market.
in writing. another text that aims to lower the level of public authorities' requirements in favour of entrepreneurs. the european small business act and its revision are not concerned with the general interest or the employees of smes. the only merit of this resolution, which is common to all the groups except mine, is that it regrets this state of affairs and boasts of energy efficiency, which it undermines by promoting exports at all costs. hypocritical and malicious. i abstain to encourage intent and sanction hypocrisy.
in writing. ninety-nine per cent of european enterprises are smes. two thirds of private sector jobs are provided by the sme sector. more than half of european value added is generated by smes. there will be no real economic recovery, no long-term economic growth, without a thorough action by the public authorities, local, national and european, in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises. with the adoption of the small business act in 2008, the european commission took a first decisive step towards small and medium-sized enterprises by introducing the 'think small first' principle in all areas of legislation. despite the many proposals that have been completed in three years - i am thinking in particular of the directive on late payment - much progress remains to be made in facilitating the activities of small and mediumsized enterprises, not only in view of the administrative burdens they face but also in view of the difficulties they encounter in accessing finance. the european commission must continue on the path it set out with the sba in 2008. that is the call made by this resolution, which i support.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the revision of the sme pact, presented by the european commission in february 2011. this revision is in line with the current framework of the pact, including the reduction of administrative and bureaucratic burdens and burdens. the commission's proposal to harmonize tax systems must not reduce the tax burden on small businesses once again, while workers are being hit by austerity plans. while the revision aims to improve access to finance for smes, it ignores social and environmental issues, not even referring to the european commission's project for a social entrepreneurship initiative announced for the end of this year. the revision of the sba does open a small gap in favour of the social economy, but its weakness in relation to the issues surrounding these other forms of enterprise. like the sma, the revision of the sba does not draw the consequences of the monti report to restore citizens' confidence in the european union. it is therefore still part of the same ultra-liberal logic of european construction, centred first and foremost on the market and its needs, which we have condemned for years.
in writing. european smes are the lungs of our economic activity. their development, modernisation and competitiveness must be at the heart of our economic strategy. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the small business act, which aims to unlock the growth potential of smes. there is still a lot to be done to simplify the regulatory environment and the administrative procedures which are too burdensome for the activity and dynamism of our companies. i welcome the approaches advocated in this report, such as the creation of a european private company statute. this would help our smes to take full advantage of the single market, allowing them to carry out their cross-border activities without having to fulfil obligations that are often onerous and discouraging. i therefore call on the council to take a swift decision on this initiative. finally, we must support innovative smes by facilitating their access to diversified financing. this is achieved by significantly simplifying the use of european funds, which still lack flexibility. these funds exist and i believe they must be mobilised to support more effectively the development of the real economy, innovation and employment.
in writing. 'an innovation union' remains the most important community initiative for the development of an integrated european research and innovation strategy. increasing the pace of research and innovation is crucial to building a fair and competitive economic model, to securing the jobs of the future, to moving towards sustainable resource management, to addressing energy challenges or to boosting a knowledge-based society. innovation is therefore one of the major challenges facing the european union in terms of employment, the environment and development, and will have a real impact on citizens. as both drivers and beneficiaries of innovation, european citizens must therefore be able to participate fully in this 'innovation union' in order to ensure its success, as we have stressed in this report. finally, we wanted to emphasize the need for an innovation policy and the added value of a coordinated approach at european level. to tackle the major shared societal and economic challenges of european society, we need ambitious initiatives, so we now await the legislative phase of the commissioner for research and innovation's action.
in writing. in the face of a world economy in crisis, the european parliament stressed the importance of making europe more innovative and more efficient, adapting to the new challenges of the 21st century. it is essential to encourage the maximum involvement of all the actors involved: smes, industry, universities, governments... everyone has a role to play. for example, we need to modernise our education systems and address the skills shortage in science and engineering. we will only get out of the crisis if we support innovation. the european union must allow the creation of new financing instruments which encourage research expenditure and private investment. in addition, public-private collaboration through the implementation of partnerships is an important way of encouraging a more innovative economy. i believe that the adoption of the single european patent is essential to facilitate the transition to trade outside the community. patents are currently far too expensive: it is essential to reduce the costs of their creation. finally, in the face of the phenomenon of 'brain drain', it is important to promote the retention of researchers in europe! without them, funding and other mechanisms are of no use.
in writing. european innovation scores have so far remained very low. innovation should help to address key societal challenges such as population ageing, the need for sustainable resource management or economic recovery. that is why i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which places particular emphasis on the concept of social innovation and stresses the active role that regions and local authorities can play in innovation. finally, we must promote a balanced system of intellectual property rights protection which respects the rights of inventors while offering our citizens the widest possible access to knowledge. these are the challenges that innovation can help to meet in the future.
in writing. the eu's innovation lag has not been bridged despite the lisbon strategy. in a context of budgetary constraints, which exclude the use of public funds, and increased global competition, europe must react to get back on the innovation track. it seems to me essential to focus on structural reforms that will remove the obstacles that are holding back the considerable potential for innovation in europe. i therefore supported this report, which points in particular to the high costs of filing patents in each member state and calls for a rapid agreement on the single european patent. i am also pleased to see the proposals of my political family taken up, in particular the creation of a european innovation fund, which will simplify access to european loans for our smes. unlocking europe's innovation capacity calls for a minimum r&d spending threshold in each member state, which would ensure a fair sharing of the effort and prevent the development of a two-speed europe that would disrupt eu cohesion and governance. this is essential if europe is to maintain its position at the top of the world economy.
in writing. while most domestic workers are precarious workers, often discriminated against and sometimes exploited, the employment committee decided to adopt a resolution at the same time as asking the european commission about its action towards this category of workers. in june, the international labour organization (ilo), meeting for its annual conference, is expected to adopt a convention on domestic workers calling for domestic workers to be treated equally with other workers and for all conditions to be met for decent work. we support the ilo's stated ambition in our resolution. this is only the first step, and we will then have to ensure that the member states ratify this convention once it has been adopted.
in writing. the international labour organisation (ilo) is currently working on a convention on domestic workers. the adoption of such an ilo domestic workers convention will be an essential element in ensuring respect for the human, social and employment rights of domestic workers. domestic work accounts for between 5% and 9% of total employment. this work is often precarious, undervalued and unreported.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, in order to make it possible to transform what is too often an operating report into a report on law, in a field which represents between 5 and 9% of total employment in the european union. we need to ensure that all those who work with our seniors have the freedom to associate, have time off, and not be subject to harassment and arbitrariness. this is why we wanted to send a strong message of support to the ilo and the trade unions ahead of the negotiations which will open in june at the 100th international labour conference for the adoption of these new instruments. we regret, however, that the right accepts the concern for undocumented domestic workers while refusing to recognize that it is far too often undocumented workers who are the first victims of precarious situations and abuse.
in writing. in europe, nearly two out of three immigrant women have low-skilled jobs, often in personal care or domestic work. these women contribute to our economy and yet suffer from very degraded working conditions and violations of their most basic rights. the international labour conference in june this year will be the occasion for the members of the international labour organisation to adopt a 'convention on decent work for domestic workers'. this instrument is a step forward for the rights of workers worldwide, since it extends the standards of labour law to a category which is currently excluded, that of domestic workers. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which must commit themselves to ratifying the convention. at european level, we must also stop looking at public immigration and labour policies separately and systematically. it is not right that domestic workers are forced into informal work, with no respect for their rights, because of too strict and inadequate immigration regulations.
in writing. i fully support the adoption, ratification and implementation of an ilo convention on domestic work. domestic workers are often working in precarious conditions, are often in irregular administrative situations which increase their vulnerability, and are often subject to discrimination, inequality and unfair or abusive treatment. yet their services are indispensable to our society, from early childhood to care for the elderly. we must have a legal framework that strengthens the rights of these workers and promotes decent working conditions.
in writing. the precarious position of workers is at the heart of the logic of domination of the oligarchy, in europe as elsewhere. among the various forms of organized precariousness, there is one that is more difficult to eradicate than the others, namely that of domestic workers. this report supports the drafting of an ilo convention to protect the rights of these workers, especially those who work in the shadows. it also denounces the proliferation of atypical contracts, a sign of the growing precariousness of the population. i support this initiative, but i regret that it has no real weight.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on member states to commit themselves to the ilo draft convention on domestic workers. this agreement can help to combat the unacceptable working conditions of too many workers in this sector, who are mainly women and many of whom are immigrant workers, especially those without papers. it will complement other ilo conventions or other international organisations. the european parliament also called for the eu and its member states to ratify the international convention on the protection of the rights of migrant workers. i regret, however, that the epp, thanks in particular to the abstention of a number of socialist members, has had an amendment adopted which refuses to put immigrant workers, particularly those without papers, on an equal footing with all other employees. this amendment is part of the increasingly negative perception of immigrants which fuels xenophobia. it will then be necessary to implement the provisions of the convention, which is not the easiest thing to do, but we consider the approach to be positive.
in writing. the report sends a clear message: the european union must integrate a coherent and coordinated cultural strategy into its foreign policy. the links linking europe and the countries of the southern mediterranean in particular are undergoing profound changes. a wind of freedom is blowing in the arab world. culture is a decisive asset. it is playing for a living and sustainable democracy. cultural and educational exchanges encourage the emergence of an organised civil society. cultural cooperation is also one of the keys to the success of the union for the mediterranean. it brings people together to share, to dialogue, to respect and to understand each other better in everyday life.
in writing. it was important that the european parliament send a strong message to remind how much diversity, heritage and cultural exchange must be promoted in all eu external actions. culture, a factor of integration, tolerance and mutual understanding, is an essential component of our societies and must be promoted in our diplomatic efforts to promote human rights and democracy. however, the report stresses that the cultural dimension of external action is still underdeveloped and undercoordinated and that a common and coherent strategy is needed in this area. we also renewed our support for a free internet, condemning censorship and the threats it poses to human rights, but also to access and sharing of the world's cultural heritage. while european citizens share a common set of cultural values, it is by speaking with one voice that we will best serve european interests.
in writing. many people question the reality of european culture, often contrasting it with a europe of cultures or even a europeanization of cultures. for those of us who believe that europe has an identity, values, the answer is obvious: there is a european cultural identity. it is this cultural dimension that the eu must take more into account in its diplomatic efforts, particularly with a view to promoting human rights, democracy and development in third countries. to this end, the high representative should establish a directorate-general for cultural diplomacy within the european external action service, and appoint a person responsible for cultural relations and the promotion of european culture in each eu representation in third countries. in parallel, consideration should be given to the introduction of cultural visas for artists and other cultural professionals.
in writing. by voting in favour of the marietje schaake report, i am advocating the establishment of a genuine european cultural diplomacy to promote our values outside the eu. thinking of culture as a strategic element of foreign policy would indeed allow europe to catch up with certain states - china in particular is investing heavily in cultural diplomacy to improve its image and attract tourists. europe must do the same if it is to continue to play a major role on the world stage. the report proposes several measures to this end: for example, that one person be appointed in each eu representation in third countries to coordinate cultural relations and interactions between the eu and these countries, or that the draft organisational chart of the eeas include posts relating to cultural aspects and that a coordination unit be created. i also think it is appropriate that third countries should be more involved in eu programmes on culture, mobility, youth, education and training: young people from these countries should have easier access to these programmes.
in writing. in 1990, joseph nye, a prominent american professor, coined the concept of "soft power" in his book "bound to lead". what does it mean ? soft power is the ability for an international actor to influence others through non-coercive means, including cultural dynamism. why is it that the united states, after a quarter of a century, is still the superpower we know? because, in addition to their military arsenal, they manage to export their culture and ideas, and make them attractive. europe must do the same; it must defend its cultural model and its values on the international stage. the european parliament, through this report, is measuring the influence that europe can have if it succeeds in adding a cultural dimension to its diplomacy. i therefore support the recommendations contained in this report. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a spectator of the world.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the cultural dimensions of the eu's external action, which affirms that culture must be at the heart of european diplomacy. despite their diversity, europeans share many strong values, such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which must be heard on the international stage. this 'europe brand' must be carried by true ambassadors. i welcome the new proposals, such as the creation of a culture division within the european external action service, or the appointment of a cultural attaché for each member country. it is by coordinating national initiatives that a europe of culture can emerge. the development of new information technologies makes culture accessible to the greatest number. i believe that the european union must seize this opportunity to assert its cultural exceptionalism and encourage creativity. i voted in favour of this report, which considers our culture no longer as a legacy of the past but as one of the great strengths of european diplomacy of tomorrow.
in writing. cultural and creative industries are crucial for european citizens because of their economic and cultural nature. while these industries contribute to the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and the development of a european cultural heritage, they also contribute to economic development by stimulating employment, economic growth and wealth creation. with this vote we are clearly committed to greater recognition of the cultural sector, stressing that its potential remains great as it still faces legal or economic obstacles. in order to increase this potential, we therefore propose concrete solutions, such as a european licensing system, or improved access to credit and microfinance. we also affirm the enormous advancement the internet represents for our societies, even if it raises new challenges, such as ensuring access for all or the economic model of the cultural sector. the european parliament has therefore clearly called for increased support for cultural actors, aware of the crucial role of culture in european society.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs sanchez-schmid, which contains proposals to encourage the development of cultural and creative industries. the report calls for the creation of a european status for artists, so that they can benefit from satisfactory working conditions and appropriate tax, labour, social protection and copyright measures to improve their mobility within the european union. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to preserve the specific nature of certain professions and the transmission of knowledge, especially in the cultural, creative and craft sectors, and to guarantee mechanisms for the transmission of knowledge.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the sanchez-schmid report on the development of cultural and creative industries. with almost 14 million jobs involved and growth continuing even in times of crisis, continued support for these industries remains essential, given their significant economic and cultural contribution. the creation of a european status for artists, the introduction of a reduced vat rate for cultural goods and the improvement of the dissemination of legal digital offers are all appropriate and essential measures for the european union's international cultural influence.
in writing. the cultural and creative industries account for 5 million jobs and 2.6% of eu gdp. they are one of the main drivers of european growth, as they create new jobs and stimulate innovation. they also add value as a factor of social cohesion and play a major role in promoting the eu's cultural and linguistic diversity. it is therefore crucial, from both an economic and a social point of view, to support these industries. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i therefore encourage the member states and the european commission to promote both artistic and cultural education at all ages, from primary to higher or vocational education, and the entrepreneurial skills of cultural professionals - including in the context of lifelong learning. to enable these industries to develop, it is also essential to improve access to finance for professionals in this sector: setting up microfinance, developing public-private sponsorship and partnerships, thinking about the introduction of new innovative financial instruments, or training banking professionals in the specificities of these industries.
in writing. i voted against this report, which is dragging cultural goods towards a logic of market and competition. the 'cultural industries' and, therefore, the cultural goods they produce cannot be treated as businesses like any other on the grounds that they are wealth generators and potentially job creators. first and foremost, they must continue to be recognised as a means of empowerment for the greatest number of people and as a tool for sharing knowledge and experience. it is therefore urgent to reaffirm the principle of cultural exceptionalism in all areas, otherwise the fine phrases about the driving role of the creative industries, the recognition of a status for artists, or the desire to find a balance between the dissemination of digital works and the fair remuneration of creators, will remain wishful thinking in the face of the cultural desert that will be established.
in writing. the evolution of our development model, which has now turned towards the knowledge economy, has made culture a strategically important sector. i welcome the adoption of this report, which proposes ways of making better use of europe's cultural resources. in my view, the unlocking of the creative industries' potential must include a review of the european copyright management system, in order to allow the creative industries to take better advantage of the single market. the system for acquiring licences is, as the report points out, far too complex and calls for the establishment of a single point of sale for the payment of copyright. i also believe that there is a need to stimulate creativity by introducing a specific tax on innovative products such as digital cultural content. it is not right that these products should be subject to full vat while other cultural products benefit from tax rebates. in my vote i wanted to call on the commission and the council to respond to the european parliament's request for concrete measures to take full advantage of the growth potential of this sector. only an ambitious and joint approach can preserve europe's cultural exceptionalism.
in writing. sarajevo, a multicultural city that is a true model of tolerance, undoubtedly holds a special place in european history and culture. it was in sarajevo that the assassination that started world war i in 1914 took place. it was also the site of the longest siege of a capital city in modern warfare history, from 1992 to 1996, during the conflict in bosnia and herzegovina. as the city, which wishes to turn its back on the past and looks forward with enthusiasm to its future in europe, will be celebrating several important anniversaries in 2014, i would like sarajevo to be designated as european capital of culture that year.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the un report, published on 11 april, highlights the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in sri lanka in the context of the conflict between the forces of mr rajapaksa's government and the tamil tigers for independence. the clashes in may and june 2009 resulted in war crimes and crimes against humanity, and thousands of civilians were killed. we cannot be satisfied with impunity for the perpetrators and perpetrators of these crimes. the rajapaksa government has done everything possible to prevent the un report from being published and even disputes its conclusions. in sri lanka, the press is silenced, journalists are subjected to intimidation and arbitrary detention. the main opposition news website was blocked by the judicial authorities, and access to refugee camps is still severely restricted, including for the united nations. the tamil minority is the victim of a genocide that does not say its name. we must urgently send a european parliament observer mission to northern sri lanka to see what is really going on there and to recall the fundamental principle of the right of self-determination of peoples. (the speaker agrees to answer two 'blue card' questions (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, i used the word as a metaphor, mainly to mark the phenomenon. but i made it clear that's not the name. we'll have to check. in any case, what is happening to the tamil minority cannot be regarded as a mere trivial act.
you're right, we've already sent a mission and i recognize the greatness of this mission since you worked on it. but we must also exert pressure, that is to say, we must absolutely renew this kind of operation.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, sri lanka is a country in pain. the civil war officially ended almost two years ago and we know the circumstances under which it took place. and in this country, the un has particularly failed. the ngo reports are overwhelming. thousands of civilians were killed between january and may 2009. abuses were committed on both sides, but it seems clear that pro-government forces deliberately shelled areas where they had encouraged the civilian population to take refuge. since then, however, the sri lankan government has been working to clear its name and to prevent access to justice for what should be called a minimum of victims of war crimes. it has repeatedly tried to underestimate the number of civilians in the conflict zone, while denying them all humanitarian aid, including food, water and medical care. the tamil tigers have their share of responsibility for these horrors. they have recruited child soldiers and used the civilian population as human shields, but that does not take away from the responsibilities of the government authorities in place. that doesn't justify anything. the un has waited a long time to denounce the situation in that country. worse still, the sri lankan government has increased its efforts to prevent the publication of the latest report and to dismiss its conclusions. we can only welcome the report of 11 april. the resolution before us today is a step in the right direction. i wish she'd gone even a little further. it is high time that international justice did its work in sri lanka and elsewhere.
member of the commission. − mr president, on 25 april 2011 the united nations made public the advisory report of the panel of experts appointed by the un secretary-general on accountability in relation to the armed conflict in sri lanka. the panel found credible allegations which, if proven, would indicate that serious violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law were committed by the sri lankan military and the ltte, some of which would amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity. the panel also makes a series of recommendations to the un secretary-general and to the government of sri lanka which, in the panel’s words, will serve as the framework for an ongoing and constructive engagement between the secretary-general and the government of sri lanka on accountability. recommendations include the launch of genuine investigations by the government of sri lanka and the establishment of an independent international mechanism by the un secretary-general. the un has stated that the un secretary-general is carefully reviewing the reports, conclusions and recommendations, and the un high commissioner for human rights has urged the sri lankan government to quickly carry out the measures suggested by the panel and ensure justice. the government of sri lanka, on its side, has rejected the report in the strongest terms. earlier this week, high representative catherine ashton issued a declaration on behalf of the eu reiterating the eu view that an independent process to address these extremely serious allegations should contribute to strengthening the process of reconciliation and ensuring lasting peace and security in sri lanka. the high representative has stressed that the issue of accountability should be seen as an essential part of the process of national reconciliation. the eu therefore hopes that the government of sri lanka will recognise the constructive objectives of the report, and encourages it to engage with the un secretary-general on its contents.
, in writing. the years-long conflict between the sri lankan government and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (ltte) ended in may 2009 with more than 90,000 deaths. many sri lankans who had been displaced by violence in their country have returned home since the conflict ended. however, there are still about 75,000 refugees who continue to live a difficult life in camps in tamil nadu, india. sri lanka has a dual challenge: - to recover from a long-term crisis. the report by the un panel of experts, released on 25 april, found the allegations of violations of international humanitarian law and human rights credible. it is essential, in the interests of justice and reconciliation in sri lanka, that an impartial, transparent and independent investigation be conducted. - to prepare for the various natural disasters such as floods, landslides, cyclones and drought which the country is prone to.
author. - mr president, we are once again looking at the situation in azerbaijan. the democratic situation in this country is quite dramatic. however, it is a country which is a significant partner in the european union's eastern partnership. opposition parties and ngos have repeatedly denounced human rights abuses, political repression and the corruption of the regime. the values of democracy and human rights are, in theory, an integral part of the values of the european union. should we not learn from what is happening in the so-called arab countries and demand from our eastern partners what we have not been able to demand from certain governments, notably tunisian, libyan or egyptian? should we not, commissioner, make sure that democracy can finally reign in these countries, that we have a minimum of requirements in this area? i think that the resolution before us is at least a minimum resolution. we have therefore not joined this resolution, we will simply abstain on the vote.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this is a request for courtesy, to allow commissioner olli rehn to attend the european environmental economic accounts and then the imf. it has no political content. i hope therefore that all the other groups will agree to do this service to our commissioner, who is, moreover, at the moment very much 'on the bridge'.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for me, politics is about finding the best possible solutions to the problems that arise. but how can we do that if we do not fully understand the problems and the possible solutions? this is a fundamental question, not just in the field of environmental policy. it is therefore essential that policy-makers have reliable and as comprehensive information as possible about the world today and the state of the environment. this was the conclusion reached by the european council in june 2006, when it asked the european union and its member states to extend national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development. i welcome this initiative and the european commission's proposal, as it will provide more information on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes and material flows within the economy. however, this proposal will have to be amended when we vote tomorrow to ensure that the data collected are reliable and useful for reflection, but also and above all to ensure that all member states are concerned by this approach. how can european policies be defined without data on the situation in all the member states? finally, i would like to express my support for two strong ideas advocated by the epp group: the possibility of the european commission adopting delegated acts must be reviewed every five years. the revision clause - the second strong point of this regulation - is indispensable. in a few years, we'll need new data, but one thing at a time. this draft regulation is a real step forward. let's keep going in that direction.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i am wondering why you wanted to make this statement. you conclude your speech by saying: 'in essence, we are now fully involved in the reform of economic governance and the question of the external representation of the euro area will arise later.' let me not share your approach, because one of the main difficulties facing the european union today is the question of the external representation of the euro area. we can see that the currency war can now, with a flick of the wrist, sweep away all the efforts that are required of the peoples of the euro zone in the name of austerity and the restoration of sovereign debt situations. europeans cannot be both demanding at home and indifferent to the question of the place of their currency, which is being moved around by the markets abroad. there can be no internal defence if there is no external defence. so let me not share your approach on this point. i know that the task is difficult, but the european parliament has been supporting for several years now the idea that we must move towards external representation of the euro area, particularly within the imf. when dominique strauss-kahn was appointed head of the imf, we were in a very different context - let us admit it - where the question of rotation was raised. he himself said: "i may be the last european to head the imf". but since then the situation has changed considerably. the area where the imf's intervention is most important today is europe. we see that behind these interventions, the question of the intervention of the big american investment banks is not neutral. we also see that the question of the economic situation in the united states could sooner or later be raised and legitimately discussed within the imf. all this creates a much more complex picture than the question of whether it should be this or that person who presides over the destinies of the imf. of course, europeans must be represented, they must be actors in one of the great institutions, but more fundamentally, the questions i ask you are: what policy do we want to implement on the international scene? what mandate should a european have on the international scene, given the internal efforts, the weight of markets outside the european union and its impact on the european situation in terms of investment, speculation and employment? we also believe that whoever is to preside over the imf tomorrow will have a great task to do, namely not to destroy the progress made by dominique strauss-kahn when he moved the lines of the washington consensus a little bit. we are already seeing it today: there is a hardening of the institution; we think that this would be a bad course. finally, the question of the imf's place in the un system will also have to be asked and the europeans, if they have a candidate, must articulate the mandate they will give it to weigh in favour of a global governance that is in line with the challenges we face in the aftermath of this crisis.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am also speaking for mrs lulling and mr langen, who had speaking time, but i assure you that i will not use all the speaking time. i would simply like to remind you, as each of you have done here, that the process of selecting a new managing director of the imf is under way. it is important that the european union expresses a unanimous and strong position, which is supported not only by the individual member states but also by the commission, and you have committed yourself to this, commissioner. many of us in this house, with the exception of mr farage, are keen to see the balance that has been achieved so far between the united states and europe maintained in the allocation of the imf and world bank ceo posts. we fully understand the desire of the emerging countries - and especially the most important of them - to have a more decisive role in the decisions of the imf. in this connection, the reforms undertaken in the governance of this international institution, and in particular those to which you have also referred, commissioner, must be continued. but it is certainly too early to radically alter the balances resulting from the respective financial contributions of the member states to the fund. only one european candidate has launched a real campaign by contacting the various member states. this candidate who is a female candidate has the required qualifications. his skills, political experience, moral authority, perfect command of english, combined with international professional experience, correspond to the robot portrait of an imf director general. this director-general must be - as has been said - consensual and effective at a time when this institution has to play a decisive role in contributing with voluntarism to the restoration of economic and financial equilibrium. our union must therefore do everything necessary to secure the appointment of christine lagarde.
madam president, i think there is something very paradoxical about this debate. the world bank and the imf should be kept in the same place. it is in our european interest that multilateralism should work. and multilateralism will not work with just emerging countries associated here or there, in the g20 or elsewhere. we really need to ask the question in a dynamic, in a perspective. and i find it rather paradoxical that at a time when there is an urgent mobilization to appoint a european to head the imf we are not exemplary, as europeans, to say, commissioner, this is a step on the issue of the external representation of the euro zone. why are you in such a hurry, why are you so eager to appoint a european, if not to take the step you say is not urgent and could be taken tomorrow? if we want to make multilateralism live, then we ourselves must be examples, be consistent and show how it can work tomorrow. the imf has an absolutely major role to play in global governance, and it is not limited to the question of european debt and the sovereign debt situation of europeans in difficulty. this is an essential task, but the imf's role is also, beyond market stability, to help correct the global imbalances that led to this crisis. and today, it is clear that there is an absolutely fundamental issue of governance that you do not put in the balance at all, in how to promote or not this or that candidacy. that is what we socialists are interested in, that the imf should play a role in global governance to correct the imbalances that have led to this crisis.
madam president, commissioner, i am not neglecting, as all my colleagues here are, the method of choosing the future director-general of the international monetary fund, but what is most important to the people is to know what new role this international institution is going to play in helping to overcome the serious economic, financial, budgetary and monetary crises that are currently under way. the international monetary fund needs to be democratized considerably and put at the service of human development, education and employment. the blocking minority which the united states has should, in my view, be removed. the voting rights of emerging countries should be considerably increased. the international monetary fund should be a tool against the speculation that is suffocating the peoples today, an effective tool for the stability of agricultural markets and of all raw materials, to tackle the tax havens we are often told about. instead of monetary war, this institution should carry a new and great project: that of a common world currency for cooperation instead of economic war and competition. this is what we should be talking about first so that people can live better and the bankers can stop feasting on the people.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner geoghegan-quinn, colleagues, we are here today to evaluate the seventh framework programme for research 2007-13, which is worth eur 51 billion. this is the largest programme in the world and this compares with the 17 billion for the 2000-2006 programme, which covered five years, whereas this one covers seven. the negotiations for the seventh framework programme took place in 2006 and cover the period 2007-2013. since that negotiation, we have had three new elements which have led us to reflect on its assessment. first, the european union is emerging from the failure of the lisbon strategy, defined by the european council in 2000, which aimed to make the european union the world's knowledge economy by 2010. we now have the europe 2020 strategy. the second new element is the failure of the constitutional treaty. today, the treaty of lisbon is in force, with new powers. the third new element is the financial crisis that came to us from the united states in 2008. these three new elements make us question the years 2011 to 2013. we are living in extremely fragile post-crisis years and, in these times of scarcity of public money, the sums at stake are significant. the first three years saw 26 billion programmed. we have 28 and a half billion left over for 2011, 2012 and 2013 to plan. we must therefore evaluate the messages we wish to convey to the european commission in order to adapt its research policy to the major challenges of today. i shall be dealing with this in more detail by the members who will be speaking, but i would like to stress two points: firstly, simplification and, secondly, the answer to our major challenges. as regards simplification, my colleague maria carvalho will elaborate on her excellent report and, commissioner, we welcomed the commission's decision of 24 january 2011 on the creation of the single registration system, but we need to go further. we must simplify the future and we must undo the past. you are well aware of all these matters as a former member of the european court of auditors. the three-yearly reform of the financial regulation will enable us to lay the legal basis for this simplification, but it does not seem to me that acting on the tolerable risk of error is the right instrument. we must simplify our regulations and it is by simplifying that we will reduce the number of errors. and if there is a disagreement between the auditors of the european commission and the entities which are audited, i propose that the possibility of independent counter-audits be recognised, and that mediation may be used to avoid having the court of justice decide the disputes which may arise between the audited entities and the european commission. it is absolutely essential, madam commissioner, that we leave this subject. then we have the big challenges. we must increase the participation of industrial enterprises in the framework of this europe 2020 industrial policy, in particular with the european patent; the participation of smes small and medium-sized enterprises and women. infrastructure must be co-financed by the framework programme, but also by the eib, the structural funds and national policies. we must give priority to excellence but also ensure a harmonious distribution of research infrastructures throughout the european union. we do not know today where the nobel prizes will be awarded in five years. we must also respect our international commitments such as iter. finally, in the future, we propose in this report to double the research funds in order to create this european research area, based on the european research council. it is the key to the growth needed to finance our social ambitions and meet our environmental commitments.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this very good report by our colleague audy takes up all our discussions with the players in the sector. i do not want to go back on how they regard our seventh framework programme: indispensable but too complicated and too bureaucratic. i would just like to emphasize two points: first, innovation. parliament has committed itself to promoting it, but this must not be done at the expense of basic research. we know that the results obtained are first of all knowledge. the second is the possibility of exploiting these results in the economic and even industrial sectors. a clear distinction must therefore be drawn between the instrumentalisation of basic research and the valorisation of it. secondly, the financing. we all agree that the budget must be commensurate with the ambitions we have set ourselves. i would venture to say let's be innovative by being consistent. we need not multiply the instruments, let us make them more efficient. as such, the risk-sharing financing mechanism is a real success, but it needs to have a more inclusive approach towards smes and research infrastructures. i would therefore urge the commission to do everything possible to resolve the dispute as quickly as possible and to take account of the options proposed in this report.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank the president of parliament for allowing this debate to take place, which was not originally planned. it was very useful that all the political groups could debate this important subject. i would also like to say, commissioner, how grateful we are to you. i speak for all those who appreciate you. you even have the support of the irish epp. see how on these subjects at least, everything really happens. thank you for what you're doing. we are counting on you, commissioner, not only for simplification but also for the important messages we are sending you. i would like to thank the rapporteurs from all the political groups, my colleagues who tabled many amendments, and the colleagues who have worked on this dossier, and i would also like to address a special message to those from the epp. simplification, thank you, we take note. the words competitiveness-industry raise expectations. we must link research and commercial aspects through the european patent, that is to say, between research and innovation. research must be transformed into growth. we must of course - as president reul has reminded us - give priority to excellence. we must be the best in the world. and we will achieve that through excellence. but we don't know who -- i repeat -- who will be the nobel prize winner in five years or in ten years. the aim is to achieve a balance between excellence and distribution throughout europe. it's like in sports: we need to have the best researchers in the world, just as we'll win with the best players in the world. excellence is the key. finally, we have proposed doubling the funding, but it is not a question of doubling it at the expense of agriculture or the structural funds. the aim is to improve coordination with the member states. the heads of state have told us that we will not increase public taxes. on the other hand, we must ensure better coordination between european funds, national funds and regional funds - some of which are also drawn from european funds - in order to have a coherent and good policy. i will conclude, madam president, on one point. i had proposed - it was not accepted, but it is a subject we will have to address politically - that we have a european research plan for the defence industry. the time has come for the european union and the member states, on the basis of article 45 of the treaty on european union, to consider a major research programme on defence equipment and, of course, on dual-use equipment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement negotiated with canada will strengthen our ties with a major partner country in europe for a long time. we welcome this, but we must be mindful of the full implications and not just the benefits to certain economic sectors or to certain large international investors. this agreement must in particular respect the social and environmental models of both parties, the countries of the european union and canada, and their ability to continue to regulate, to regulate in areas which are sensitive to our societies, and this is not a matter of detail and is not a matter of delaying manoeuvres. as far as public services are concerned, the commission's approach - the negative list approach - is dangerous. it is far too broad and indefinite and we would not want it to become a precedent. in general, the investment chapter must respect the right of both parties to regulate in areas such as the environment, public health, workers' and consumers' rights, industrial policy and cultural diversity. we ask the commission to exclude from the scope of the agreements sectors such as culture, education and public health. in this respect - as has been said by colleagues - the intellectual property part should not be concerned with the manufacturing of generic medicines. we are concerned about the environment and we are asking for investment. as regards the implications of the agreement on the exploitation of the oil sands, this agreement must not lead to the weakening of european legislation on the application of the fuel quality directive. nor should it limit canada's ability to regulate the exploitation of its oil sands in the future in environmental terms. we also ask that in the fisheries sector - at any rate, that is a question we are asking you - the commission should look at the impact on territories such as saint pierre and miquelon. these are european territories which could be seriously affected by the total liberalisation of this sector. finally, i agree with mr kazak that the chapter on sustainable development must include commitments on social and environmental matters and, in particular, the social and environmental responsibility of large multinational companies.
madam president, during the negotiations on the opano agreements, particularly with canada, the head of the european union delegation had promised to give back the french cod quota to the fishermen of saint pierre and miquelon. this commitment has not been kept and today the fishermen, as well as the economy of st. pierre and miquelon, are suffering the consequences. the negotiations currently taking place for an economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union cannot again sacrifice what is left of the economy of st. pierre and miquelon, which is why i tabled an amendment to that effect. i ask the commission to ensure that the strategic commercial interests of st. pierre and miquelon are protected throughout the negotiations that are taking place. commissioner, can you give us a guarantee of that?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is making a statement and is reiterating its priorities in the context of the trade negotiations currently taking place between the european union and canada. if canada is indeed a reliable trading partner of the european union, it is crucial that the european parliament relays the concerns of its citizens both in european territories and in those that are part of the european family, namely the protection and defence of their interests! by european family, i mean the overseas countries and territories (octs) which, although not european territories in the strict sense, have special relations with the european union, and in particular with the member states to which they are attached. in the context of the current trade negotiations, the archipelago of saint pierre and miquelon, canada's neighbour, is particularly concerned. i therefore call on the european commission to defend and safeguard the interests of this country and overseas territory in the north atlantic ocean in the negotiations. thank you.
in writing. canada is one of europe's oldest trading partners. it is therefore appropriate to give substance to this relationship by means of a comprehensive trade agreement. i have, however, some questions about the content of several chapters of the negotiations. first, the eu and canada have different systems of rules of origin. as canada is a member of the north american free trade agreement, the commission must commit itself to finding a satisfactory solution for both industrial products and agricultural or fishery products, so that canada does not become the gateway to europe for products from other members of nafta. the commission will also have to negotiate a common solution for two different geographical indication (gi) systems: in canada, gi is a mere adjective; in europe, it is a real trademark. effective protection of european gi's will require the recognition of the european concept by the canadian authorities. finally, on the public procurement chapter, canada must grant the eu the same access it has granted to the us under its trade agreement, namely the possibility for european companies to bid for contracts from the provinces, territories and certain municipalities.
in writing. impact assessments have important effects on legislative action, which is why further developments are needed, with the establishment of a mechanism independent of these assessments. they should not justify a legislative proposal but should allow an objective examination of the facts. this also applies to scientific opinions of the european food safety authority (efsa), whose methodology has been repeatedly challenged, or to public consultations, whose formulation of questions may presage the answers hoped for by the commission services. to combat these drift in the legislative process, we are calling for a clear methodology, an analysis of the alternatives and the option of taking no action, as well as maximum transparency and strong involvement of parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for speaking first of all about the victims and the sick. the first thing we should think of is the farmers and the farmers who are in a very difficult situation, which we can understand. three points: firstly, we advocate the precautionary principle. it has been applied here, we cannot complain about it, and we must of course accept the consequences. the priority - as peter liese has just mentioned - is obviously human beings, before economic issues, which can always be dealt with. sadly, death is permanent. secondly, i agree with what mrs mcavan has just said about the importance of traceability. we're discussing labeling today. it is absolutely essential that this labelling be complete, that traceability should enable us to know where the products come from. thirdly, on the absolutely essential question of the root of the problem, we have to admit that we don't know everything, admit that we are in scientific uncertainty, admit indeed that, sometimes, we are in ignorance. we can't know everything. we cannot both challenge those who have taken decisions and consider that we should wait. the precautionary principle must prevail here.
mr president, the situation is serious, very serious indeed, because this eceh epidemic is keeping all its mystery. i can only imagine the anguish of the patients affected and we can only deplore the deaths that have occurred. all this must impose a great deal of rigour on our approach to european public health problems and make us understand that it is essential to work with researchers and the pharmaceutical industry to respond effectively to such a situation and also to provide the means to do so. so the bacteria is costing lives, too many lives. it also costs our farmers a lot of money and it dangerously undermines consumer confidence in agricultural production and the agri-food industry, which are certainly the most controlled and safe in the world. after the cucumber, the tomato, the salad, the soybean, who will be the next victim of this health psychosis? the economic consequences for farmers are severe. the alarm system worked very well. the problem is that the european commission has neither the means nor the possibility to check the veracity of the information given by a member state. today, bacteria are moving faster than ever before. the consequences of managing such a health crisis in terms of communication will have to be drawn. a review is necessary. additional checks may need to be considered before accepting the findings of a national or regional health agency as fact. finally, this crisis fully justifies the necessary reinforcement of food traceability. unfortunately, the obligation to indicate the country of origin or place of provenance is now only in a limited number of cases. this obligation should be extended to a wider range of foodstuffs. this would make it possible to identify sources of contamination more quickly in the event of a health crisis and to prevent the consumers concerned more quickly.
mr president, two words to sum up the general tone of our work and the mood of this parliament: 'finally' and still 'a little bit of a pity'. "finally" because, after very long negotiations, we have reached a compromise and the polluter pays principle is really beginning to take shape in this case. it is a pity because, even though things are complicated in the public finances of the various member states, we should have done everything possible to succeed in reinvesting the revenue for the benefit, for example, of priority projects in the transeuropean transport networks. mr kallas, it will be up to the commission to exercise close control. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. here too, it is up to the commission to give the impetus. thirdly, while the current directive provides for heavy goods vehicles of 3.5 tonnes to be covered from 2012, we provide in the agreement for the possibility of exempting them. it's a damaging concession. the commission must play a key role here too, mr kallas. in short, if it is a small compromise, it is a small step, but it is a step nonetheless. we will vote for it!
mr president, in its europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of making our economy greener and our transport more modern. all the european institutions have broadly supported this objective, including almost all the member states and our parliament. in this context, it is therefore regrettable that since 2008 several member states have been busy emptying the new proposal for a 'eurovignette' directive of its content and blocking this dossier. today, however, thanks to the tenacity of our rapporteur - and i would like to congratulate mr saïd el khadraoui here - and the tenacity of the fictitious rapporteurs in their negotiations with the council, we finally have a compromise before us. the text is much less ambitious than the original proposal, but it will make it possible for the first time to put the polluter-pays principle into practice and to internalize the external costs of transport such as noise and co2 emissions. in order to ensure that the eurovignette is not just a tax but actually contributes to the improvement of transport in europe, the member states are also encouraged to reinvest the money collected in the modernisation of transport modes. parliament also succeeded in achieving concrete progress on the interoperability of toll systems and stronger incentives for the use of less polluting heavy goods vehicles. in order to remain consistent with the political objectives that our institution has set itself, i sincerely hope that we can adopt this compromise which is being proposed to us at second reading and thus pave the way for a more sustainable transport policy.
mr president, commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to say that the road toll price, which is capped by the new eurovignette directive, will in future be able to include the costs of noise and air pollution. another point of satisfaction: with this report by el khadraoui and congratulations to mr saïd el khadraoui for his tenacity , we are making clear our desire to see the polluter pays principle incorporated into the cost of road transport. however, we must remain vigilant: it is important to convince some member states, after three years of interinstitutional negotiations, that this point of balance found in this trilogue allows for a genuine environmental protection policy but also an effective economic policy in the development of the european railway. let us also ensure that part of the revenue is properly allocated to infrastructure and to transeuropean transport network projects as indicated. let me also express my regret that the binding nature of the polluter-pays principle has not been retained in this compromise. once again, commissioner, the european commission has lost its grip on certain nationalist and nationalist egos, despite the tenacity of our rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, whom i applaud.
mr president, the fact that we are finally raising the question of taxation of road haulage, the eurovignette, is in itself good news for all europeans. however, we are still far from making road freight transport pay a reasonable share of the costs it represents for our societies: infrastructure wear and tear, pollution, public health, accidents. to live in a city where millions of trucks pass through every year, i can tell you that the suffering of the people is rarely taken into account. and there is the issue that we do not want to discuss in this chamber: the very low wages of the drivers, the terrible working conditions, the driving times that are unacceptable for the safety of all. it is no exaggeration to speak of road-runners. so yes, we must tax the maximum to encourage short-distance, rail, sea and river transport, and impose a social standard across the union and its neighbourhood. but we must tax in an intelligent way, so that it is not the smes/smes in transport, nor road workers and even less consumers who pay, but rather the big shippers and the big order-givers such as the large retailers.
), in writing. the revision of the eurovignette directive is essential to better integrate the cost of pollution generated by road transport, which will now be possible since member states will then be able to take air and noise pollution, and congestion on certain routes, into account when setting the tariff for heavy goods vehicles. in regions like mine, where the alpine roads are congested due to international freight traffic, this is a measure that is expected. this revision is also a first step towards restoring fair competition between european road hauliers, as some member states such as france and germany already apply the polluter pays principle and want the eu to extend it. what matters now is that the proceeds from the eurovignette actually go to projects to improve infrastructure, reduce pollution and protect the environment. i therefore welcome the commitments of the member states to reallocate part of these revenues to the ten-t, a major project to ensure the cohesion of the european territory and to decentralize regions which, like those in the alps, do not have sufficient infrastructure to ensure a modal shift from road to other means of transport.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur and on behalf of the political groups who agree, i ask for the vote on the two reports on the transfer of funds to be postponed. this is the report we are discussing now and the report a7-0076/2011, which is on the ballot five points down the line. this postponement is justified for procedural reasons and is intended to ensure the best possible cooperation with the commission and the council. i therefore call on all of you to vote in favour of postponing this report and the one that follows it in five points.
in writing. i supported the appointment of hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors because he has more than 30 years of professional experience in the management of public bodies and private companies in sweden. the majority of her career has been devoted to improving the situation of private enterprises in sweden as an executive in organisations representing the interests of business in public life. he also has extensive experience in public service as a political official and civil servant. he has been director general of the swedish registration office for companies, an independent public body, as well as state secretary on several occasions. that's why i'm convinced he has the qualifications for the job.
in writing. ms wallis claims that the european parliament has consistent principles on the waiver of immunity for its members. that's a cynical lie. in a case involving me, the luxembourg court ruled in 2010 that parliament had violated my rights as a parliamentarian. and he screwed them again last month, on exactly the same grounds! for to say that immunity must be waived because the speech the member is accused of making was not in the context of his parliamentary activity is absolute legal nonsense. if that were the case, no prosecution would have been possible! this is the framework of the current article 8. by definition, article 9 applies to activities other than those strictly within the framework of this parliament! the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. i am more committed to freedom of expression than the pseudo-democrats in this house and i will consistently refuse to lift the immunity of any of my colleagues, regardless of their political colour, for expressing opinions, however opposed to mine.
in writing. parliamentary immunity is not used to cover ordinary crimes. mrs ágnes hankiss can be tried without her parliamentary activity being called into question. i vote to waive his immunity.
in writing. by applying to participate in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda), the republic of croatia has shown that it shares the interest of the union and its member states in the objectives and achievements of the centre, whose purpose is to collect information on the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable data at european level. that is why i supported the report by our colleague, mrs debora serracchiani, on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the participation of the republic of croatia in the activities of the emcdda.
in writing. as the fictitious rapporteur on this dossier, i voted strongly in favour of this resolution and this agreement, which will allow croatia to participate in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and also in the european information network on drugs and drug addiction (reitox). i therefore fully support croatia's participation in order to enable it to play an active part in the fight against this phenomenon, which is dangerously increasing in importance and devastating effects in europe. according to the observatory's statistics, 75 million europeans have used cannabis and 14 million europeans have used cocaine at least once. it should also be remembered that croatia remains one of the main transit points for drugs trafficking to the european union. the agreement will not only provide factual and objective information on drugs and drug addiction and their impact, but also enable croatia, through the exchange of information and good practice, to better cope with and understand the phenomenon.
in writing. the objective of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is to collect information on the drug phenomenon (trade, market, use) and disseminate it to the member states in order to analyse and better combat this phenomenon. i therefore fully encourage croatia's participation in this observatory so that it can play an active part in the fight against this phenomenon, which is dangerously increasing in importance and devastating effects in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague silvia-adriana ţicău on the applications in transport of global navigation satellite systems. i support the application of gnss functions to different modes of transport and the proper implementation of research and funding in this area.
in writing. the european parliament resolution of 7 june 2011 aims to encourage the european commission to pursue targeted actions to promote the emergence of global satellite navigation systems. the european gnss (global navigation satellite system) and galileo projects are direct competitors to the american gps. our daily lives are now easier. they represent added value for industry but also for transport in europe. that is why i fully support these projects, which will have a wide range of benefits. for civil aviation, air traffic management will be safer. for road traffic, this system will facilitate the collection of tolls, improve safety through geolocalized emergency calls, and monitor road transport. all these areas will be improved by the creation of this european service. i voted for this resolution in order to put pressure on the european and national authorities and to avoid accumulating a backlog which is causing europe to lose infinite potential every day.
in writing. the expected benefits of global satellite navigation systems currently for the european economy are estimated at between €55 and €63 billion over the next 20 years. approximately 6% of the eu's total gdp depends on these applications, which are currently mainly based on the us gps system. in this context, i voted in favour of mrs ticau's own-initiative report, which calls on the commission to provide adequate financial support for the development of applications based on the european global satellite navigation system, egnos and galileo. access to such financing by smes should be particularly encouraged in order to stimulate innovation based on these european systems.
in writing. the adoption of this report is an important step forward as it lays the foundations for the general deployment of global satellite navigation systems, and more specifically the development of egnos, which is to support the establishment of the galileo system. i also voted in favour of it because it will allow the introduction of concrete measures which will facilitate the development of transport in europe and which will have a significant impact on safety and the environment and on improving the flow of traffic for road transport.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has broadened the circumstances in which parliament's consent is required before concluding an international agreement. air transport agreements are now in this category. that is why i support the report by my colleague brian simpson on the introduction of a set of criteria for assessing their content. i therefore believe that balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition, should be promoted, particularly in the areas of public subsidies and social and environmental standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report for two main reasons. firstly, the report calls for a greater role for the european parliament in the context of the new powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon for the conclusion of international agreements with third countries. it stressed the need to strengthen dialogue with the european commission at the various stages of the negotiations and in the follow-up to existing agreements. secondly, the report stresses the need to conclude agreements on aviation safety with third countries where there is a large aircraft manufacturing sector. this is a necessity in the light of the legitimate requirement to ensure ever-increasing aviation safety.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has more powers to intervene in the conclusion of international agreements between the european union and third countries. the report by brian simpson, adopted today, will thus help to define better the role of parliament in international aviation negotiations. i welcome the fact that parliament is insisting in particular that agreements concluded by the european union provide for mutual recognition of standards of safety and security in air transport and for guarantees to better protect passenger rights.
in writing. with the draft directive on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (eurovignette), member states will now have the possibility of taxing air and noise pollution from road transport. this measure, which applies the 'polluter pays' principle, is intended to encourage the gradual renewal of trucks on our roads. it could also provide a new source of finance for cleaner transport such as rail and waterways. i therefore supported the report by mr el khadraoui. however, i call on the member states to exercise caution when introducing the euro badge: it must not jeopardise the commercial and financial health of transport companies or of companies which use transport.
in writing. while i welcome the agreement reached on the eurovignette directive, i am still far from fully satisfied. by approving the compromise reached between parliament and the council, we are putting an end to long years of negotiations. it is a step in the right direction, but it is a minimum agreement with no restrictions! the member states will only have the possibility, but not the obligation, of making the heavyweights pay for the external costs they cause. the fact remains that the idea is being put forward and that is the real positive point which allows me to vote for the compromise. by introducing the polluter pays principle for heavy goods vehicles, the directive paves the way for the internalization of the external costs of transport to be recognised in our public policies. the principle of transparency of revenue and investment is also respected, which we hope will set a precedent in the evaluation of public policies: the states will have to report to the commission regularly. the low threshold for the allocation of revenue to tens (15%) is nevertheless regrettable. and we will have to ensure that the commitment made by the states to invest the proceeds in sustainable projects is implemented.
in writing. parliament has just given its consent to the new rules on road transport taxation, thus guaranteeing the development and financing of a transport policy more in line with environmental requirements in terms of pollution and noise. if road hauliers are now required to pay for the air and noise pollution generated by lorries, member states will, in return, be obliged to reinvest the revenue from this charge in transeuropean transport networks and, above all, in more efficient and less polluting transport systems. this taxation is a step forward but it is not enough. it is time for the member states to commit themselves to a genuine policy of developing freight transport and thus to make coherent use of all rail and road transport infrastructures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr saïd el khadraoui, on the revision of the european legislation on the eurovignette, which will allow heavy goods vehicles to be taxed. for the first time, the 'polluter pays' principle will apply to road transport and heavy goods vehicles will be able to be taxed for noise and air pollution when travelling on motorways in the european union. this is an innovative initiative which i welcome, since it allows the environmental and social costs to be taken into account, and is not limited to the cost of infrastructure. it is regrettable, however, that the european parliament's ambition for strong environmental requirements has been held back by the council of ministers, on the pretext of excessive additional costs. nevertheless, this report is a real step forward in the field of the environment.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on heavy goods vehicle taxation because it endorses a difficult agreement on the revision of the 'eurovignette directive'. this 1999 directive, revised in 2006, aims to harmonise the taxation of heavy goods vehicles. the adopted revision is a first step towards internalising external costs in road transport and thus towards a concrete application of the 'polluter pays' principle. air and noise pollution from traffic will be taxed electronically at a rate of 3 to 4 cents per kilometre, depending on the euro class of the vehicle, the location and the congestion rate. the revision now makes it possible to better manage traffic by increasing tolls during peak periods (up to 175% over 5 hours) but also provides for a corresponding reduction in off-peak periods in order not to penalise road transport companies financially. the resolution also calls on the member states to use the money raised to finance certain types of sustainable transport projects.
in writing. the report has the merit of holding the member states to account. about the gifts they give to the automakers of small trucks first. this is a good thing because these irresponsible practices must stop. the allocation of the revenue from the euro-vignette then. again, opacity cannot be the rule! these revenues should be used exclusively for environmental policies. it is unfortunate, however, that the text has come to such a standstill. there is almost nothing on the presentation to the euro vi vehicle manufacturers. worse, the inclusion of the euro-vignette in the carbon market is promoted. i am voting for this text to encourage efforts and to validate the idea of the eurovignette, while at the same time regretting these two serious failures.
politics is about finding the best possible solutions to the problems that arise... but how can we do that if we don't know the problems and the possible solutions? this is a fundamental issue, not only for environmental policy, but also for others... it is therefore essential that policy-makers have reliable and as comprehensive information as possible about the world today and the state of the environment... this is the conclusion reached by the european council in june 2006 when it asked the european union and its member states to extend the national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development. i welcome this initiative and the european commission's proposal, because it will make it possible to learn more about atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes, etc.
in writing. there is a need to agree on the development of model statistics on the environmental consequences of member states' and eu policies and on the accounting of taxes supporting certain environmental policies. it's obvious. it is unfortunate, however, that statistics and taxes are included indiscriminately in an 'environmental accounting'. the aim of such assimilation is the implementation of the climate package and its pollution rights fund. the delegation of powers to the commission is also in line with this. i vote for it, though. i want to validate the idea of statistical tools being necessary even though i reject the policies that they are supposed to serve.
president of the commission. − i want to confirm that all the ideas put forward by commissioner rehn have my full support and endorsement, so i will not repeat what he said. regarding the esm, we are now in the process of establishing it. as you know, i hope the governments will very soon agree on that and so i hope that there will be a political decision in the european council confirming the decisions regarding the european stability mechanism and, of course, you know what our position is. regarding eurobonds, this is not a new idea. the commission has for many years – including one of my predecessors – put forward the idea of eurobonds. the reality is that so far member states have not accepted the idea; namely when we had the crisis with greece, the commission proposed some idea of mutualisation of the debt, which was rejected by most of the member states in the euro area. i think that there is now some progress in terms of accepting the idea of considering several options, and the commission will of course present several options. we have always thought that the idea of eurobonds was an attractive one provided the member states could support it, but we are not yet there, to be honest. we are not yet there and i think what we have to do now is focus on the esm.
president of the commission. − mr verhofstadt, the commission acts as a collegiate body. i think you find it easier to agree with what olli rehn says than with what i say, but in fact we are saying exactly the same thing. in the annual growth survey the commission was defending and proposing collectively more intervention of this kind in the markets; that was unfortunately not agreed to by the member states. so what i can confirm is that we are working along that line; we are trying to have increased flexibility for intervention in the markets but, honestly, i think we should now focus on the esm and consider, of course, options for the future of the eurobonds if the member states are ready to take that additional step.
president of the commission. − mr zahradil, first of all, unfortunately the economic problems that we have in europe are not only in the euro area. some member states outside the euro area are also involved in balance of payment support programmes through the commission and the imf. regarding the euro area, as you say, there are discussions ongoing between the member states, the council, the commission and the european central bank on achieving the best possible comprehensive response. as you know, there is not always expert agreement on the best way to obtain that response. this is still ongoing work. it is fair to recognise that these issues are extremely difficult and complex. the magnitude of the challenge is unprecedented and it requires some work of convergence. that is why the commission has been extremely prudent in the way it communicates on that matter because some of these issues are market sensitive. one thing is clear: as we have said, restructuring is not an alternative to the painful fiscal consolidation efforts that all the member states have to make if they want to correct their imbalances in terms of deficit and debt.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr barroso, it is true that the european union's position is not always clear, but you have just answered this point. i would like to say three things. first, on the restructuring, let's stop. we all know that at some point there will be a debt restructuring, for example in greece, for the simple reason that the greek government must be given the opportunity to regain confidence and that greek society must be restructured. because today in greece, no one trusts anyone, or the government. and until the government can give its people a future perspective, other than austerity, it will not be able to revive the economy. the commission and the parties concerned should therefore focus on the need to restore the confidence of the greek people, which is the prerequisite for the adoption of any measures. but today austerity does not give this society time to think. that's the reason for this refusal, which can be very dangerous. one last question, the tax evasion. could europe not also help greece in this area? there are greek accounts in banks in austria, luxembourg, cyprus and switzerland. why not freeze these accounts or at least question the banking secrecy so that the greek government knows where the tax evasion is coming from. we ask it to put an end to tax evasion and at the same time we do not help it and it is our banks, european banks, that are actually hiding tax evasion.
president of the commission. − mr saryusz-wolski, my friend, let me tell you very frankly that i understand the concerns that you have with the eastern neighbourhood, but i think that the most important issue is not to place east and south in competition with one another: we need both. what is important now is to help those who want us to help them, and to do that in an effective way. in fact the approach we have put forward in the revision of the neighbourhood policy is clear. we are not allocating resources on an east-south cleavage but based on conditionality according to each partner’s progress towards reform, or, if you like, more for more. those who do more, those who show that they deserve more, will receive more. so we do not have a previously prepared envelope – this is for country a or for country b – the country has to show that it deserves to be supported. i think this is the right approach, and in that case we will, of course, fulfil our commitments both to our eastern european partnership – that is extremely important – but also to our neighbours in the mediterranean.
mr president, my question is actually related to the previous question and your answer. you have just spoken of the aid you gave, particularly to the emerging arab democracies, at the g8 in deauville: $40 billion, mostly in the form of loans from the imf, the ebrd and the eib, and about €15 billion from the european union and the member states. you just said something about conditionality. my question is about that. this aid is indeed conditional on a number of criteria: free and fair elections, freedom of association, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the fight against corruption, the independence of the judiciary, reform of the army and the police - criteria which you are all very familiar with. i wonder who would really appreciate these criteria being respected, particularly in relation to all these emerging arab democracies? will parliament be fully involved in assessing whether the conditionality is being respected or will it be a matter of discretion for the council?
president of the commission. − regarding the middle east peace process, i do not remember a single international meeting in the last 30 years where this issue was not mentioned. we have restated our urgent call for resuming the peace process and we have urged both parties to re-engage in substantive talks to bring the middle east peace process to an effective conclusion. we all commended the new us vision on reaching a framework agreement as groundbreaking and forward-looking. however, there were different reactions to the details of this new vision. to be honest with you, there are different approaches among the g8 partners to the hamas-plo cooperation and to the issue of the 1967 borders. there were also some concerns around the table about the risks entailed in a potential palestinian endeavour to unilaterally seek recognition at a united nations general assembly. i can tell you that we are also discussing this with the member states and that i hope that we in europe will have a common position on the matter.
mr president, mr barroso, the g8 countries have decided to allocate 40 billion dollars to tunisia and egypt, as has already been said. however, the european union must advocate greater transparency, visibility and traceability, in short better governance of such aid. four essential points should be emphasized: first, to guarantee the democratic character and absolute transparency of development cooperation. secondly, to ensure that human rights are respected, but also to increase the role and capacity of civil society organisations and to organise a reform of the aid governance system with greater involvement of the european parliament. mr barroso, the eu must ensure that the targeted populations receive this aid. what concrete measures does the european union envisage in this regard?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can of course only welcome the peaceful and credible conduct of the january referendum on self-determination in south sudan. south sudan will proclaim - it has already been said - its independence on 9 july. the challenges are immense both in the internal organisation of this new state and in its relations with sudan, at their common borders and in the oil-rich abyei region. sudan and south sudan are facing enormous humanitarian needs. the main challenges are security, access to populations in distress and compliance with humanitarian principles. the crisis is far from over. it is imperative that the international community maintain its presence and a very important humanitarian capacity. we must remain vigilant to the development of the situation, which is already dramatic but could worsen and pose a threat to the stability of the region. it is also essential that development aid to south sudan be coordinated and complementary to humanitarian aid. the link between emergency and development is becoming more important in this context where state structures are very weak and where the humanitarian crisis will continue. development aid must thus support state structures and increase access to basic services, currently provided by ngos and international organisations. finally, events in south sudan and the abyei region should not make us forget the situation in darfur, which is considered the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. the lives of millions of people still depend on foreign aid. and let me - since i have a few seconds left - applaud mr piebalgs' work, which i think is remarkable.
madam president, a few hours ago the sudanese government informed the un that the conditions for the return of thousands of residents who had fled the disputed abyei region on the border between north and south sudan were about to be created. we know that while departures are always very rapid, the return of displaced persons takes time and is all too often the source of considerable humanitarian and social disruption. that is why i propose that the european union set up a monitoring mission as soon as possible, on the model of what we have done in the balkans. this mission could of course be carried out with the help of the african union and, why not, of certain third countries. finally, a word on the rumors circulating about a possible "ethnic cleansing" in the region. if the facts are confirmed, the international community, urged on by the european union, will obviously have to act quickly, because the tragedy of the former yugoslavia must not happen again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, carlos coelho, who has done the work of a goldsmith on this report, and god knows it was very complicated. bulgaria and romania have made considerable efforts to strengthen border controls and have succeeded. the latest assessments are very clear, whether it is police and judicial cooperation, data protection, visa policy or air, sea or land border control. all the technical criteria are met. we can only confirm this fact. bulgaria and romania are now in a position to implement the schengen acquis in technical and staff terms. in addition, although there are no obstacles today to this enlargement of the schengen area, we note that a number of recommendations have been addressed to these two countries. i hope that these recommendations will be followed up strictly, particularly with regard to the borders between bulgaria, greece and turkey, because, as you know, mutual trust between the schengen states is based on the full respect by these states of their mutual obligations. if one party fails to meet its obligations, it creates air calls, the whole system fails. i very much hope that an agreement will be reached in the council to welcome these two countries into the privileged circle of the schengen states. and we all in this house are measuring the impact of this type of decision on the citizens concerned. i would like to congratulate mr coelho on his report.
i'm the author's substitute. mr president, commissioner, on behalf of mr daerden, may i thank you for your reply. we will of course support all initiatives which will speed up procedures when they help workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation or the crisis. we would simply like to draw your attention to two problems. the first is that the support of workers must remain the priority. this means that, through the revision of the procedures, we will oppose the idea of the globalisation adjustment fund becoming one tool among others, for example of cohesion policy, because then all community money, outside of foreign policy or research and development, will become cohesion policy. we have specific objectives to pursue and we need these tools. the globalisation adjustment fund is one of them. we also ask you to coordinate the management of the fund, in collaboration with your fellow commissioners, with other policies which have an impact in this area, whether in the field of competition or in the field of industrial policy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro crisis and the public debt crisis call for european solutions, not national ones. this is the message that this parliament, together with josé manuel barroso, on behalf of the european commission, has been sending to the member states for months. the european solution means european funding. my group wishes to adapt this funding to the new realities of europe, both in its objectives and in its modalities. my question to the council is: is the europe of the 2020s the same as that of the 1960s? are the public finances of our member states, our growth prospects and europe's place in the world comparable? no, i'm not going. of course, today's europe is not the same as that of the founding fathers. it has changed and it would be irresponsible not to reflect these changes in the way the union is financed, that is, in the way europe is conceived. (the speaker pauses, wishing to continue his talk at a later time.)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, my group wants european funding to be adapted to the new realities, trends and objectives of europe. the state of public finances in our member states, our growth prospects, europe's place in the world, are they comparable to what the founding fathers of europe had imagined? i'm sure you didn't. there's evolution and change. it would be irresponsible not to reflect these changes in the way europe is financed. this is the highly political debate which the special committee of our parliament, in conjunction with the committee on budgets, has been conducting for more than a year on the multiannual financial framework. i congratulate this committee and ask that the european spirit which has been manifested in it prevail throughout the establishment of this financial framework, to advance the europe of our fellow citizens. this is the debate in which the epp group asks the member states to participate fully, and when i say fully, i mean without limiting myself to stating that the ultimate goal is to freeze european spending by 2020 or without throwing away the question of europe's own resources. if we want our own resources, it is to reduce national budgets. it is in this spirit that we will propose to the heads of state and government own resources to help their budgets which are in difficulty. i would remind you that the european budget has always been in balance, unlike that of our states, most of which are heavily indebted. i would also point out that more than 90% of this budget is spent on projects which benefit the member states themselves. finally, i would remind the member states that the unspent funds will be returned to them at the end of the year. and we're told we're not good managers? we need, i think, a lot more communication. so please, let us stop acting as if the european budget were a burden on households. let us be honest: a euro spent at european level is much more profitable than one spent at national level. a euro at the national level has already lost 20 or 30 percent of its value to pay the interest on the national debt. we must tell the truth to the europeans. the truth is that without european funding for lifelong learning, the brain drain will accelerate to the us and china. the truth is that without european funding for research and innovation, our countries will be less competitive in the world and we will lose the game of growth and employment. the truth is that without european funding for cohesion policy, the gap between rich and poor regions will widen. the truth is that without european funding, food security policy, energy policy and the policy to combat climate change will not live up to our hopes and ambitions. of course, not everything is about money, but how the european union decides whether or not to invest and implement political priorities in the run-up to the 2020s will be decisive for europe's ability to influence or not influence the world. that is why the european parliament - and i know that the groups that have spoken before me agree with me for once - asks the council to give careful consideration to its position on the financial perspective. if the council is serious about getting back to growth and employment, it must use the european budget, the community's resources, as a powerful lever for action. if the council is really keen, as are parliament and the commission, to give europe a chance in globalisation, it must understand that spending well is even more useful than spending little, and that spending together on joint projects is more sensible than spreading its resources on projects with no future. ladies and gentlemen, this is an ambitious project for europe, as the epp members have called for this morning. this is the ambition, this is the hope of our fellow citizens. at a time when young people are expressing their disquiet in the streets of athens and madrid, when 500 million europeans are wondering about their future, it is really time to ask the real questions and give answers to the challenges that lie ahead of us.
mr president, the report by mr salvador garriga polledo - whom i thank and congratulate for his work - is an ambitious and forward-looking synthesis. the report calls for increased resources to enable the european union to better achieve its objectives as set out in the lisbon treaty. it raises forcefully the question of own resources and therefore, in fact, the question of the freedom of our institution in its fundamental political act, the vote on its budget. it proposes to extend and extend the common policies, in particular the cohesion policy, which has made a strong contribution in the past and may continue in the future to make the european union a model of understanding and cooperation between peoples. with the future multiannual financial framework, if the european parliament is consulted, cohesion policy can enter a new phase through the creation of intermediate regions. we are therefore proposing a new architecture for this fund which strengthens equal opportunities for all european territories, whatever their economic past, whatever their handicap in relation to the more developed areas, whatever their vulnerability in the face of the economic crisis we are experiencing today or that which we may experience tomorrow. the cohesion between the various territories of the european union is a key strategic objective on which the very future of europe depends. the proposals made are in the right direction and, if they are taken up, they are a valid preparation for the future. mr president, the vote on this report by mr garriga will be a simple choice, a choice for a europe that moves forward, a vote by those who, regardless of their political affiliation, believe in the future of europe.
mr president, the debate on the financial perspectives of the european union is in fact about the european project, its content and its ambition. the great merit of this report is that it aims to mobilise the union's budgetary resources in line with and in service of the europe 2020 strategy and, therefore, stands in contrast to most member states, which have a narrow view of it. while member states reduce europe to the amount of their contribution, which they want to see reduced, and to its financial returns, which they want to see increased, this report argues for strong integrated community policies, both in terms of historical policies and the new competences conferred by the lisbon treaty. so yes, this own-initiative report of parliament must form the basis of the future debate, even if, in my view, it fails to reach an excessive consensus and to be cautious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the crucial question, however, and probably the stumbling block, will be to set the course in line with the policies outlined in this report. we know the harm of austerity policies, their impact on employment, the despair of a growing number of our citizens and we have a responsibility to finance counter-cyclical policies, particularly through a strong cohesion policy, mr pieper, which supports public investment and jobs in the territories. i would like to stress the importance of creating a category of intermediate regions for a distribution of the structural funds as closely as possible to the economic and social realities of the territories. i would conclude by saying that we must achieve taxation of speculation, which is likely to encourage greater citizenship for a better-funded european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that money is the lifeblood of war. it must be remembered that money is also the nerve of a peace project such as the european project. if europe is to implement the policies enshrined in the treaties, including the most recent ones - those of the lisbon treaty - it is essential that it has the financial means to match its ambitions. i am therefore in favour of the collection of own resources and the creation of a financial transaction tax. this necessary increase in the european budget will have to be accompanied by substantial savings through the optimisation of expenditure. let us, for example, have a genuine common foreign and defence policy, to ensure greater european influence throughout the world, but also to make the best possible use of public money. the garriga polledo report is a fundamental text, almost a groundbreaking text, because it gives the european union very strong political and budgetary prospects. in addition, two key policies of this union have their full place in it. the cap, which is a policy crucial to the food security and independence of our continent; the budget will have to be renewed. cohesion policy, i.e. the financial instrument for solidarity between european regions and their economic development; the commission's proposal is to strengthen the ambition of the european union by creating an intermediate category of regions so that regions at the same level of development benefit from the same level of development.
in writing. the purpose of my colleague garriga polledo's report is to define the european parliament's political priorities for the post-2013 mff, both at legislative and budgetary level. two aspects in particular caught my attention. first, a political priority is cohesion for growth and employment. i strongly support the creation of an intermediate category for regions with a gdp per capita of between 75% and 90% of the union's gdp. the challenge is to achieve greater equity between regions. this proposal reflects the principle of territorial cohesion enshrined in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. secondly, as regards the financial perspective, i am in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax with a view to creating budgetary resources specific to the european union.
in writing. the vote on my colleague salvador garriga's report will be an important milestone for our mandate: the european parliament sets out in a clear, pragmatic and realistic way its budgetary ambitions for europe after 2013. i would like to stress first of all the need to defend the cohesion policy, which is so important for the development of our territories. i am convinced of the need to maintain its budget and to introduce fair aid for all middle-income regions in order to make visible and fair the future investments that the eu is allowing in our regions. the reasonable increase in the budget by 5% is not a sign of european weakness, as the eurosceptics would have us believe, but of the courage to say that if we do not give ourselves the means to build together, we will sink into isolation and powerlessness. so, in order to be able to finance the actions linked to the new powers that the treaty of lisbon has given the eu, i would like to support the request that we consider new own resources and revenue at community level to relieve national budgets and avoid the economically false and politically unhealthy notion of 'just return'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. this is the second assessment of the application of the schengen provisions by romania and bulgaria, following the one carried out in 2010. it should be recalled that romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis (data protection, schengen information system, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visas) when they joined the european union in 2007, but that it is now up to all member states to decide on their effective entry into the borderless area. the european parliament is consulted.
in writing. the schengen area, and especially the free movement of persons, is one of the community acquis that speaks most to our citizens. mr barroso said that 'freedom of movement is to europe what foundations are to a building'. free movement is one of the union's great achievements. i welcome the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area following the vote in parliament. a great deal of effort has been put into ensuring border security, with their 4th generation surveillance system being more exemplary than our 2nd generation. however, obstacles to the free movement of workers persist: first, legal and administrative obstacles affecting all aspects of citizens' lives; social dumping is next, because while article 45 of the tfeu ensures equal treatment for workers, the work of the committee on petitions nevertheless shows that the opposite is still the case; finally, social protection differs from one country to another, which does not encourage mobility. i therefore propose that a minimum social protection threshold be set in the union. while social protection is a matter for the member states, this lack of harmonisation clearly harms the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the coelho report on the application of all the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. the efforts made by these two member states of the european union are to be welcomed. these states have fulfilled the conditions necessary for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis. the report notes, however, that the region is one of the most sensitive to illegal immigration at the eu's external borders. transitional measures will have to be implemented by bulgaria at the time of entry into the schengen area. the cooperation of these two states must be total in order not to undermine a system based on mutual trust between the member states of this area. i agree with the rapporteur's position.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. member states such as france, germany and the netherlands want to change the rules of the game. it is not possible to add other criteria such as the evaluation of anti-corruption and anti-crime policies, which are important but whose suspicious assessment is strictly political and would introduce a two-speed mechanism between the different member states.
in writing. in the light of the results of the evaluations and follow-up visits carried out by the expert teams, it was found that bulgaria and romania were ready to integrate into the schengen area. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr carlos coelho.
in writing. i have nothing against our friends, colleagues or neighbours, bulgarians and romanians. i have many complaints about the schengen system. this agreement, which was signed in secret and ratified in august of the 1980s, has proved to be a total disaster. the dismantling of internal borders does not guarantee freedom of movement for european citizens, but creates unmanageable insecurity, demographic and migration situations within the eu, in the countries of destination and in the countries of departure. it is also a great incentive for illegal immigration, which is assured, whatever its point of entry into europe, that it can go and settle wherever it wants, and especially in france. the problems of the roma and lampedusa, which have been mentioned many times here, are only a few examples of this situation. i don't want schengen for my country. so i don't wish that for the others either. states must retain full control of all their borders and, where appropriate, cooperate with each other to strengthen their 'external' borders.
in writing. i fully supported the adoption of this report which gives its consent to the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. these two states have made considerable efforts to strengthen border controls and have succeeded in doing so; this is evidenced by the expert visits and evaluations carried out under the supervision of the council working party on schengen evaluation, which have reached positive conclusions. these two countries meet and fulfil all the technical criteria set by the european union. i am therefore fully in favour of their full participation in the schengen area. states cannot add new criteria (such as the evaluation of anti-corruption and anti-crime policies) and change the rules along the way. this week we are celebrating the 26th anniversary of the schengen agreements: it is one of the most beautiful constructions of the european union, which must be defended, just like our right to free movement, one of the most fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. i support the green light for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. a thorough and objective analysis of the fulfilment by these two countries of the criteria laid down in the schengen acquis has been carried out and it has been concluded that they fully fulfil these conditions. it is therefore not conceivable to add other criteria such as the evaluation of anti-corruption and anti-crime policies, which are important but whose suspicious assessment is strictly political, and would introduce a two-speed mechanism between the different member states. this vision of a europe of 'two weights and measures' depending on whether it is a question of old or new member states is simply unacceptable.
in writing. bulgaria and romania have made all the efforts that fortress europe demanded of them to ensure that their citizens can move freely within the schengen area. this report calls for more. he called for a common approach with greece to be taken against migrants from arab countries. such a request is unacceptable. i abstain in order not to oppose free movement within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr carlos coelho proposing the entry of bulgaria and romania into the 'schengen area'. this is one of the major achievements of the european construction. the admission of a new state is subject to strict compliance with the criteria of the schengen agreements. however, in the case of bulgaria and romania, the european parliament's civil liberties committee - as well as the european commission - have concluded after investigation that these two countries fully meet the conditions. as a result, there is no longer any obstacle to their integration into this area of free movement. i think it would be unacceptable if some states, on the basis of false pretexts and motivated by internal political considerations, continued to oppose it. the community acquis cannot be regarded as a tailor-made system in which the member states could adapt or suspend provisions as circumstances require. i therefore solemnly call on the council to endorse the progress made by bulgaria and romania and to admit them to the schengen area.
in writing. parliament adopted today the report by my colleague carlos coelho on the 'application of all the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania'. this report follows the evaluations carried out under the supervision of the council working party on schengen evaluation (sch eval). the conclusions of these evaluations do not preclude romania and bulgaria from joining the schengen area. the opening of borders is one of the european union's greatest achievements. i therefore welcome the positive vote of parliament which encourages the accession of these two new states to the schengen area. the council must now show realism and solidarity by adopting a unanimous position on the question of the
in writing. i supported the alexander graf lambsdorff report because i believe that we need to strengthen the cohesion of member states' positions, as well as our capacity to negotiate with other regional groups. the aim is to improve the efficiency and transparency of the united nations and the management of its financial resources. i am convinced that a reform of the functioning and composition of the un security council is necessary in the medium term.
in writing. as the 66th ordinary session of the united nations general assembly approached, the european parliament addressed its usual recommendations to the council, representing the member states, which are the only full members of the organisation. but this year the union will be able to use its new super-observer status, which gives it special rights to speak at the sessions. i voted in favour of this resolution because it gives full weight to the union's new ambitions at international level. the lisbon treaty gives it new prerogatives, confirms the development of its international capacity and introduces new tools. this act requires the union to put this new ambition at the service of effective multilateralism, in which its values must be fully effective. it also calls for a strengthening of global governance, at a time when global challenges require global solutions. finally, it focuses on the core issues that the union has traditionally been called upon to help advance: development, human rights and climate change.
in writing. as rapporteur for the committee on development's opinion on this report, i welcome its adoption today by the european parliament as a whole. it is essential to reaffirm the need to harmonize the efforts of the various united nations bodies in order to promote more efficiently and effectively development action. the development assistance implemented by the united nations must focus in particular on the achievement of the millennium development goals, with particular attention to the least developed countries.
in writing. my colleague jean-pierre audy's report on the european union's seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration (fp7) denounces a low level of participation by smes and industry in general, a low number of female researchers and an under-representation of some member states. i believe that there is a need for effective coordination of research between the eu and national and regional authorities. that is why i voted in favour of this excellent report.
in writing. the eu's 7th framework programme is a crucial programme to improve european added value in r & d and innovation as europe lags behind the us and loses its lead over emerging economies in these areas. this report therefore underlines the relevance of an unknown programme, while calling for changes: - to change the administrative and financial rules which are too burdensome and the low success rate which make this programme still too dissuasive for smes, while they play an important role in the transformation of research results into products and services; - to ensure better cooperation and coordination between the various actors while research funding remains fragmented between national and european sources. these are some of the ways in which we could finally achieve the objective of financing research and development at 3% of gdp by 2020, which is far from being achieved, especially for france, which still spends only 2% of its gdp on this.
in writing. this report highlighted the factors that are essential to meet the requirements of the future of research in europe, particularly in the context of the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy. it has now become essential to reduce excessive administrative burdens, in particular to encourage greater participation of smes in the 7th framework programme. it is also imperative that eu programmes continually bring together the benefits of research and innovation for the benefit of education and job creation.
in writing. the 7th framework programme for research and development for the period 2007-2013 is the subject of a mid-term evaluation by the european parliament. this is an opportunity to remind the european commission of the importance of making the right investment choices in research and innovation for the future of europe. for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013, eur 28.5 billion remains to be programmed. this amount should be allocated as a priority to projects promoted by smes and industry in general, in particular in the fields of energy supply, sustainable development and the fight against climate change. the best distribution of research infrastructures throughout the european union will have to be ensured, while respecting the principle of excellence which makes it possible to welcome the best researchers in the world to europe.
in writing. in 2010, the european union had not met the lisbon strategy target of devoting 3% of its gdp to research and development. this objective has been included in the europe 2020 strategy, but the eu must now equip itself to meet this objective in order to remain an internationally competitive economy. i therefore welcome the adoption of the audy report on the mid-term review of the 7th framework programme, taking into account the effects of the economic crisis of recent years, which have particularly affected the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in r & d. in order to avoid administrative burdens and to facilitate access to european funding for businesses, simplification and greater transparency of procedures are essential.
in writing. research and development play a major role in modernising our economies and enhancing our competitiveness. with a budget of €54 billion for the period 2007-13, the 7th framework programme is the largest research support programme in the world. the adoption of this report by a large majority shows the strong interest of parliament in the success of this programme and the next ones. efforts still need to be made to ensure sound management of public money and to avoid the dispersion of funds into projects that are inefficient or do not meet our needs. the future of european research depends on simplifying the implementation of programmes, facilitating access to finance, involving smes, but above all adapting our priorities to the major societal challenges (demographic ageing, climate change, etc.). i am convinced that the european union has a leading role to play in the development of major research programmes and that it can, by consolidating the european research area, bring real added value. that is why i have decided to give my full support to this report.
in writing. every year since 2007, the european union has spent over €6 billion to fund research and development on the continent. this is one of the major challenges facing europeans in the coming decades. europeans, who are lagging behind the united states and are being caught up very quickly by emerging countries, must quickly put innovation back at the forefront of their social model. the report by my colleague jean-pierre audy draws on the lessons of the first part of the framework programme for research. with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, it recommends that the remaining programming should address the union's most urgent challenges in the sectors identified in the seventh framework programme's 'cooperation' chapter: health, agri-food and biotechnology, information and communication technologies, nanosciences and nanotechnologies, energy, the set plan and the use of biogas, environment, sustainable transport, economic and social sciences, humanities, space and security. i voted for this report because it not only takes stock of the situation but also sets ambitious objectives for the union, which are in line with the expectations of the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr audy's report on the mid-term review of fp7. the european parliament reiterates its commitment to this programme, which is of major importance for the development of european research and the improvement of the competitiveness of our enterprises. it advocates the sustainability of its budget, which is essential if it is to achieve its objectives. the report then makes concrete proposals to correct the programme's malfunctions. it rightly stresses the need to simplify its financing procedures and to optimise existing tools in order to facilitate access for smes. the report also stresses the need for the european commission to ensure that the promotion of innovation does not come at the expense of progress in basic research.
in writing. by voting in favour of this resolution on the current trade negotiations between the european union and canada, i wish to reaffirm the importance of international trade (including with canada) for the development of our economies. as stated in that resolution, while europe must continue to give priority to the international trading system, i.e. the doha round negotiations, the current negotiations with canada can usefully complement this international approach with an equally necessary bilateral approach. so by discussing and negotiating, we are able to find solutions to the questions relating to our trade and to the respect of certain principles, for example those relating to the environment. however, as vice-chair of the public services working party, i am concerned about the approach taken to this sector. the definition of a negative list (excluding certain public services from the liberalisation process) rather than a positive list (exempting public services from liberalisation, except those mentioned in the list) risks weakening public services. the resolution therefore urges the european commission to abandon this approach.
in writing. while a trade agreement is being negotiated between the european union and canada, the european parliament, through the resolution we have just adopted, expresses its concern at the attitude of the european commission towards public services. the european commission, which is negotiating the agreement, seems to want all services to be included a priori. by negotiating a negative list of services which would not be included in free trade agreements, the commission, if this is confirmed, reverses the logic which has prevailed until now. public services are not services like any other: because they bring social and territorial cohesion and provide essential support to vulnerable populations, they have characteristics of the general interest they pursue. it is therefore essential to continue to take a protective approach to these services, in particular by protecting them from international competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-canada trade relations aimed at the conclusion of a comprehensive trade agreement. canada is a privileged partner of the european union, as canadian investment in europe has almost doubled over 10 years, reaching €119.5 million in 2009. it is therefore necessary to set an advanced legal framework to ensure positive effects on growth. i would like to stress the issue of access to the markets for agricultural products. as the rules of origin differ between canada and the eu, the commission must ensure that the interests and priorities of european agriculture are properly taken into account. in particular, efforts must be made to find a satisfactory solution to the problem of rules of origin so that canadian products do not lead to the products of other nafta members being traced.
in writing. in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the trade agreement between the european union and canada, the commission must commit itself to respecting the requirements of the european parliament. in a free trade agreement, two things are essential: firstly, to guarantee reciprocity in respect of social and environmental legislation, and secondly, to adopt a coherent and protective approach to services of general interest. the european environmental and health standards must not be lowered just to satisfy our partner. the european commission must consider the consequences of its choice to include all services automatically and by default. although this method allows certain public services to be excluded on a case-by-case basis and at the request of each member state, by drawing up a 'negative' list, it nevertheless presents the risk of potential forgetting. parliament does not want this new negotiating model to be able to be used as a case law. until now, the commission has negotiated free trade agreements by means of a 'positive' list of the services covered by the agreement. this method, which is commonly used in international trade, is more likely to preserve certain sensitive sectors for the eu and should therefore be the only one used by the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution but against amendment no 10 supporting the eu's ban on the import of seal products. this is not scientifically or legally based. the conclusions of the scientific opinion delivered by the european food safety authority (efsa) at the end of 2007 are based on data on the killing of animals in slaughterhouses and are not reliable for the seal hunt. the legal basis is also questionable, as is shown by the legal opinion of the european parliament of 1 april 2009: 'it seems almost impossible to justify the ban on the basis of animal welfare alone, since the treaty contains no legal basis on animal welfare'. the protection of the species is not in question, but its population has tripled in greenland in 25 years. finally, an embargo which the commission ensures does not have an impact on traditional inuit hunting is utopian. in this context, canada's request to the wto for the establishment of a special dispute settlement group on the european embargo is justified.
in writing. the european commission will conclude negotiations with canada on an unprecedented free trade agreement. she's been negotiating since 2004. the european citizens were never consulted or even informed. the report welcomes this harmful agreement, the contents of which are only known through leaks. this is unacceptable! i am voting against and denouncing this agreement which places the peoples of europe in a subordinate position on the model of those of nafta.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague wolf klinz on credit rating agencies. credit rating agencies are useful in providing information on the quality of credit products, in providing access to global and domestic markets for borrowers and investors, and in helping to set prices. however, the crisis has demonstrated the dangers of the current system: lack of competition and lack of accountability and transparency of agencies in particular. this is an own-initiative report from parliament, which calls on the european commission to clearly identify the weaknesses of the current framework and to provide an impact study outlining the various alternatives to be considered to improve the system, including new legislation if necessary. i would urge the commission to respond to our request as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr wolf klinz. it contains interesting proposals for continuing the necessary supervision of credit rating agencies. the current situation in the euro area is a near daily reminder of the impact of the decisions made by these agencies and the dependence of the global financial regulatory system on them. i particularly welcome the request to the european commission to study the feasibility of setting up an independent european credit rating foundation. this is a concrete proposal to deal with the excessive reliance of the global financial regulatory system on a few private rating agencies.
in writing. one after another, the rating agencies are lowering or putting under negative surveillance the ratings of the european countries most affected by the crisis: portugal, ireland, greece, spain. without triggering the global financial crisis, the agencies have nevertheless contributed to it by acting in this way. they encourage speculation, jeopardizing the chances of success of the already very draconian recovery plans imposed on their populations. this is why it is urgent to create a european rating agency which would take the legal form of an independent foundation. the conflicts of interest inherent in rating agencies, which are currently able to issue ratings while acting as consultancies, must also be addressed. this should be in line with the commission's assessment of the need to increase disclosure for all products in the area of financial instruments.
in writing. almost the entire market for financial ratings, which are sometimes made mandatory for regulatory purposes, is held by three major us agencies. opening up this sector to competition, or creating a public agency at european level, will not change the perversity of the system. because today, it's always crazy: you don't know who markets or agencies are controlling the reactions of the other. if a country's bad rating triggers a panic over sovereign debt, or if cynical speculation drives a bad rating; whether a good rating influences the ownership of certain assets or whether, because they are good and you want to own them, the assets are rated well. closer monitoring of the activities of the agencies is a minimal service and of course insufficient. despite repeated criticism in europe and the united states, the reputation of the agencies has not really suffered. no doubt, holding them legally and even financially responsible for the consequences of their errors and carelessness could have an impact. but again, unless you change the system fundamentally instead of trying to plug the holes in it to ensure its survival, nothing will be solved.
in writing. this hypocritical text claims that the main difficulty with rating agencies is the barriers to competition. his solution to the "over-reliance" of banks on these workshops is that banks themselves assess the risks. the banks that are responsible for measuring sobriety! if they are not able to do so, they are asked to apply the least favourable rating to better protect themselves! the problem is not to protect the interests of the banks but to protect the general interest. once again, the people are the least of the eu's concerns.
in writing. i supported the report by our colleague mr richard falbr because i believe that the union must promote higher labour and social standards in third countries in order to preserve its credibility in international trade and to build strong relations with major trading partners. the rapporteur advocates a balanced relationship with ngos and international organisations to facilitate ratification of the conventions. in order to negotiate with the union, third countries must respect internationally established labour standards.
in writing. having a uniform form of social clause that could be inserted into all bilateral trade agreements is what the report we have just adopted on the external dimension of social policy and the promotion of social standards proposes. what a step in the right direction! the report notes that free trade agreements still rarely mention social standards, and suggests a number of ways, including the social clause, but also respect for ilo conventions - which have already been ratified by all the member states! - and the strengthening of cooperation between third countries and member states. the development of the concept of corporate social responsibility is the other interesting aspect of the report. for while it is a useful concept for the time being, it is still based on voluntary action and can therefore be improved upon! in addition to extending the concept to several areas and integrating csr into our trade policies, why not make it a binding one day? beyond the political signal, this would make it possible to make real progress in achieving our social policy objectives.
in writing. the external dimension of social policy aims to promote labour and social standards in third countries and to combat social dumping, sometimes as a result of globalisation or international trade. the union can no longer accept without action the social, health and environmental dumping which is responsible for too many relocations from our european territory. the commission should no longer regard the low labour costs or the poor working conditions as 'natural competitive advantages'. i would urge the commission to change its approach on this point.
in writing. i voted in favour of the falbr report because i believe that, in the light of the recent weakening of the role of the international labour organisation, it is necessary to stress the importance of respect for the social rights of workers throughout the world. the european union must play a leading role in the world in order to impose on other countries the observance of international labour law standards and thus limit the unbridled use of social dumping. it is important that all european actors are involved in the implementation of this policy, whether governments in the context of the conclusion of international agreements or european companies developing their activities in third countries.
in writing. globalisation is really about putting workers from all countries in unfair competition. whether through relocations, through so-called labour immigration, or finally through the famous mode 4 of the general agreement on trade in services. the problem is that the european union, while making fine speeches on the subject, never puts them into practice. when did the practical and concrete consequences of the finding of intolerable exploitation situations come to light? when have such situations prevented the signing of trade agreements with any country? i never will. because if you pretend to be concerned about the situation of foreign workers, european workers are eliminated from your thinking. as the rapporteur points out - and i agree with him - the world bodies say that 'labour standards cannot be used for protectionist commercial purposes'. but what principles, what values, what considerations could be opposed to the all-powerful market? you're talking about corporate social responsibility, which, after all, is just playing by the rules you make. when will the very heavy social responsibility of eu policy-makers be discussed here?
in writing. i welcome the fact that the opinion of the committee on development, for which i was rapporteur, is included in this report. the 100th international labour conference is currently taking place and we all know that the current rules are ineffective. in a context of global crisis, it is essential that the eu sends a strong message calling for a new era of social justice. the proposals contained in mr falbr's report would make real progress in this direction. we cannot but deplore the double standard in the application of social rights. implementation mechanisms (with incentives and penalties) are necessary for social standards to be effectively enforced. a social clause must be incorporated into all eu trade agreements and be legally binding. i would like to say that i am not happy that the report (paragraph 31) insists that there should be no european directive imposing corporate social responsibility. i stress the need to move towards greater social justice and to ensure that the rights of workers are respected throughout the world and particularly in our relations with developing countries.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis which is currently raging in europe and the rest of the world is being combined with a serious social crisis. in this difficult context, the european union and its businesses have a great social responsibility in their relations with third countries. i therefore wanted to stress in my vote the need for the european union to guarantee respect for social standards and workers' rights in the agreements it concludes with these countries. the european union, by virtue of its values, must ensure the development and dissemination of the standards governing its labour law throughout the world. europe must be a model. that is why i also voted in favour of provisions which emphasize corporate social responsibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the external dimension of the european union's social policy. the european union is a magnet and a sought-after partner throughout the world, and this is due in large part to the unique way in which it combines economic dynamism and social model. it must be promoted by the community in its relations with other countries and must be the subject of coherent action between the two strands, internal and external. this text stresses the need to promote corporate social responsibility in particular. it requires companies to integrate social and environmental concerns into their business. the resolution stresses that such promotion should not be mandatory but should be the result of interaction between stakeholders on a voluntary basis. it also aims to integrate workers' rights, which the world labour organisation is responsible for defending, into international negotiations and to promote global economic governance that takes these parameters into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls the leading role that the european union wants and must play vis-à-vis third countries, in particular its trading partners. the failure to respect basic international social standards is a form of social and environmental dumping to the detriment of european businesses and workers. this is one of the points i wanted to stress in the opinion of the committee on international trade on this matter, for which i was rapporteur. but the eu alone cannot be fully effective: it must cooperate more closely with the relevant international organisations (ilo, wto, oecd), in particular to combat the phenomenon of free zones, which derogate from all social legislation. furthermore, while corporate social responsibility is now well developed in europe, european companies, their subsidiaries and subcontractors play a fundamental role in promoting and disseminating social and labour standards worldwide because of their weight in international trade. the commission should encourage them in this direction, in particular by seeking out and promoting best practice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nadja hirsch report, which aims to make comparisons between and within education systems. i believe that education should be better adapted to the needs of the labour market and encourage creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. the report also aims to facilitate the mobility of teachers and students and to simplify the procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, which is essential.
in writing. with youth unemployment currently at 21% in the european union and close to 25% in my country, it has become a major challenge for europe as unemployed young europeans are threatened with social exclusion and poverty. the eu has only marginal competence on these issues, but it seems that it can provide, if not solutions, to the interesting lines of thought: it seems obvious to me that training and education must be at the heart of the political priorities of today and tomorrow. the report calls on the member states to exchange good practice on their systems of alternance vocational education and training, which should be extended in many member states, particularly in france. these recommendations are a step in the right direction towards improving education and training in relation to the labour market and reducing unemployment and social exclusion, but they will remain insufficient if the member states and the commission do not make sufficient efforts, as youth unemployment is becoming the major political challenge in many member states, particularly in my country, france.
in writing. tackling youth unemployment is one of the most urgent challenges facing europe. therefore, member states should rapidly adopt targeted strategies that take into account national specificities and needs. learning methods must be more flexible and accessible throughout life. we must develop opportunities for all to gain experience abroad. the learning periods must also be better recognised. education and vocational training must be treated as a common long-term policy priority to enable european workers to adapt to the demands of a changing economy.
in writing. at a time when the unemployment rate among young people in europe is twice as high as that of the working population, the hirsch report's proposals are a useful contribution to the policy pursued by the governments of the 27 member states to combat unemployment. in the face of the challenges posed by an ageing population, but also by the globalisation of our economy, the development of lifelong learning programmes should be encouraged, in particular through the exchange of good practice between member states, and the initial training of young europeans should be improved by promoting partnerships between universities, research centres and businesses.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which puts vocational education and training at the centre of the concerns of the european union and its member states. at a time of budgetary austerity, a direct consequence of the world crisis which has hit the european labour market hard, it is necessary to reflect on our strategies for increasing employment, especially among young people, without losing sight of national specificities and needs. young people are the first victims of unemployment and are highly prone to drop out of school. it is therefore imperative to modernise teaching and training so that it can be more closely adapted to the needs of our enterprises. these efforts must also be made in the field of continuing training and the promotion of mobility. these objectives can only be achieved if all the stakeholders (european institutions, member states, local and regional actors) are involved.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy aims to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and to ensure that at least 40% of the younger generation has a qualification or diploma. these objectives pursue the european ambition, first set out in the lisbon strategy, to make the union the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. this is why the copenhagen process, which has been in place since 2002, is of particular importance as it sets the stage for better cooperation between member states' policies in the field of vocational education and training. i voted for this resolution because it sets ambitious targets for improving european education and training programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nadja hirsch report. to meet the economic challenges of the 21st century, and in particular the increasing competition from our trading partners, europe's vocational education and training systems need to be more efficient, more attractive and more responsive, in order to better prepare our citizens for the jobs they will have to fill. the commission has therefore to work to make these systems more suited to the needs of the world of work. i also believe that it is necessary to facilitate access to quality traineeships in europe and thus to maintain and strengthen existing programmes to increase the mobility of apprentices. to set up a genuine 'erasmus for apprentices', that was my commitment during the 2009 european election campaign: it is for young and old people, while entering the world of work and gaining professional experience, to have the opportunity to move around our european space and to rub shoulders with the economic realities of our internal market. finally, the system of recognition of professional qualifications in europe must be simplified and improved in order to revive the internal market and to give our fellow citizens the keys to greater professional mobility.
in writing. the eu and the member states must step up their efforts to promote youth employment and reduce youth unemployment, in particular by improving the matching of training systems with labour market needs. with 12 million low-skilled jobs expected to disappear in europe by 2020, and with the need to extend the working lives of workers to ensure that our social model is maintained in the face of the demographic challenge, it is also crucial, in parallel, to deepen efforts to improve the continuing training of workers in the course of their careers. in this respect, the idea of setting up incentive mechanisms for employers to encourage their employees to participate in training programmes, which my colleague nadja hirsch has proposed in this report, seems to me to be interesting. in addition, to combat the unemployment of the low-skilled and to promote the employment of the elderly, it is imperative to encourage the development of recognition of national qualifications between member states, as well as the development of certification by validation of skills acquired through informal learning.
in writing. the fight against youth unemployment must be a priority for all european governments. european youth must be offered a comprehensive, attractive and competitive training and education system which will make it easier for them to enter the labour market. i believe that vocational education and lifelong learning should be more in line with the needs of the labour market. furthermore, higher education must be combined with vocational training, for example by giving priority to alternating between training and employment. that is why i voted in favour of the hirsch report.
in writing. i supported the gay mitchell report because i believe that we need to increase the involvement of parliaments in developing countries in the development of policy documents for these countries, for example for the poverty eradication strategy. in addition, european development aid must be adequately funded. the european union has committed to collectively devoting 0.7% of its gni to official development assistance (oda) by 2015, which will require an increase in the current amount of eu aid.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the gay mitchell report which sets out parliament's position on the new financing instrument for development cooperation in the european union, based on the lessons learned from the implementation of the icd (development cooperation financing instrument). in this connection, i would like to point out that a high level of poverty remains in developing countries, territories and regions and that funds for the causes of poverty, in particular malnutrition, health problems, education, access to clean water, should be increased rather than moving towards immigration regulation systems which are the responsibility of other financial arrangements. development aid must be such as to keep the populations concerned in their geographical area. immigration regulation must be transferred to another financial instrument and must lead to a strengthening of the resources of the frontex agency. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. development aid policy is neither an altruistic obligation nor a way of giving the former colonizing powers a good conscience, when colonization has taken place. it is a branch of foreign policy in its own right, but it should also be an important element in a strategy to reverse migration flows, allowing people to stay in their countries of origin, or to return to them, and live there in dignity and, increasingly, in prosperity. and because these two areas are sovereign, most of the institutional and financial requirements of the mitchell report are not acceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mitchell report because it is necessary to draw lessons from the last four years of operation of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (dci). the objectives and scope of development aid must be clearly defined. migration is an area where policy coherence for development needs to be prioritised. for example, development aid should finance projects to tackle the root causes of migration (combating poverty), but should not be used to improve border management or to combat illegal immigration.
in writing. i am convinced that impact assessments should help in the preparation of policy decisions. that is why i supported the report by our colleague angelika niebler on the necessary developments in impact assessments, and in particular on the establishment of an independent mechanism. the members of the impact assessment commission (iac) would be scrutinised by the european parliament and the council. they would therefore no longer be subject to the instructions of the president of the commission.
in writing. i have already had the opportunity to say in this house that it is time that impact studies were not only systematic but above all serious. that we should objectively assess the consequences of legislation before we put it into effect, rather than seeking to justify it by all means. and it is not the commission's departments, judges, parties and executioners all together, that are responsible for these assessments. i do not know whether the solutions proposed by the rapporteur are the right ones. but i do know that i agree with his diagnosis and that some of his remarks are particularly relevant. the member states must therefore be closely associated with these studies, because they are better able to judge the national impact of the initiatives taken in brussels. these studies should inform the choices and reflections of the national parliaments, which are now responsible for ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. they must be able to lead to the commission abstaining if its action proves to be unnecessary, redundant or costly. finally, we must be able to draw the consequences quickly of legislation whose implementation creates more problems than it solves. for all these reasons, but without any illusions about its implementation, i voted for mrs niebler's report.
in writing. i welcome this text which denounces the european commission's partiality. it is a pity that he does not denounce the fact that it alone has the power of legislative initiative.
in writing. in recent years, the potential benefits of a european contract law for the internal market have been the subject of much debate. on this point, i think that we should encourage the introduction of an optional instrument by means of regulations so that this parallel system does not impede the national system. that is the approach taken in the report by our colleague diana wallis, and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. the wallis report sets ambitious targets on the actions that can be envisaged with a view to creating a european contract law for consumers and businesses. the challenges are key to helping to improve the functioning of the internal market by better including businesses and consumers. on the one hand, differences in contract law should be eliminated in order to remove the obstacles faced by firms. on the other hand, a high level of protection for european consumers must be ensured.
in writing. as an important step in the implementation of the single european market act, i welcome the adoption of the wallis report. while the heterogeneity of national laws is a major obstacle to cross-border trade, especially for smes, the establishment of a european contract law regime is a real step forward that should be supported. by regulating both contractual relations between businesses and those between consumers and businesses, the adoption of an optional instrument coupled with a toolbox could ensure better protection of consumers in europe.
in writing. what mrs wallis is proposing is nothing more or less than the creation of a 28th legal order, parallel to national laws and intended to replace them in practice, the words 'harmonisation' or 'legislative uniformity' now being feared in the european political context. this new european law is supposed to remove the obstacles to cross-border trade arising from the differences in national laws. the problem is that nothing in mrs wallis' report objectively proves the existence of such obstacles. so that's a problem to solve. and so nothing but the desire to initiate a new method of imposing supranational law justifies such a position. it would also create a real risk of being used to circumvent national protective provisions, in particular consumer rights. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. when it comes to establishing the common market, it is not enough to simply remove the positive barriers between the member states of the union. to reap the benefits of an effective integrated market, it is also necessary to tackle the indirect causes of our citizens' crossborder anxieties. in addition to a number of administrative difficulties, european entrepreneurs are too often confronted with the diversity of contractual rules in force in the member states. these obstacles are particularly difficult for smes to overcome, which are the most effective lever to boost growth. the european commission has therefore published a green paper on the subject and launched a wide public consultation. i voted for this resolution of parliament because it chooses a common sense option of proposing a competing instrument of national rights which would facilitate cross-border trade. this 'european contract' would be optional, accompanied by a 'toolbox' to clarify its use and would promote greater consumer protection.
in writing. as the stieglitz commission in france in 2008-2009 showed, new development indicators need to be considered to complement gdp. the current reference value, although it can lead to certain errors of assessment (for example, reparations for natural disasters are perceived as economic progress), is no longer sufficient. i voted for the anna rosbach report because it asks the commission to continue its research in this area, ignoring the frivolity of the conservatives who believe that only gdp is reliable and the illusions of a part of the left who would like to measure precisely ... happiness! the commission's work will have to be followed closely because it could lead to an important development: a new (more adequate) method of calculating the distribution of european funding to the regions (regional policy), hitherto allocated according to the level of gdp per capita of the regions concerned.
in writing. gdp has been the main economic measure for many years, but its shortcomings are increasingly highlighted when it comes to judging social or environmental progress. this is why this resolution is so important, because it stresses the need for the european union to develop additional gdp indicators to take better account of, among other things, climate change, biodiversity and social integration, which are major political challenges that i am very keen to tackle. i voted for this report because defining and implementing a new set of indicators is a major challenge to better measure the quality of life of european citizens and to improve policy responses which cannot be developed in the light of gdp alone. i believe that this initiative is an encouraging first step towards a better integration of social and environmental issues into european public policies, but to be fully useful and effective it will have to be followed by a real introduction of a new range of indicators and a real and coherent political use of them, not as gadgets but as real tools to help in decision-making.
in writing. the galileo (satellite navigation) programme is extremely important for the european union's mastery of advanced technologies. unfortunately, galileo is facing delays and additional costs. when faced with situations, it is essential to think of new solutions. that is why i supported the report by our colleague, mr remek, which aims to examine all possible sources of funding, alongside the contribution from the european budget.
in writing. i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, which shows the culmination of a major political decision, notably on the establishment of galileo. it is absolutely crucial that the autonomous european satellite radio navigation system be put into operation quickly and, as the report emphasizes, with long-term financial guarantees. the competition from the united states (with the global positioning system - gps) requires us to implement galileo quickly in view of the economic, technical, political and strategic challenges.
in writing. the european union has set itself the objective of becoming the world leader in global navigation satellite services (gnss) with the egnos and galileo programmes, thus ensuring its technological independence from the us gps. given the importance of the economic impact of such programmes, i voted in favour of the remek report which calls on the commission and the member states to ensure sufficient funding to ensure that these projects are completed by 2018 and thus establish themselves as a credible challenger to the us system.
in writing. ten years ago, the european union launched two satellite navigation programmes: galileo and egnos. the first will be operational in 2014 and will offer accuracy of less than one meter whereas gps is accurate to several meters. this technological advance will enable european companies to innovate and be at the forefront of the services that geolocation enables. but galileo is also a strategic issue. europe is currently dependent on the gps system, which is american. when galileo is in place, the union will have complete independence and superiority in this area, and everyone will understand the value of applications. the civil and military resources of the member states will be much more efficient. i voted for this resolution of parliament which, while welcoming the technical success, reminds the european commission of the points where the programme can be improved: funding, public awareness, involving our international partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report by my colleague garriga polledo because it represents a very good presentation of the budget that the european union will need beyond 2013 to meet the political challenges it will face. if europe is to implement the policies enshrined in the european treaties, including the most recent ones, it is essential that it has the financial means to match these ambitions. i therefore voted in favour of the collection of own resources and the creation of a financial transaction tax to feed the budget of the european union. this necessary increase in the european budget will have to be accompanied by substantial savings through the optimisation of (joint) expenditure! the cap (essential for the food security and independence of our continent) and the eu's regional policy (reinforced by the creation of an intermediate category of regions allowing additional financial support for regions whose gdp per capita is between 75% and 90% of the european average, such as auvergne and limousin) are also given their due place. so this is a real report in the service of the citizens!
in writing. i voted on wednesday 8 june 2011 for an increase in the 2014-2020 budget. we know that the budget is the beginning of every political act. without a budget, there's no plan. the budget for the european union must therefore reflect the eu's growth strategy and ambitions for its citizens. the member states have suggested freezing the eu budget for two reasons. on the one hand, the money comes from the contribution of the states, and on the other hand, with a stable budget for the period 2014-2020, all the major eu projects to restore growth and invest in the future of the continent are put to the test. member states want the eu to play a decisive role in taking risks, but criticize it when it does. i therefore voted with the majority of my colleagues (except the eurosceptics) for a 5% increase in the budget to finance future major projects. we now know that states are incapable of solving the problems of globalisation on their own. the next step will be to provide the eu with a budget based on its own resources so that it is no longer dependent on the 'wrong' will of the states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the great merit of this report is that it aims to mobilise the union's budgetary resources in a coherent manner and in the service of the europe 2020 strategy, and is therefore the opposite of the narrow vision of most member states. while the latter sum up europe in terms of their contributions, which they want to see reduced, and their financial returns, which they want to see increased, this report argues for strong integrated community policies in terms of both the historical policies and the new competences conferred by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the european union, through its funding for research and innovation, its support for agriculture and regional development, is making a real contribution to boosting the economies of our european countries. that is why i fully support the proposals adopted today by our parliament to define the budget of the european union for the next seven years. in order to meet the needs of citizens, parliament proposed the creation of a new category of regions within the framework of the structural funds whose gdp per capita is between 75% and 90% of the union's gdp and which will thus be able to obtain financial assistance according to criteria more suited to their situation. i fully support this proposal which will directly benefit the people of my constituency in languedoc-roussillon, for example.
in writing. the european parliament once again decides on the european budget through the multiannual financial framework, a sort of eu five-year plan. the eu, which demands from states sometimes very heavy sacrifices, has no intention of applying these good advice to itself. the proposals contained in this text are unreal and more like anesthetic incantations; waste and bureaucracy still have their good days ahead of them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december, and the council by 31 december. "do as i say, not as i do" could be the new european motto.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, by adopting this report, amendment no 74 in favour of creating a category of so-called 'intermediate' regions for the next 2007-2013 programming period of cohesion policy has been retained, as it is in favour of a more equitable distribution of the structural and cohesion funds between the regions.
in writing. in short, despite the exceptional length of the text, parliament calls for the european budget, in its amount and its distribution, to be adapted after 2013 to the competences and many priorities of the european union, as defined by it. so he demands that it be increased. at least 5% at first. the funding? a new european tax, of course! who are we kidding? europe is already very expensive. with what result? the impotence in the face of the crisis, the nuisance of the euro, trade agreements and schengen agreements, the sterile gesticulation, the parasitism or the obstruction in other areas. at a time when member states are being asked to make drastic cuts in their own budgets, when people are being told to tighten their belts, when social protection systems are being undermined by unemployment and immigration, while those responsible for the crisis continue to binge and the markets speculate, it is indecent that this assembly, the accomplice of brussels, is demanding a single penny more to continue and aggravate these policies.
in writing. with the adoption of the garriga report on the political challenges and budgetary issues for the european union after 2013, parliament is anticipating, albeit too timidly for my liking, the forthcoming debate on the future financial perspectives of the union. the report stresses the need to mobilise sufficient funding, in line with the eu 2020 strategy. the message to the states is clear: we intend to continue to support strong integrated policies, and this will be achieved by an increase in the budget of at least 5%. moreover, in a context where austerity is imposed on citizens, it is important to maintain a strong cohesion policy. this is what we propose in this report, with support for the project to create a category of intermediate regions, which will allow the structural funds to be distributed in a way that is more in line with the economic and social realities of the territories. finally, the union must have the means to achieve its ambitions. we therefore reiterated our desire to introduce a tax on financial transactions, a project which is widely supported by citizens and which would help to encourage their greater commitment to the european project.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it calls for strong integrated community policies. two other important points received my support: firstly, the creation of a category of intermediate regions in cohesion policy to ensure that the allocation of structural funds is as close as possible to the economic and social realities of the territories; the commission has also proposed a new financial transaction tax as a new resource for safeguarding european economic policies. in a time of austerity and unlimited financial speculation, it is right to require the financial sector to help revive an economy that has been battered by its irresponsible behaviour.
in writing. this report makes europe 2020 the backbone of the future european budget. it endorses the european semester, the european stability mechanism and the euro plus pact. he doesn't say a word about the nuclear issue. you got a budget for that? no, i'm not going.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr garriga polledo on behalf of the special committee on political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 in a context of rising populism, the very effectiveness and relevance of eu policies is regularly called into question. yet, in the face of the current crises - financial, economic, social, climate - we need not less europe but more europe. the report also proposes to give the eu the means to achieve its ambitions by advocating a substantial increase in the community budget of at least 5% and the mobilisation of the union's budgetary resources to support the eu 2020 strategy. the european parliament, thanks to the action of the socialist and democratic group, also voted in favour of two strong measures in this report: on the revenue side, a thorough reform of the own resources system, in particular by introducing a tax on financial transactions (tobin tax); on the expenditure side, the creation of a category of 'intermediate regions' to strengthen solidarity between the eu territories through a fairer distribution of the structural funds for regional policy.
in writing. the responses to the challenges we face - economic crisis, rapid growth in emerging economies, climate change, demographic upheaval, etc. - can only be effective if they are constructed collectively at european level. i am firmly convinced that the way forward is to see more european union intervention. while the eu budget is a major political lever, the eu's own resources ceiling has remained unchanged since 1993. the resolution calls for resources to be allocated to the european budget in line with the eu's ambitions. i am in full support of this idea and i support it. as regards the european financial transaction tax, i would like it to be implemented as soon as possible, in the absence of an agreement at world level. although i am not entirely in favour of the resources thus released being allocated to the union budget - the achievement of the millennium objectives should, i believe, benefit at least in part from this - i wished to vote in favour of paragraph 171 in order to send a positive signal to the commission and the council on the implementation of this tax.
in writing. in the votes on the report 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe', i voted in favour of the creation of an intermediate category of regions with a per capita gross domestic product of between 75% and 90% of the union's gross domestic product. ten french regions are expected to benefit from the creation of this new category, including nord-pas-de-calais and picardy. the creation of this third category of regions will enable them to benefit from funding for employment, sustainable growth and competitiveness. another important point in this report is that it supports the creation of a system for financing the european budget that is more transparent, simpler and fairer. the commission has proposed measures such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax. parliament regularly speaks out on this and i strongly support this measure which will improve the functioning of the market by reducing speculation, helping to finance global public goods and reducing public deficits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is exciting, but i would like to say, perhaps candidly, that we must not get the subject wrong. this afternoon i have the impression that we are getting a little bit out of the political hypocrisy, since we are not censoring the constitution of a country which is a member of the european union, such as hungary, and which, of course, has its sovereignty alone, together with its people. but for us in this chamber, this is a question and, for my part, a concern which concerns the community legal order, a question which therefore concerns the compatibility between our common values, our european architecture, built by the states, and the fundamental texts of the member states and the other national founding texts. but there are contradictions on non-discrimination, on respect for minorities, on the problems of pluralism, on the opposition, which seem to be contested. so, ladies and gentlemen, if nothing is complicated - as a number of speakers seem to be saying this afternoon - then let the executive board verify the compatibility, the legal conformity of the hungarian text with what is the basis of our community, and things will be said clearly. the credibility of the community order, and therefore of the european union, is at stake.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new hungarian constitution, drafted by the orbán government, is full of articles, some more striking than others, and my colleagues have mentioned them. the chapter on privacy seems to be the high point of a constitution which is based - as we have recalled - on the exclusivity of christian religious references and the traditional family. this text also allows apparently to restrict the right to abortion in hungary by stating i quote "that the life of the fetus will be protected from its conception". in this area, the hungarian government has put words to action by launching an anti-abortion communication campaign which it seems will still use funds from the european progress programme. with the european union's shared core values of progress and gender equality, it would be surprising to see these european funds involved in such a campaign. i therefore want to take this opportunity to ask the commission about its validation of the progress programme's financing of this campaign. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
madam president, i would prefer to have a commission reply on the programme in question. i have already asked the commission this question and i am waiting for an answer as to whether it has been established that these funds were actually used for this campaign.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as passionate and equally exciting as the previous debate was, this one is much more consensual. i feel that no one is disputing the effectiveness of extradition, the european arrest warrant, the reduction in the length of proceedings and, in short, the fight against crime. but the mandate as it is used has also led - as we have all pointed out - to abuses and abusive practices: abusive, when it is issued for small sins - i am silent about the many comic-tragic examples of bicycle theft or other petty theft - abusive and yet more serious, when there are disproportionate detentions, imprisonments of innocent people and the abuse of appeals behind these decisions. the group to which i belong had argued a few years ago for the need to put safeguards in place in the execution of the european arrest warrant and i was pleased to hear you, commissioner, this afternoon, speak of improving the procedure with guides for states and guides for persons who are arrested. i welcome this because i think that the european arrest warrant is something that is very well understood by our fellow european citizens and a crucial test to show what europe is capable of in terms of consolidating justice in europe.
mr president, commissioner, we see that the application of the european arrest warrant raises the question of very unequal detentions between member states. some states are clearly lax in respecting fundamental rights in prison. moreover, of the 600 000 prisoners in the european union, more and more are being held in a member state other than their own, precisely because of the european arrest warrant. as a result, they do not enjoy the fundamental rights guaranteed in their home state. it is no use in this case to incite each other, we must act. that is why last january, together with my colleague stavros lambrinidis, we tabled a written declaration calling for the harmonisation of detention standards throughout the european union and the establishment of independent national monitoring mechanisms. i hope, madam commissioner, that in the green papers you will be proposing you will take this into account and that there will soon be a common basis of minimum rights which is required of all the member states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can sum up the situation of misleading business directories in figures because they are supposedly free. four hundred petitions sent to the european parliament to the address of the committee on petitions. 50,000 very small businesses, associations or organizations affected and then harassed into paying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. these figures only partly reflect the suffering of the victims of such scams. these people are already taking risks when starting their businesses and are soon faced with business difficulties, economic crisis and uncertainties about the future. let us prevent them from being subjected to such fraudulent practices that they have neither the human nor the financial means to combat. there are several possible proposals: first, to put an end to these scams which are weakening our economy. to this end, commissioner, it would be desirable to speed up the revision of the directive on misleading and comparative advertising, taking account of the evolution and sophistication of deceptions in advertising. then we create a blacklist of these companies, to serve as a reference on the principle of "naming and shaming". with the help of the national anti-fraud authorities and the companies affected, we can have a simple and effective deterrent and prevention tool. finally, the actors in such a system must be severely punished. the penalties and fines are often lower than the amount of money collected. we encourage the member states to be more stringent in this respect.
madam president, commissioner, it is not you who are being attacked in this case, but we must understand that we are extremely disappointed that the commission has so easily yielded to the pressure of certain member states and in particular france. so yes, we want to get rid of nuclear power because we believe that is the only way to eliminate the nuclear risk. but in a country like france, we also know that it will take 20 to 25 years to get out of nuclear power and the latest studies showing the statistics of serious accidents in nuclear matters predict that we will have an accident, on a global scale, in the next 15 years. we want serious tests and we do not accept that france has succeeded in passing the risk selection. the tests don't predict the fall of a plane, or the pools, or the reactors, they don't predict terrorist attacks. we reject the idea that the tests undertaken at european level have become a communication exercise by a crisis unit of the nuclear industry, which mr sarkozy will use as a showcase at the next g8 to sell even more epr. that is what we do not accept, commissioner. (the president agreed to reply to a 'blue card' reply (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
indeed, mr liese, that resolution was co-signed and i would like at the same time to reply to mrs del castillo who says that the french want nuclear power. no, you can't! all the polls show that 77 per cent of the french want to get rid of nuclear power, but in france we simply cannot have this debate.
madam president, commissioner, unlike the french government, i would like to see a great public debate. we need to do a full stress test. fukushima showed that we must imagine the unimaginable. without taking into account risks such as terrorist attack or plane crash, the formula chosen does not meet this need. a transparent debate, because the choice to continue or stop must be based on a broad citizen consensus, informed but not short-circuited by expert debates. an independent and contradictory debate, to avoid any risk of conflicts of interest and allow for appeasement. finally, as an alsatian, i know how much the fessenheim plant is worrying our german and swiss neighbours. instead of devoting a definitive national mandate to these matters, why not at least encourage the intersection of responsibilities between our security agencies? security would be gained, and so would transparency and citizenship at european level.
madam president, we have two questions before us: the nuclear share in europe - on this question, i believe, there will have to be a public and transparent debate in the union and the member states concerned in the coming year - and the question of the tests which brings us here this morning. i would like to point out to you, commissioner, the four principles which i believe should be the basis for a genuine monitoring mechanism. first principle: a control mechanism must be compulsory. secondly, this monitoring mechanism should be entrusted to an independent and impartial authority. i'm not a big believer in self-regulation. third principle: this mechanism should be binding. if tests ever show negative results for certain plants, these tests should be mandatory for member states, which would then have no choice but to close those plants which would not work. and fourthly, this mechanism must be transparent, that is to say, its results must be brought to the attention of the public. this is how we may be able to enter into what lena ek has called a culture of european security.
madam president, commissioner, we can only thank and congratulate you for taking this initiative. unfortunately, i join those who are particularly disappointed by the result, which is a success for the nuclear operators, for the safety authorities who have covered up what has been done for thirty years and for the member states who do not want to question the choices they have made, not only to maintain nuclear power, but the choices of risk assessment. commissioner, we must go back to the roots of the problem, go back to euratom as you said, that is to say, go back to the question of the freedom of the member states to block everything, as france has obviously done. we must return to the questions of liability which are not acceptable, because if the common law rules on liability applied we would not have these problems, and return to the application of common law as regards the right of citizens to information in europe, which, under the present conditions, the system in place clearly does not ensure.
madam president, this debate has started badly with the good people, the anti-nuclear people, on the one hand, and the bad people, the people who still support nuclear energy, on the other. i would remind you, however, that nuclear energy is part of the energy mix that we have wanted, that we have wanted here in this parliament. secondly, i would like to make a few comments on the debate which is based on the collective fear syndrome. it is unfortunate, however, that we are dealing with a subject as important as this. it is true that nuclear power stations can, in some cases, present risks, but i am particularly shocked because there is a certain disregard here in this parliament for the personnel who work in nuclear power stations on a daily basis and who ensure our nuclear safety every day. so, please, let's be serious about this. we know that in the european union there is a desire to ensure the safety of our power stations every day. i would also like to point out that it is well known that flying over nuclear power stations is prohibited - at any rate, this is the case in france - and that there is no nuclear power station in france that is not more than 25 kilometres from an air base which is obliged to control the airspace above a nuclear power station. so, commissioner, yes, we agree with you. we're fine with these tests. well done, you got them. these tests are essential because we must restore public confidence in our nuclear power stations. these tests are essential, they must be done in a spirit of complete independence to restore that trust. but it is also understandable that confidentiality is necessary in certain cases. when it comes to the fight against terrorism, it is unthinkable that a member state would reveal in advance the plans for a strategy to combat terrorism. so let's not get carried away! let us trust our commissioner, and i am confident that we will have tests which will be rigorous and which will reassure us.
madam president, commissioner, i would nevertheless like to point out that at the international meeting in kiev on the 25th anniversary of chernobyl, the institute for radiation protection and nuclear safety announced a major accident in europe in the next 20 years. hence the importance of stress tests, hence the importance of improving reactor safety and security. we are faced with the increase in ageing, in outsourcing. 80% of the people who work in nuclear are subcontractors. we also know the geostrategy of the terrorist threat. when you see these stress tests at the french level, it becomes relaxation tests. i congratulate you, commissioner, on the introduction of these stress tests, but you should intervene to show your disagreement with certain member states, including the uk and france, to make it clear that this must not be a national issue but a european issue, to guarantee the security of european citizens.
in writing. germany's recent decision to phase out nuclear power by 2022 marks a new step in the ongoing debate in europe on energy independence for the continent and possible sources of alternative energy to nuclear. nuclear energy, however, remains an important component of electricity supply in many european countries. the safety of nuclear power stations and installations must be a central concern of the member states. nuclear safety tests should not only be carried out at european power stations, but also in all nuclear-power producing countries. the effects of a nuclear disaster often extend beyond the land borders of the states. in this context, i welcome the agreement reached in paris the day before yesterday on the need for all countries with nuclear installations to carry out safety audits to assess their ability to withstand events hitherto considered 'unlikely'. finally, i congratulate commissioner oettinger on reaching a consensus on the criteria and procedures for the implementation of stress tests for nuclear installations, which guarantee the highest level of safety in the world.
in writing. i am convinced that the european union will have to play an important role in the fight against poverty and the recovery of the sudanese economy. i therefore stress the importance of maintaining the union's humanitarian aid to sudan and south sudan.
in writing. this resolution - which i helped draft - comes at a key, still critical, moment in the resolution of the conflict in south sudan. in january, south sudanese voted overwhelmingly in a referendum in favour of independence. in a month, a new state will be born. however, many concerns remain, particularly following the recent violence in the disputed abyei region. more than ever, at this pivotal time, parliament wishes to reaffirm its full support for the peace process and calls on the sudanese and south sudanese parties and the international community to remain committed to the implementation of the 2005 comprehensive peace agreement. parliament called in particular on the sudanese and south sudanese parties to propose concrete plans incorporating the sensitive issues of citizenship, debt sharing and oil revenues. these plans will also have to deal with the difficult question of borders in order to guarantee the peaceful and sustainable coexistence of the two states in the long term.
in writing. i believe that the european union and russia must intensify negotiations on the conclusion of a partnership and on the establishment of a comprehensive agreement, which would cover the political, economic and social regime and also include all issues related to democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. on the eve of the next eu-russia summit in nizhny novgorod on 9 and 10 june, we are sending a clear message to the member states: more ambitious agreements - trade, visas and cooperation - must be conditional on guarantees of respect for human rights. the european union must do more to encourage russia to respect its international obligations and commitments. since 1994, there has been no change in our relations with moscow, whereas we clearly need an update of our partnership and cooperation agreement. this should go hand in hand with real progress in the field of democracy and the rule of law. finally, it is unacceptable that the supply of natural resources should be used as a political instrument.
in writing. the russian federation and the european union have developed a privileged partnership, and the common fight against international terrorism is one of many examples. in this context, i supported the resolution adopted today on eu-russia relations ahead of the summit on 9 and 10 june to establish a new strategic agreement. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all its citizens are protected.
in writing. the text calls on russia to "abandon any protectionist measures" and threatens retaliation if russia does not comply with its demand. it envisages reciprocal free movement of russian and european citizens only in the long term but supports the ongoing free trade process. he is not opposed to the ottoman project for a european missile shield. the arrogant imperialism. it does not, however, ask for the immediate closure of the chernobyl-type nuclear reactors which threaten us all. i am voting against this despite the demands for respect for the democratic rights of russian citizens, which i support.
in writing. in recent years, the european parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning misleading commercial practices by certain directory companies. these petitions come from independent traders, voluntary organisations and family businesses that have been victims of misleading directory companies. the current directive on deceptive practices is not enough, so i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the european commission to speed up the revision of this directive so that such deception can no longer take place.
author. - mr president, as is not customary, today the gue/ngl can only regret the tone of the resolutions which have been submitted to us. this is particularly true of the one concerning madagascar. i had the opportunity to denounce them in february 2010 during the previous emergency resolution on the country. in this country, as in many others in africa, the european union is demonstrating its political impotence and we are not going to change things by calling for the worsening of economic sanctions against this country. the only victim of this situation is, and will always be, the malagasy people who do not need this. we would have preferred the european parliament to send a clear message of support to the mediator of the central african development community, who has been working hard for a year to try to find the most consensual solution possible. we would have preferred a message congratulating mr chissano on his mediation work, which led him to present a road map to sadc for the resolution of the political crisis in madagascar. a new meeting of the sadc is to be held in johannesburg on saturday in the presence of all the representatives of the different malagasy political currents in order to approve this road map. we want to speak for the malagasy people and insist that it is up to them, and them alone, to decide who will govern them, without international pressure. the role of the european union is to help them do so. we will therefore not join this partial resolution, which is likely to add fuel to the fire instead of supporting the sadc efforts, and we refuse to support the worsening of economic sanctions.
author. - mr president, the green group once again condemns the conditions under which mr rajoelina has come to power in madagascar. the political situation in that country is very unstable and very worrying. there are many violations of human rights: violence against popular protests, unlawful arrests, arbitrary detentions, abuse of journalists and political opponents. the security forces enjoy total impunity. leaders of political opposition movements are imprisoned. we demand their release. the uncontrolled management of the country's natural resources is also threatening the development prospects of future generations and is setting the stage for ecological disaster. we condemn the illegal exploitation of mineral resources and the plundering of precious timber, and above all rosewood. the restoration of the rule of law in madagascar is an absolute emergency and requires the organisation of free, transparent and democratic elections with the help of the international community and, above all, the european union.
author. - mr president, the gue/ngl has decided not to join this resolution on guantánamo. we do not condemn its content but we find it rather timid. and i regret the way in which we worked on this resolution. what language is used to condemn the violations of human rights by one of the states which claims to be the world's largest democracy, which still uses the death penalty and for which guantánamo is an example to the world of the violations of human rights and international law committed in the name of the fight against terrorism. men have been detained for almost ten years in this part of cuban territory, for the sole purpose of escaping the standards of american justice and while there is no evidence for a number of them. these men are being held arbitrarily. it's worse! many of them were tortured, including on european soil: in romania, latvia and poland. but that is not the way to go about it, because we can give lessons on human rights to the whole world without being able to enforce them in our own country. and today, in this resolution, we must not even say it! i am very sorry about that and i do not think that is the way we are going to improve the respect for human rights in the world. yes, we must prevent the death sentence against mr abdel-rahim and many others, but we could have condemned the us position more strongly in this area, including, at the very least, regretting mr obama's change of attitude, particularly on military courts. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
author. - mr preda, we were in the same meeting, we do not have the same conception of these thursday afternoon sessions. i am against double standards in human rights. for some countries we are overwhelming, we make broad generalizations and for others, as if by chance, we remember only particular situations. the meeting to prepare this resolution was, in this respect, a caricature and that is why i left the meeting. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
author. - mr tannock, i refer you to my statements on cuba. i said that i condemn the violations of human rights all over the world, in cuba as elsewhere. you don't have to teach me anything about this, i'm not defending christians against muslims, i'm defending all human beings living on this planet so that they live free and equal, all of them!
author. - i notice that mr preda is very far removed from the situation we were talking about in order to come to romania's aid, but that was not my point. i regret that he said something to me that i consider insulting. i am sorry, mr preda, but i have never defended, here on these benches, or in my entire life, any dictatorship in the world. i have always denounced violations of human rights, whatever they may be in all states, whatever they may be. i will therefore ask him to withdraw his comments about me and i thank him in advance.
mr president, this is a typical example of how the european union is exploiting the issue of human rights! we refuse to condemn the united states clearly for the criminal attitude it has shown in guantánamo. we refuse to accept the responsibility of european union member states for allowing the imprisonment and torture of prisoners in secret cia prisons. we refuse to talk about the miners, who are recognized by unicef as child soldiers arrested, imprisoned and tortured by the united states in guantanamo, while in other countries we do not hesitate to denounce horrible dictatorships and to vote for sanctions. when it comes to ourselves and the united states, human rights would be less of an issue. we are calling for universal human rights. we also ask that our attitude be guided solely by the desire to serve the people and, in this context, we want the united states to be tried for violation of human rights, just as the members of the european union who are allegedly guilty of complicity should be tried. international law must be respected at all times and torture and executions in the name of the war on terror must be stopped. finally and above all - and this is worth repeating - we must close the guantanamo base, and we must also return all of cuba's territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for intervening in this vote just to ask for amendment no 9 to be placed not in paragraph 4 but in paragraph 7. i think this is a mistake on our part. amendment no 9 concerns the right to a fair trial and if it were adopted - which would surprise me, but it would still - it would overturn amendment no 12, which concerns a very different subject.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, madam president of the council, dear enikő győri, first a word for you, for all the work you have done and especially for the method you have used and the hours you have devoted to this work, especially with parliament. i think it's worth saying, and thank you again. (applause) i would like to thank you applaud it, it had to be done. it was well trained in our group. so she knows what parliament is. the european council has rarely intervened in such a difficult and tense context. rarely has there been such a great expectation in the public opinion of our different countries, for courageous and united decisions by their leaders on the burning issue of the euro and the debt crisis, but also on economic governance. in several countries, and especially in greece, our fellow citizens are confused, anxious and deeply concerned about their future and that of their children. i want to take this opportunity to send three messages to our greek friends. the first message is that europe stands in solidarity with them and we europeans are doing everything we can to help them out of a very difficult situation in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility. and i insist on responsibility. secondly, the situation they are in is the result of long years of living beyond their means - as is the case in many other european countries. it is necessary to say so, and i call on all europeans to face the facts. my third message is the consequence of the first two: europe can only help greece, like any other country in difficulty, if it does everything it can to bring about a lasting improvement in its economic and financial situation. it takes sacrifice, but it will eventually generate positive change for this country. this too must be said, and i cannot help but refer to the example of latvia, which was on the verge of bankruptcy a few years ago and which, thanks to a courageous policy of recovery led by prime minister dombrovskis, elected and re-elected by his people, has regained its equilibrium. there are two possible attitudes to the current situation: either we just march in the streets and strike - that is part of the trade union movement (i was a trade unionist) - or, after expressing our concern, we start working to redress the situation in a just policy. my group, ladies and gentlemen, calls for a surge. it calls for a consciousness in each of our countries that change is both necessary and beneficial. we will not get out of the crisis by appointing scapegoats (europe, the imf or others) but by rolling up our sleeves. and when i say we, it is the political class, of course, but it is also each and every one of the 500 million europeans. i come back to the european council, from which we expect a confirmation of european solidarity. but beyond the current crisis and to get out of it permanently, we also expect deep reforms in economic governance. because if we have managed to achieve the monetary part of economic and monetary union with the euro, the economic part is insufficient and we are paying the price today. the epp group is advocating a community method in the negotiation of the legislative package, but only to avoid that, as has happened before, our states can evade their obligations too easily. when the council, together with parliament, decides on economic rules to be respected by the 27 member states, it is not to derogate from them at the first opportunity. that is what we want to be sure of, nothing more, nothing less. if there is any merit to the crisis we are experiencing, it is that we have learned from the past. i ask everyone in this house to understand that. i would like to end on a positive note, welcoming the expected decision of the council on the forthcoming accession of croatia, which is due to become the 28th member state of the union in a few months' time. this decision will reward the enormous efforts made by the croatian people, by its government, whose courage and sense of the general interest i want to commend. this accession is an important positive signal for europeans who are currently in doubt about themselves. yet the values that europe embodies - solidarity, tolerance, openness to others, respect for minorities, respect for human rights and human dignity - have never been more useful to defend than in a globalised world where, all too often, the balance of power takes precedence over everything else. i am convinced that if europeans want it, if the union overcomes division and populism, we will emerge stronger from the difficult times we are living through. i hope that the heads of state or government will put this vision ahead of all other considerations.
mr president, i would like to say this to the president of the liberal group: the day he and his liberal governments show full solidarity with all the different countries, i am sure that with my group, at the level of greece, i will win, i will be ahead of you, and i will remind you of this here in this house.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the minister, the president-in-office of the council, on her presidency. i would like to greet the vice-president of the european commission and say a few words. first, about greece. i think it is a question of consolidating the financial situation and considering measures for growth. on financial consolidation, it is clear that it is extremely difficult to govern with the past while looking to the future. i propose the creation of a sort of credit intermediary which could, in the context of a default structure, house the bad debt of greece in an adequate financial structure. since we have a political consensus that we should not have a capital loss, why not split the greek debt and thus allow the greek government to manage the future and, in effect, this mediator to make amends for the past with restructuring? the banks must also participate in the interest rate debate, since they made huge profits by buying debt at 16%, and when debt returned to 8%, they doubled their capital. i am proposing an inquiry into the financial movements of sovereign debt, which could be entrusted to the european financial markets authority. the credit institutions have in a way done what we call, in french law, a kind of abusive support to a structure over-indebted. they have therefore done wrong and caused damage, and they must be made good. on growth, we must support president barroso's proposal for a billion euro plan and we must have a real development plan for greece. i would like to take up the idea put forward by daniel cohn-bendit: why not look at military spending, which accounts for four points of gdp? and if the european union could arbitrate between turkey and cyprus, i think we would save greece two points of gdp. these are the kinds of measures that would allow us to have a growth plan for greece.
in writing. i wonder about the outcome of this council which is supposed to be an opportunity to discuss the progress made in the implementation of asylum and immigration policies and the consequences of the arab revolutions on europe's borders. if the option chosen is to take this opportunity to strengthen external border controls, then let us say it right away, once again we are on the wrong target. it is not enough to continue a repressive policy, which is known to be ineffective and to cause serious human damage. we must remember that people in need of protection are at the door of europe, doors which are closed to them under the false pretext of costs and abuse. in the wake of world refugee day, let us first of all stress the responsibilities of europeans, which the member states are wrongly afraid to assume. otherwise, the 2012 meeting to which these same states have committed themselves will be in danger of being missed.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr deß, his colleagues and the fictitious rapporteurs for the work they have done to produce this text, which i believe is both balanced and ambitious and which we shall be voting on tomorrow. almost six months after the george lyon report, which set out the european parliament's guidelines for the cap after 2013, the european commission decided to build on this work, largely echoing its guidelines in its communication of 18 november. this new report, which the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted almost unanimously, confirms the direction we want to see the common agricultural policy take in the coming years. our farmers are not called upon to produce simple commodities, that is to say simple market products. they are primarily intended to produce food for our 500 million european citizens, but it must also be able to contribute to feeding the rest of the world. to say it so clearly is not just a semantic choice, it's a philosophical choice we're making. the report by mr deß endorses a positive approach to the contribution of agriculture to the environment and ecology and calls for the often burdensome administrative constraints imposed by european regulations and national legislation to be removed. by advocating both a reduction in direct aids and a renewal of the regulatory tools, it also marks a new vision of society's perception of the cap, but also of the globalisation of trade. our debate today is taking place at the same time as the g20 agricultural debate on the regulation of world commodity markets, and in particular agricultural commodities, is opening in paris. our approach is not that of a parliament isolated and cut off from the world, but is, on the contrary, at the heart of a reflection which must enable us to provide a global response to a global challenge. as we did a year ago in the george lyon report, as we did a month ago in the garriga report on the financial perspectives, we shall vote tomorrow for the maintenance of the agricultural budget during the 2014-2020 programming period. we may be back a long way on this point, but it will still be necessary to arbitrate and make choices because we will not have the means to do everything...
the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, michel dantin was cut off, but he was going to explain to us that the issue of food on a global scale is important: yes, it is important. this report and the previous reports, as well as the commission communication, as has been said, seek to show that europe is pursuing a common agricultural policy which ensures food security in europe and contributes to the world food balance. this requires political commitments on market regulation. this is what is being discussed today and what we too must bring to our debates at european level. this requires, at a time when we want to abolish the european food plan, to bear in mind that this food question in europe remains a matter of solidarity and a matter of extreme acuteness: almost 30 million europeans are currently suffering from malnutrition. let's not forget that. finally, the report sets out the main guidelines: greening of the agricultural policy. yes, our agriculture must take a positive approach to the environment. it must focus in particular on this dimension at european level and guarantee it through a first pillar which integrates this environmental issue. secondly, and this is very important, there is a compromise which has been negotiated for a long time and to which i have been committed from the outset: the question of the degressivity of aid. finally, to ensure that the distribution of aid takes account of two criteria: employment, because i think it is necessary to incorporate into agricultural policy the idea that it can contribute to employment, and, of course, the production of public goods. it is better to have this approach than to continue to debate the cap on aid without ever reaching any solution. i say this this afternoon because i mean it. i would like to conclude by saying that this report and parliament's commitment are only valid if the budget for agriculture remains as it is today. i say this in response to the comments made by the commissioner and the president of the commission on the second pillar. we cannot accept it being diminished.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the report before us outlines a new direction for the common agricultural policy, whether it be the progressive use of public funds in relation to employment and the environment, the recognition of agriculture as a producer of public goods or the concept of active farmers. but we have seen too many good intentions without improving the lives of the working peasants. let us be aware of the dramas that are unfolding in our countryside right now. the idea of a safety net is interesting, but it is not enough in itself. we must return to mechanisms of public intervention to obtain guaranteed basic prices for small and medium-sized producers. the combination of economic, social and ecological efficiency also requires an end to the current ultra-liberal free trade that is destroying family farms. the european union must therefore act to radically change the world trade organisation and work more closely with fao to return to systems of cooperation which include variable customs duties at borders. similarly, much more funding would be needed for research in europe. finally, we must insist on maintaining the budget of the policy... (intervention purpose off the microphone)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of freedom and fraternity, and of equality with the peasants and the new eastern member states. yes, i agree with you. i think we've made a big step forward with this report. it was not easy at first and we were rather in a confrontation, but we came to a consensus and that is the most important thing. this consensus helps to protect the overall project and i believe that this is the great merit of the european parliament. we have succeeded in this and it was not easy, and i thank the rapporteur, mr deß, and all the members. step one. in this text we reaffirm the need for equality, justice and fairness between producers and between territories, and i think this is important. we have very clearly established and confirmed the maintenance and development of small farms, the consideration of small farms, which are essential for the quality and biodiversity of the territories. i think that was also fundamental. the fact that we have introduced this notion of making agriculture agronomic, of turning the page on industrial productivist agriculture, is now written into the texts. we must now put this into practice, because it is a condition for making agriculture possible for future generations. this is not an ideological issue. finally, today we are concerned about the threats to the budget. we must give a clear answer. what we are now waiting for is to enter the second phase, which is obviously the legislative debate, because, beyond the texts and the grand intentions, it is in the legislative debate that we really see where we are going, and that is what we are waiting for. i would like to end by expressing my anger at the attitude of germany, which has led to a fivefold reduction in food aid to the poorest in europe. it was in the cap budget. i want to find a way to help the poorest: 80 million european citizens do not eat enough to satisfy their hunger.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, at a time when food security is a crucial issue in globalisation, we must preserve our capacity for self-sufficiency. this requires the maintenance of an ambitious common agricultural policy (cap) that can satisfy our most basic need in the long term: food. the cap does, however, need adjustments to better meet the criterion of fairness. the european citizens would not understand that the aid goes mainly to the large farmers: small farmers must also be able to live off their production under decent conditions and be paid fairly for their work. we also need to take better account of natural constraints, such as global warming, mountain areas and water scarcity, in the allocation of aid. the drought that is now raging shows that it is urgent to give our farmers concrete means of coping with water stress within the framework of the cap. i therefore call for a subtle and relevant revision of the cap, which can ensure both our food independence, the vitality of the agricultural sector and the preservation of our landscapes.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, we have had many trilogues, sometimes late at night, with colleagues, the commission and the hungarian presidency. i would first like to thank my colleagues and all these partners for the work that has been done together. the message from the ecofin council is that everyone must take responsibility. i would like to say: 'shit, let us really take responsibility', not with the effect of announcing, not saying that we have reached an agreement quickly, but keeping in mind the economic problems of the euro area and the european union and trying to find real solutions. in any case, that was the main thrust of these negotiations for my group and i think that neither the markets nor the citizens would believe in quick but shallow solutions. our analysis is that it needs a considerable improvement. i think we have already achieved a number of the objectives we set ourselves. i would also remind you that we are not the only ones who have wanted this: the central bank has repeatedly asked that parliament be able to strengthen even more the commission's already courageous proposals. so we have consolidated discipline, that has been one of our guidelines, not for the sake of discipline, but because when common rules in a legal community are violated, the common currency is in danger. we have introduced sanctions for fraud - i think that is a lesson we have unfortunately had to learn from the first years of the euro. we have also tried, as mrs ford said, to put the national budgetary procedures in order, if only to be able to compare what is done in the various countries. but for me, one point was very important: if we go to the citizens and simply say 'we have increased automation', as they say in the newspapers, well, they will feel that some kind of incomprehensible machine is set off in brussels to knock them down when something goes wrong. if we want more discipline, it has to be smarter, and above all there has to be more democratic debate and more discussion across borders. that is why we have proposed - and i thank all the members who have supported me in this - the establishment of the so-called economic dialogue, which must be brought back to its proper proportions. there is no risk to national constitutions, there is simply the will that, particularly within the euro area, but also in the union of 27, we should talk to each other a little more and that this parliament could be the place for this transparent dialogue between the european level and the member states, that it should allow them in particular to express their difficulties, to explain their situation: there are countries that are catching up, there are more advanced countries, there are peripheral countries, there are countries with a stronger demography, and it is important to be aware of all this. i am glad to see that this week in the german press mr habermas again stressed the absolute need to increase democratic legitimacy. i would like to say to mrs ford: 'we are not here to plead for greater powers for ourselves, we are pleading for a greater role for those whom the people send to brussels to defend their interests.' there are other important points, particularly in the macroeconomic area, because i think it is important that all the member states should be subject to this common surveillance. the council should understand that symmetry is an important point: intelligent symmetry, which distinguishes between deficit and surplus situations, but symmetry nonetheless. i will end on eurosecurities, eurobonds, which is one of the points i raised. i would like to appeal to all the leaders of all the political groups: we cannot say that we are in favour of eurobonds and then vote against them. we can say that we would like more, and i would like more myself, but i very much appreciate the efforts that commissioner rehn is prepared to make. in may 2010, he himself, i recall, because it is a question of respect for the commission's right of initiative, made proposals. we want to get them back on the horse. we want the euro to finally play its role as a world currency, to have a large, liquid market, lowering the cost of debt, and that debt can be shared, for a limited part of our debt, of course, in the long term, with a real instrument of market discipline. so i hope that we will have a good vote tomorrow and that this issue will be addressed by all those who say they are in favour of eurobonds with the necessary openness of mind and not ideological bias.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to make three sets of remarks. the first is that when we adopt this package on economic governance, we must take the whole of the lisbon treaty into account. however, the lisbon treaty makes the consideration of the objectives of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring adequate social protection and combating social exclusion a cross-cutting objective which also applies to this economic governance package, and i sometimes have the impression - let me say this - that this objective has been relegated to the second place. this is also why the committee on employment and social affairs wanted the whole package to be based not only on article 121 of the treaty, which deals with the coordination of economic policies, but also on article 148 which deals with employment policies in the context of the link between the responsibility of the member states and the european level. this is also why we believe that, at european level, the question of the role of the epsco council, alongside that of ecofin, must be guaranteed. because - and this brings me to my second set of remarks - if we revise the stability pact with the sole aim of governance that would satisfy the rating agencies, we would miss the appointment we have with the history of economic and monetary union. history now requires us to take a much more comprehensive approach and to examine the objectives to be served by this economic governance. of course, we will have to reduce debt, but we will also have to allow this economic governance to ensure the success of the europe 2020 strategy. and that's where we think other approaches might have been possible. how is it that only pension expenditure can be considered in a special way when you, commissioner, assess the medium-term budgetary objectives of the member states? how is it that this special consideration cannot also benefit future expenditure such as education expenditure, the expenditure we have to make to combat social exclusion, an objective which you set and which we have retained in the europe 2020 strategy? why is it that such an objective and approach does not also apply to research, development and infrastructure expenditure? my third series of observations concerns the functioning of macroeconomic surveillance. we consider it to be an essential achievement of this package, but it must therefore be applied in a symmetrical way. finally, for us here in the european parliament, the issue is, at bottom - mrs ford told us that it was a power struggle - no, it is not a power struggle, it is a democratic issue. if we want european economic governance, there must be a space for public debate, for european democracy, to make this european economic policy work. in this respect, i must say that your refusal, the council's refusal to have the european parliament intervene, through delegated acts, in the definition of macroeconomic indicators, does not seem to me to be a good approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens are questioning the validity of austerity policies which are reducing the scope of their public services and the scope of their social protection. where they do, these policies fail to reduce public debt and unemployment. economists themselves are appalled, as the content - i say the content - of this "governance" package we are discussing today is absurd, because it prohibits fiscal policies from reacting to economic cycles. during the trilogue, the commission representatives themselves admitted to us that they do not rely on any theoretical or econometric model to make rigorous predictions and recommendations. they admit to thinking purely intuitively. in these circumstances, how can we understand that the conservative, liberal and eurosceptic members of this parliament have blindly tried to harden the text proposed by the commission? they are all the more unfit to teach us a lesson when the governments led by their friends have increased deficits by unfair and ineffective tax cuts, are they not, mr gauzès? they make big statements about the europe 2020 strategy, but they refuse to exclude future-oriented expenditure, such as capital expenditure, from the calculation of deficits. yes, mrs wortmann-kool, that is the heart of the debate for us! reducing the deficits, yes, by, for example, reversing the tax breaks that have benefited the state's creditors in the first place, but reducing the deficits without sacrificing investment, training and employment, because today's investments are tomorrow's jobs and the tax revenues of the day after tomorrow, thanks to which we will reduce the deficits. this is the theorem that should be at the forefront of the governance package. my dear conservative and liberal colleagues, some of you want to automatically punish states that are heretics of your dogma with billions of euros. they also intend to punish countries which do not reduce their wages to restore their external balance. they believe that the deficits are mainly the result of the bad will of the states alone, as if the neoliberal model which you never questioned had not suffered its worst crisis since 1929, as if it did not already organise a pressure on the purchasing power of the majority and a massive contraction of tax revenues, these two phenomena being precisely the cause of the rise in private and public debt. the socialists and democrats will be sending a clear signal against this austerity package in the votes, which will certainly exacerbate the outrage that is rising throughout europe. this is a clear signal to all european employees and particularly to our fellow citizens in france and germany, shortly before the elections which will be decisive for the future of europe.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, many comments have already been made on the various reports which make up the governance package. what should be remembered at this stage to appreciate the work that has been done? in fact, the existence of this package, which is now the result of negotiations between the council and parliament, is already a considerable step forward. it fills an obvious gap in the construction of the euro which, unfortunately, only the debt crisis has prompted to be filled. in this respect, the praiseworthy efforts of the hungarian presidency and the quality of parliament's negotiators should be highlighted. i would also like to emphasize the results achieved by parliament in its discussions with the council, which showed a real openness. it is important to remember where we started and to measure objectively the improvements made. but are these arrangements satisfactory, are they sufficient? of course, everything can be improved, but this package already provides real solutions to strengthen the euro area and create the necessary economic coordination. can we seriously claim - as the opponents of this package claim - that we can create growth on the back of a pile of debts that are constantly being pushed into the future? to those who accuse us of being in favour of a governance package that is not based on any theoretical or econometric model, i will only answer this: did the models they speak of foresee or avoid the crisis we are experiencing and which is not over, or did they, on the contrary, lead to risky behaviour under the guise of mathematical truth? tomorrow, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, our parliament will have to take a decision and i hope that it will give a clear and strong signal both to our fellow citizens to restore their confidence in europe and to the market to stabilise our currency.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am not sure if i can respond to all of the members. we would not have time for that, but i will try to provide some insights as regards the points made this evening. i want to, first of all, thank you all for a very substantial and substantive debate which reflects an overall sense of responsibility for europe’s economic future, for growth and stability, and for our citizens’ welfare. i believe we all broadly share the view that balanced and healthy public finances are a necessary condition for sustainable growth and improving employment, which is the goal of the current legislative package. that is why it deserves your support. as many of you have underlined, it is an essential building block in our comprehensive policy response to the current and still ongoing financial and sovereign crisis. why is it so important to adopt this package at the current juncture? because we must be able to show our citizens, economic actors and the international partners that the european union really can in future prevent a fiscal crisis such as the one we have recently experienced, in the case of greece for instance. never again. that is the first building block of this legislative package. that is why we need preventive budgetary surveillance and effective enforcement as proposed in the package and indeed by your rapporteurs and your committee. that is also why we need a genuinely and effectively functioning mechanism to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances, in order to prevent the kind of crises we have seen, for instance in ireland or the credit boom we have seen in spain. that is why we need the second building block in this package: an effective mechanism to identify and address macroeconomic imbalances. some of you, like udo bullmann, sven giegold and philippe lamberts, have asked whether we consider that the issue of symmetry/asymmetry has been settled. i can provide you with my interpretation and the commission’s interpretation of this issue which in fact, if you look at the texts, is extremely complicated. i hope that nobody would block this package for the sake of that because it would be impossible simply to explain it to our citizens. the drafts of both the council and parliament cover both the deficit and surplus countries. that is very clear. the differences in drafting would have no substantive impact on the scope or emphasis concerning the economic surveillance to be carried out. i hope that parliament and the council can work together and find an agreement that is based on the substance and not the semantics. there is practically no difference, so let us tick the box and conclude this important issue of symmetry/asymmetry so that we can start working in order to identify and also correct the macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness divergences. so, all in all, your vote tomorrow will be a very important one, a very crucial one for the european union and its capacity to convince our general public, economic actors and international partners of our capacity to overcome the crisis and facilitate sustainable growth. therefore your vote tomorrow will be a great opportunity to achieve a historic milestone of complementing the monetary union finally with a true and genuinely functioning economic union – which we definitely need – and thus enabling the european union to come out of the current serious crisis with lessons learnt, hopefully also stronger for the future and, in any case, with new appropriate policy tools for sustainable growth, employment and for our citizens’ benefit.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am glad most of the contributions indicate that the job which was assigned to us – and by ‘us’ i mean parliament and the council – to agree on a very ambitious and new economic governance package, is 99% completed. i am also in agreement with many of the honourable members that, after the hard work of negotiations, we have to get the deal done. i am optimistic because, here in this house, i feel a commitment and a real sense of ownership towards the future of europe. let me make a few comments on the particular issue – which is still open –of the extension of reverse qualified majority voting. during the last six or seven weeks, the council has discussed parliament’s proposals at least on a weekly basis. in the last four weeks the finance ministers of the 27 member states discussed the package three times, and each time they made major concessions to parliament on various points of the text in order to pave the way for a timely agreement. we discussed all aspects of all the proposals at various levels. originally, you proposed that the reverse qualified majority voting rule be applied in more than 15 instances. in some cases it was not legally feasible to do so, and we identified where that was the case very quickly. some of the other points in question were already included in the council’s general approach to the decision on imposing financial sanctions. in may, the council agreed to reverse qualified majority voting in two places in addition to the general approach. on monday the council made large concessions, in the last case on the preventive arm of the pact, including a review clause in three years’ time and the ‘comply or explain’ procedure, which was strengthened in comparison with the previous agreement in the march ecofin council. these safeguards can give parliament the necessary reassurance that deviation from the commission’s proposals and recommendations will be kept to a minimum and that cases of non-compliance with the rules, and thus the need for explanations, will be very rare exceptions. it is definitely time for parliament to reconsider its initial position and to make a move towards the council. the markets and investors are vigilant, and they would like to see whether we can deliver the agreement in the coming days or not. i believe it is essential for us to do so. in addition, this package could demonstrate how european institutions can cooperate in a responsible, efficient and constructive manner in such an important field. several times during the trilogues, i heard serious criticisms from members of parliament about intergovernmental procedures. the swift and timely adoption of the package could prove that the community method is the right approach to use in going forward.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i thank everyone for this debate, the commissioner, secretary of state kármán. first of all, i would like to say that i think we have already shown that the community method works well. as diogo has just said, i think the text is still better and that when there is a public debate we are doing our job and the citizens can be informed of what is happening in brussels, as they say. so why do we insist on the overthrown qualified majority? i just wanted to make a simple point. for example, there are countries in this parliament with a larger population, which have more members. at the time of voting, each person is given a weight corresponding to his height. but what democracy has ever seen that when applying the rule, there is a difference between the people to whom the rule applies? when we are implementing the rules we have agreed on together, there can be no arrangements. citizens expect the law to be the same for all. and at european level too, every state, large or small, must be in the same situation. so that's why we're fighting. it's not ideological, it's in the public interest. secondly, the symmetry, especially with elisa. this is an important issue, it's part of the deal. we must realize that it has cost some of us a great deal and that, in order for it to last, there must be as much unity as possible in this parliament on all the elements of the deal. we need to be united. i think, as the commissioner said, that there are no differences between us that are so great that we can overcome them. so i'm calling for unity. we can't ask for support on one side and let the others down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how many times, during the discussions, have i asked you what does it mean to comply or explain and in front of whom? you've been a good lawyer, you've moved the council. they're willing to do it in public. they anticipate the economic dialogue. - thank you. - thank you. ask them to go a little further. that's all we ask. you did a great job, so we're gonna get there.
in writing. as usual, under the guise of solving the problems you have created, you are imposing more europe on us, more power from the commission. a commission which is only a handful of appointed officials, without democratic control, but which is set up as a censor and bodyguard with the right to sanction states! your so-called 'economic governance' goes far beyond budgetary control. it is a mere custodianship of the peoples and nations. the application of the doctrine of limited sovereignty, so dear to the great democrat brezhnev, with tanks being replaced by financial sanctions. i am not exaggerating: one of the reports feels obliged to state that in the event of a change in the majority after an election, the new government should be allowed, but only marginally, to change the budgetary priorities of its predecessor. what priorities are they? the eu's mandate is to repay private creditors, reassure markets, dismantle social protection and accelerate liberalisation in all directions, in line with the eu 2020 programme. we are not in correcting mistakes, improving public management, or preventing a new greek case, we are in the democratic hold-up!
madam president, commissioner, madam president, a country which does not have control over the treatment of its waste should not have recourse to the technology from which the waste originates. no country is destined to become the garbage of another. that is why we cannot but support the commission's position on export and on prohibition and be extremely strict about bilateral agreements which might be concluded. secondly, nuclear waste should be a waste subject to common law with more stringent rules. the definition proposed to us is a definition less than a minimum. in fact, it does not define waste because, if we go to the extreme, there is never nuclear waste, since we can always imagine a new technological solution. i don't think it's that serious. finally, the price of nuclear energy must really include the cost of dismantling and waste. unfortunately, that is not the case today. we cannot apply the polluter pays principle and not be extremely rigorous and serious in controlling the price.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, the priorities set by the committee on employment and social affairs are based on an alarming observation: the economic, financial and social crisis continues to be severe. 23 million people are unemployed, including 5.2 million young people. in its resolution on the implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, the european parliament asked the european council not to consider employment as a secondary issue when considering the commission's recommendation on the annual growth review to make fiscal consolidation the sole priority for 2011-12. this requirement should be reflected in budgetary terms by strong support for the five main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and more specifically the raising of the employment rate, the reduction of the number of people affected or threatened by poverty or social exclusion. the committee on employment and social affairs stresses that these objectives require comparability, compatibility and complementarity between the budget of the european union and the budget of the member states. we are very grateful to our rapporteur, francesca balzani, because we know how much she supports the guidelines set out by the committee on employment and social affairs in the trilogue.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur and welcome the quality of the supporting text for this trilogue mandate, which stresses the urgency of finally mobilising annual budgets in the service of the europe 2020 strategy and in line with the european semester approach. the negotiations are, however, proving difficult, since the commission's aim is to satisfy, by presenting a narrow budget, the rigorous requirements dictated by the member states, while ignoring the needs of the citizens. the fate of food aid programmes for the most deprived is symptomatic. like many of my colleagues in parliament, commissioner, i was informed by the press that the european commission was planning to drastically reduce the budget for the pead. this would mean a fourfold increase from 500 million this year to just 113 million next year. the union is currently spending 1 euro per capita per year to defend the fundamental principle of the right to food of its citizens in a spirit of european solidarity. the challenge to this symbolic euro on the altar of national selfishness and budgetary austerity illustrates the moral and political bankruptcy of europe. it is often said that the measure of a society's development is the attention it gives to the most vulnerable and needy among its members. to use technical and legal difficulties as a pretext for dismantling this food aid system is disastrous for the people concerned, but also for the credibility and image of europe. the commission is mocking the meps and the citizens they represent by proposing in april amounts which it divides by four two months later. i hope, commissioner, that you will look back on this particular decision and that you will not remain deaf to the political objectives and budgetary intentions that are related to it and that are expressed in this trilogue mandate.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a priority debate on cohesion policy is rare, and today's debate is extremely important. regional policy, in its long history, has had many successes and in 2009 became the european union's largest spending item, with €350 billion invested in our regions between 2007 and 2013. today, parliament must decide on the future of this policy and define its priorities for the next budgetary and regulatory negotiations for the next financial framework. i had the honour to work on the future of european territorial cooperation - objective iii of cohesion policy - and i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteur and the european commission for their fruitful collaboration. what is territorial cooperation? what's it for? what are the challenges? how important do we want to make it in regional policy? these are the questions we must answer. today, 196 million european citizens live in border areas. these regions reveal, through the disparities they face, the difficulties our countries are having in adapting to the challenge of opening up borders, completing the european common market and globalisation. europe is divided into 27 member states and 271 regions. the european territory is thus divided and fragmented by administrative borders which define different political and legal systems. to paraphrase a french sociologist, the border is a political object that puts distance where there is closeness. the european union, on the other hand, wishes to bring closeness where history has brought distance, misunderstanding and, at times, hatred. the preamble to the 1957 treaty of rome is the guiding principle for our action as elected representatives of the european parliament. the european union aims to bring people closer together. without erasing them or calling into question their legitimacy, objective iii, with €8.5 billion, aims to mitigate the negative impact of borders in the daily lives of our citizens, in order to transform these fracture borders into seamless borders. this is what makes european territorial cooperation the embodiment of european integration and an extraordinary source of competitiveness. what future are we going to give him? the report contains concrete and pragmatic proposals, based on the demands of the field, the many actors encountered and the expectations of citizens. firstly, an explicit reminder of the added value of european territorial cooperation and its potential for gaining competitiveness. a proposal to increase its budget to 7% of the next cohesion policy budget. maintaining the overall architecture and the predominance of the cross-border component in order to meet the local needs of the border communities. the allocation of funds for each cooperation programme is based on harmonised criteria, in order to avoid the calculation of financial returns which is practised in some member states. more strategic programming of the funds in connection with a europe 2020 strategy on a territorial basis. incentives for regional operational programmes to participate in major cross-border or transnational projects, such as the trans-european transport networks. increased coordination between the transnational component and the macro-regional strategies, simplification of implementation by adopting a separate regulation. better use of the european groupings of territorial cooperation, the only purely community instrument of multilevel governance. finally, improving the visibility and readability of territorial cooperation with local administrations and citizens. in conclusion, i would say that territorial cooperation is one of those purely european policies with high added value. it is the simplest, shortest and cheapest way of achieving a living and practical european integration. today, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have the duty to strengthen the most european objective of cohesion policy.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would say that the most disadvantaged regions of the european union include the outermost regions, which, in addition to their backwardness, have irreparable handicaps, such as remoteness, the small market, insularity, vulnerability to climatic hazards. it welcomes the fact that the fifth cohesion report reaffirms specific and preferential treatment for these regions, in accordance with article 349 of the lisbon treaty. the report also calls for the appropriations allocated to them for the period after 2013 to be at least equal to those they receive during the current programming period. as for the creation of an intermediate category region with a gdp between 75 and 90% of the average european gdp, i agree, but on the double condition that, firstly, the objective 1 funds for the convergence regions are not cut off and i would even like them to be increased by the savings made by the withdrawal of certain objective 1 regions. these economies must of course benefit the intermediate regions, the new regions, but also the others. and the second condition is that this creation must be as favourable as the phasing-out process for the regions concerned. finally, cohesion policy is a policy of solidarity and redistribution to enable upgrading and catch-up. it cannot replace any other strategy, such as europe 2020, which must be financed by other than cohesion policies, even if these two policies must, of course, be coordinated and brought into line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i welcome the fact that this debate is taking place a few days before the final deliberations of the commissioner on the forthcoming financial perspective and the revision of the regulations governing the structural funds, including the european social fund. the structural funds are one of the main tools for implementing the union's economic and social policy. with a community budget with its known constraints and national budgets constrained by rigorousness, it is essential to use these structural funds in an intelligent and efficient way. to this end, the revision of the european social fund regulation will be an opportunity to ensure that this instrument is put in place both in the service of the union's strategy and, of course, within that union's strategy, particularly in the interests of employment and social inclusion. this is achieved by allocating funds according to indicators other than gdp alone and by increasing the percentage allocated to the european social fund. let me say a word, madam president, about the pieper report, paragraph 55 on the globalisation adjustment fund, the content of which i dispute and which should have no place in our debate. this fund helps employees who are suffering from the effects of globalisation and the crisis. the point in question falls within the competence of the committee on employment, it is submitted to you on the initiative of the committee on regional development, and it should be possible to reject it in the separate vote which will take place shortly. i'm counting on the intelligence and efficiency of my colleagues.
madam president, cohesion policy must guarantee harmonious and above all equitable development between all the territories. that is why we are advocating the introduction of a new category of intermediate regions in the allocation of funds, as well as the application of new development indicators, indicators of social justice, welfare and environmental justice. we regret that this is not mentioned in the pieper report. for the sake of fairness, cohesion policy must also tackle the inequalities in development within regions in order to give new meaning to the word cohesion, that is to say, to the solidarity which is the added value of the european union. to do this, it must focus on inequalities, especially in urban areas, which are particularly affected by new challenges - social, environmental - and this is huge. improving the attractiveness and environment of these discriminated territories is to restore confidence to their inhabitants. it is also about promoting a new sustainable city, desirable for all, a model that responds to ecological, energy and socio-demographic challenges, but which puts the living environment and the well-being of its inhabitants back at the centre of its concerns. i would like to conclude with a clear message: after 2013, cohesion policy must have the necessary and stable resources to be able to exist.
madam president, commissioner, cohesion policy is the soul of the european union's policies, the one which expresses the effort of solidarity between its members, without which there is no real union. his record over the last 30 years is excellent. it commands priorities for the future. first, no reduction in budgetary commitments for cohesion policy. mr hahn must be able to build his 2014-2020 programming on the same budgetary bases as in the past. secondly, we need a new architecture for this policy, adapted to new situations and new challenges. the creation of intermediate regions is essential for this. they must be eligible for more targeted and better financed aid, so that each region can remain at the level of the european average, whatever its structural handicap, whatever its backwardness from the past, or whatever its exposure to current or future crises. it is a long-term objective of territorial balance that we are pursuing with these intermediate regions, to avoid a gap between developed regions that are totally saturated and remote regions that are lagging behind and even threatened with desertification in the europe of tomorrow. thirdly, the report by mrs sanchez-schmidt has the great merit of showing how objective 3 is likely to generate considerable european added value. in the new cohesion policy, building on the dynamics of the macro-regions, objective 3 must be as called for in mrs sanchez-schmid's report considerably strengthened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the garriga polledo report, parliament has called for a multiannual financial framework for 2014 that is commensurate with the budgetary challenges ahead. regional policy must therefore retain financial resources at least equivalent to those of the present period. this is a priority. all european regions must continue to have access to the structural funds. we must of course give priority to the catch-up of the most backward regions through objective 1. for reasons of fairness, we must also provide appropriate support for regions which are not eligible for objective 1 but which nevertheless face structural difficulties. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to create an intermediate category for regions with a gdp per capita between 75 and 90% of the european average. i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner hahn for his work. this new system will make it possible to take better account of the specificities of many regions which are neither too poor nor too rich. this intermediate category will also be more equitable as it will provide similar support to regions with a comparable level of development. i would like to reassure the regions that would have been eligible for the phasing-out mechanism, however, that there is no way of leaving them out of the picture. they will be fully eligible for the intermediate category and will certainly be the main beneficiaries. finally, i would like to point out that the creation of this new category will be on a constant budget, thanks to the savings expected from the exits of several objective 1 regions. there is also no question of reducing the intensity of aid for regions eligible under objectives 1, 2 and 3. but if we do not create this intermediate category, the budget for cohesion policy will certainly be reduced. if we build it, we'll keep that budget. i do not think anyone here wants to see this budget cut. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr markus pieper, for his work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress the support which parliament gives here to the creation of a category of intermediate regions which, i would remind you, will in no way constitute - contrary to what has been said - an additional burden on the community budget. we are proposing a revolution in the concept of transition within a constant budgetary framework. we want to move towards a more equitable system for the regions with major difficulties. this transition zone between 75 and 90% of european gdp is a real commitment to a consolidated cohesion policy for the coming years. i am also pleased that our resolution has confirmed parliament's commitment to the outermost regions. the latter are faced with specific and permanent constraints which justify this solidarity effort in order to ensure effectively the union's role as a link in the world.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, today europe is in crisis: financial crisis, macroeconomic crisis, social crisis and moral crisis. the citizens see europe as an enemy that regulates and imposes drastic rigidity. they do not see what the union is doing to invest, to support growth, to integrate the most disadvantaged and to make up for development imbalances between regions. we will vote shortly on the economic governance package, which provides for responsible measures to respect the stability pact, to clean up public finances and to allow growth to resume. cohesion policy is the second pillar on which this growth must be based, sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. economic governance and cohesion policy are two sides of the same coin and it is important to remember that one cannot exist without the other. that is why we must fight to defend this policy, to defend its budget, to convince the states that regional policy is not a luxury but a necessity. the challenges of the budgetary negotiations for the next programming period are many. we must continue to work towards an integrated and ambitious european cohesion policy, which is simpler and more visible, which strengthens territorial cooperation and which addresses all regions in a fair way. i therefore particularly support the proposal in the pieper report for the creation of an intermediate category for regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the community average. this category will allow many regions facing structural growth problems to obtain fair and balanced treatment. and of course i would like to stress once again the importance of strengthening european territorial cooperation. it is the concrete materialization of robert schuman's maxim: europe will not be built all at once or in a single building, but will be built by concrete achievements, first creating de facto solidarity. that was true sixty years ago, and it is still true today.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, you know i am always very short. martin, we are great democrats, you respected democracy, we too. it's easier to win than to lose, that's true. we will continue the negotiations and, at the beginning of july, we will finally vote on the report after negotiation.
madam president, after three years of work, we voted this morning on a very important text for the advancement of consumer protection in europe. it is rightly focusing on online shopping, which in 20 years' time may account for 25% of all trade in europe, which is quite a large amount. these purchases will be in particular cross-border. they will allow consumers to have more choice and also to pay much less. this is real progress. for smes, for the craftsmen as a whole, it is also a very important opportunity to expand their outlets. the main advances are the two: the withdrawal period, which is reduced to 14 days, and the summary of all the information and the total price to be paid before the last key is pressed to place the order. and finally, i am proud to say, in the context of these explanations of vote, that i and all our colleagues voted unanimously for the political groups, because on such a subject we do not need controversy, but of course consensus. and we got it.
in writing. the members of the executive board of the ecb are appointed by the heads of state or government, on a proposal from the council after consulting the european parliament. in this case, the council is therefore consulting parliament on the appointment of mr mario draghi as president of the ecb with effect from 1 november 2011. the committee on economic and monetary affairs, of which i am a member, held a hearing which was quite satisfactory. i therefore support mr draghi's candidacy.
in writing. although the vote on the appointment of certain european oligarchs is by regulation secret ballot, i would like to make it known that i voted against mr draghi. because there is something really deeply unhealthy and perverse, in the midst of the sovereign debt crisis, about naming a former european executive of goldman sachs. the length of time he has held office and the nature of his duties cannot but raise questions for you. apart from being a poor manager, and failing to be the organiser, mr draghi could not have been unaware that the company for which he worked was organising the seemingly legal, albeit dishonest, make-up of greek debt to justify the country's entry into the euro. and you cannot ignore goldman sachs' role in the current sovereign debt speculation, nor its responsibilities in the economic and financial crisis and the investigations it is undergoing in the united states. goldman sachs is a red herring on mr. draghi's resume that disqualifies him for the position.
in writing. the appointment of mario draghi as president of the european central bank (ecb) is, in my view, a fully justified decision, as it confirms the european union's willingness to continue the action initiated by its current president jean-claude trichet. in a context where the economic situation in some countries such as greece is weakening the euro, mario draghi's willingness and determination to maintain a strong currency are essential to ensure the credibility of our economy. i also welcome the appointment of a man who has all the necessary qualifications for such a post. his experience in the european financial stability board and in the governance of the bank of italy is a considerable asset for the institution's international visibility and thus for the european union's position as the world's leading economic power. in the face of the challenges we face in order to ensure the recovery of our economy, i welcome the appointment of a person who has been able to build consensus and be able to pave the way for a stable, strong and competitive monetary union.
in writing. i am thinking of the belgian workers at the opel plant in antwerp who have been sacrificed in the name of the holy globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged by the consequences of the neo-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one could vote against the ridiculous alms given to them by the european elites. but the little that is given can ease their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is nonetheless intolerable. it endorses the relocations carried out by the american firm general motors. it devotes the profits to the commercial appetites of the multinationals and their billionaire bosses. it's the profits they make that should help the employees. not the european taxpayers.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to help workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. it is in this context that the 2834 workers made redundant by general motors in the antwerp region must be given rapid support. parliament's proposal to mobilise eur 9 593 931 to implement concrete personalised services such as job search assistance, training for job interviews, self-employment assistance and individual vocational training should be supported. in the face of the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, europe must be united and show solidarity, and thus respond to belgium's call. european aid must not, however, conceal the responsibility of companies and their efforts to adapt their strategies to the current challenges.
in writing. a very large majority of the european parliament adopted mr matera's report calling for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund of €9.5 million for the closure of the general motors (gm) - opel plant in antwerp (belgium). i voted against this report because it finances the dismissal of 2,834 employees of a company which obtained a loan of 5 billion dollars from the us government in the summer of 2010. in addition, the sale of numerous brands allowed it to restore its financial situation as of autumn 2010 and to be re-listed in november 2010. the public authorities, both european, national and regional, abdicate their powers by agreeing to mobilise public funds to overcome a factory closure which results in nothing but stock market layoffs. this decision is all the more unacceptable as it is taken at a time when the european union and its member states are adopting austerity measures and budget cuts that will fuel economic recession, the breakdown of public services, unemployment, precariousness, falling wages and social inequalities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the fisheries partnership agreement negotiated between the eu and the republic of seychelles for a period of three years is favourable to both parties. the protocol contributes to the stabilisation of the european canned fish market and also enables seychelles to develop a sustainable fisheries policy. this agreement represents 2900 direct and indirect jobs in the seychelles and 760 jobs in europe.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion, i voted in favour of the cadec report which contains my conclusions. fisheries partnership agreements must not be merely a legal means of granting european vessels access to the fisheries resources of third countries. they must also promote the sustainable exploitation of marine resources. the financial contribution paid by the european taxpayer must be used exclusively for development purposes, i.e. it must be spent for the benefit of fishing communities, in order to improve their living conditions, to provide training programmes, to guarantee safety at sea, and to create new local jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs ticau's report, giving the european parliament's green light for the implementation of an agreement between the european community and canada on civil aviation safety. this agreement will allow for mutual recognition of certification systems for an aeronautical product, part or equipment in terms of airworthiness and maintenance. this should prevent companies whose products have been certified in one country from having to repeat all the certification procedures in the other. this simplification is welcome for a trade market between the two regions which represents almost 50 billion euros.
in writing. the implementation report by my colleague miroslav mikolášik gives an excellent overview of the action of cohesion policy over the financial period 2007-2013. it demonstrates the usefulness of this policy, which makes an undeniable contribution to the achievement of the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union. finally, i would like to stress that the adoption of this report comes at an ideal time, as it enriches the debate on the future of cohesion policy (2014-2020). the european commission will shortly be publishing its proposals for updating and thus improving this policy.
in writing. the vote on the cohesion package sends a clear message that we want a cohesion policy that is supportive, effective and ambitious, while remaining one of the most important european policies. indeed, at a time when the global crisis has worsened the socioeconomic situation in many regions and we are already debating the future of cohesion policy, it was crucial for the european parliament to emphasise its opposition to any attempt to nationalise or sectorise cohesion policy. in this particular report, which was intended to evaluate the implementation of the programmes, the european parliament took stock, highlighting successes, difficulties and possible solutions. this will be of great help in the months ahead as the european union sets out, from 2013, a new cohesion policy which will have to overcome the shortcomings of the current policy. it will be important to simplify and speed up the allocation processes, particularly for smes, and to encourage cross-fund and multi-fund financing. i therefore voted for this report, as i did for the other three, to reiterate my commitment to this fundamental policy, while calling for certain changes which have become indispensable in order to meet new challenges.
in writing. in the context of the current crisis in the european union, the recently introduced cohesion policy is one of the effective means of reviving the community's economic machine. the mikolášik report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programmes, which i supported, is a useful contribution in this respect to redefining the objectives of such a policy. by calling for simplification, strengthening and transparency in the allocation of aid under the europe 2020 strategy, the report aims to boost european cohesion programmes to tackle the administrative burdens that are the cause of the current blocking of the majority of allocated funds.
in writing. as vice-chair of the european parliament's working party on urban issues, i attach great importance to the impact that eu cohesion policy can have in our cities, especially in the neighbourhoods with the most difficult neighbourhoods. i voted in favour of this report because my colleague, mr oldřich vlasák, has advocated an important role for urban areas and has found a clever compromise between local, national and european competences. finally, i would like to add that i intend to continue to work on the links to be developed between urban and rural areas, which are too often neglected in spatial planning policies.
in writing. while the vast majority of europe's population lives in cities and cities are facing new challenges, the urban agenda within cohesion policy remained relatively unknown, poorly organised and therefore insufficient. today's vote was an opportunity to underline the need for greater cooperation between cities and peri-urban areas and for greater attention to specific urban issues. i am particularly interested in urban issues, especially since marseille is the second largest city in france in terms of population. the eu, like many others, faces many challenges, such as public transport, the labour market, housing and the fight against social exclusion, which the eu, particularly through its cohesion policy, can help to address. the report focuses on three objectives: physical infrastructure development; economic, social and environmental modernisation of cities; and smarter urban development. the aim was to emphasise the role of urban areas in european regions and to remind them that they should not be 'forgotten' if we wanted balanced regional development.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report as most of our ideas (climate, social cohesion, integrated and bottom-up approach, disadvantaged neighbourhoods, cross-financing, etc.) have been adopted. but i regret that, in implementing the urban dimension, there has not been a clearer signal for a wider use of global subsidies for direct management by cities. similarly, this report should have mentioned more about the opening up of deprived neighbourhoods, the role of medium-sized cities in the urban agenda, as well as the battle for climate and social mix in cities.
in writing. while they account for nearly 70% of the population and 4/5 of the union's gdp, urban areas must become highly competitive areas with a dense economic fabric, attractive centres of technological excellence, and be in direct contact with their regional back-base. by supporting the report on the european urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy, i am therefore advocating a new approach to urban policy, based on close cooperation between the actors at the different levels of decision-making (eu, state, urban area, peri-urban...). the almost unanimous inclusion of such ambitions in european cohesion policy by the members of the european parliament is a testament to the importance attached to the project of rebalancing development between territories.
in writing. under the principle of subsidiarity, urban policy is a matter for the member states. however, the development of our territories cannot be complete without a genuine consideration of the urban dimension at european level. indeed, cities play a key role in achieving our objectives in terms of employment, training, energy efficiency and so on. this report successfully demonstrates the added value of european policies, and even more so of cohesion policy, in the development and modernisation of the infrastructure and services of european cities. i therefore welcome the adoption by a large majority of this report, which successfully reconciles national concerns and local needs with the european priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, while respecting the principles of multi-level governance and partnership.
in writing. although i am an elected representative of regions (centre, auvergne, limousin) which do not border other eu member states, i am convinced of the usefulness of crossborder cooperation and, more broadly, territorial cooperation for the development of the european continent and the rapprochement of peoples. i fully support the proposals made by the rapporteur, my colleague marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, particularly with regard to strengthening the role of the european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtcs) and the financing of this objective.
in writing. objective 3 of cohesion policy aims to bring all european regions closer together, particularly crossborder regions, in economic, social and environmental terms. it is important to strengthen links between these regions, particularly in the energy and transport sectors. at a time when we are experiencing a crisis of the european idea, it is worth recalling the european added value of territorial cooperation. in order to pursue this objective as far as possible, we have therefore asked for a substantial increase in the structural funds devoted to it, in particular to improve transport infrastructure and thus improve the mobility of europeans within and between regions. as a crossborder elected representative, i was particularly attentive to this issue and i am pleased that we have called for closer cooperation between local authorities and with the european institutions. we need to improve the dialogue with them in order to understand the problems better and to face the challenges. finally, since the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes is still too complicated, we called for simplification and stressed the specific nature of the programmes relating to this objective, which are by their nature international.
in writing. i would like to welcome the adoption of this report and to underline the importance of objective 3 'territorial cooperation' in the european union's cohesion policy. our parliament is calling for the share of the structural funds (currently 2.5% to 7%) devoted to this objective to be increased, and i am in favour of this position: objective 3 must be maintained and, above all, developed, in order to continue the integration of the community beyond national borders. as a member of the european parliament representing a constituency fully concerned with crossborder issues, and coming from the only region of france which shares a border with three other european states, i am very much attached to crossborder cooperation issues and projects. these areas of territorial cooperation, especially where cooperation is cross-border, are privileged areas of european cooperation, areas where borders, barriers and obstacles 'exist less'. and by becoming real project areas, these cooperation areas play a key role in strengthening links at local level, between partners from different member states or between citizens, united around common issues. territorial cooperation must be encouraged.
in writing. representing 37.5% of the european population, border regions are a real pillar of integration and bringing european citizens closer together. the success of territorial cooperation is no longer to be demonstrated today. created in 2007 and with a budget of €8.5 billion for the period 2007-2013, this objective, whose resources are divided between cross-border, transnational and interregional components, allows 271 european regions to benefit from significant funding to develop and strengthen common projects and to overcome the various borders (land or sea, administrative, etc.) that affect the daily lives of our citizens. i have no doubt that mrs sanchez-schmidt's report, adopted by a large majority, will have an influence on the work of the european commission in preparing the legislative proposals it will present in september. the report stresses the need to maintain the primacy of the crossborder pillar and to develop incentives to encourage major crossborder or transnational projects such as the trans-european transport networks (tens). these are recommendations with which i fully agree. i would therefore like to congratulate the quality of this report, which has received wide support, beyond the partisan logic.
in writing. all the actors in cohesion policy agree that the parallel existence of several european funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eff, eafrd) does not always allow for an optimal management of the financial resources of the european union. i voted in favour of this report because it offers interesting ways of achieving the essential objective of strengthening the coherence of these systems. supported by the european commission, i am hopeful that this approach will be part of the european commission's future proposals for the regulatory framework for the future cohesion policy (2014-2020).
in writing. as we reflect on and debate the next multiannual financial framework, it was important to recall that cohesion policy remains an indispensable lever for growth and that the budget devoted to it should not be reduced. one of the ways to improve is to improve the coherence between the different instruments and policies, in particular with regard to the europe 2020 strategy, in order to achieve better synergy between the different funds and thus make it possible to conduct a more results-oriented regional development policy. the multiplicity of funds reduces their visibility and thus their knowledge by citizens and interested parties and may also lead to duplication or inconsistencies and thus reduce the overall scope of the policy. in this report we have therefore called for three main objectives to be pursued: the creation of multi-fund programmes, the improvement of technical assistance and the creation of a european guide. improving synergies will thus increase the european added value of cohesion policy for local and regional partners across the european union and may therefore increase the benefits for citizens.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which sets out ideas for strengthening synergies between policies with a territorial impact, on the one hand, and between funds, on the other, through cross-financing and multi-regional programmes, in particular. but i regret that the involvement of local and regional authorities in the decision-making process is not seen as a priority. improving governance by supporting decentralised authorities in their management capacities is a response to the absorption, efficiency and simplification needs that are desired in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague elisa ferreira's report deals with the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, advocating increased surveillance. i support the principles of this, as i do the whole economic governance package.
in writing. the commission will now be able to allocate good and bad points as it sees fit. it will itself set up the indicators which will enable it to rate the states. and be prepared to punish those who do not obey the "recommendations" she will impose on him later. the commission will be able to implement them semi-automatically by means of the reverse qualified majority law. even if the sanctions are lifted, the commission decides. a masterpiece of authoritarianism. i vote against and denounce this democratic aberration.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague diogo feio's report deals with the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure. i am in favour of calculating the debt reduction on the basis of an average rate calculated over three years, rather than a fixed rate every year for three years. i supported this report, as i did the whole economic governance package.
in writing. the text proposes the generalization of reverse majority voting for the punishment of states whose policies are not in line with euro-liberal standards. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. there's one exception. it concerns the states which are reforming their pension systems as requested by the commission. this is the way in which an authoritarian federalism is instituted. i pledge myself never to accept that my country pays any fine to anyone.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague vicky ford's report deals with the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states. i supported this report, as i did the whole economic governance package.
in writing. this report calls for the commission to publish the accounts of national governments on a monthly basis. they will have to do so according to the standards which the commission itself has set out. we no longer pretend to set budgets at national level just to 'incite adherence'. this text endorses the fact that the parliamentary majority helped to create by voting for the establishment of the european semester. i am voting against this text. the french will abolish it.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague sylvie goulard's report deals with budgetary surveillance in the euro area. some of the initial proposals made by mrs goulard (including the creation of a european monetary fund) were not adopted during the trilogues. i consider the balance achieved with the commission and the council on this report to be satisfactory, and i therefore supported it, as well as the whole 'economic governance' package.
in writing. this report sets out the sanctions that will be imposed on those states which do not comply with the european commission's injunctions. it is not concerned for a moment about the consequences of such sanctions on the people and the legitimacy of the commission to sanction elected governments. the only exception proposed is public debate, which should not take place in the state concerned by the sanction. shouldn't the people be involved in the plot that's being played out against them? i pledge myself never to let the commission strike france. i vote against it.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague corien wortmann-kool's report deals with the monitoring of budgetary positions and the monitoring and coordination of economic policies. on this report, the discussion focused on the question of the reverse qualified majority mechanism, which means that commission recommendations become effective if the council does not oppose them by a qualified majority, and on the review clause. i voted in favour of both of these mechanisms because i believe that we must be demanding and ambitious in order to improve the stability of the european budget and thus protect our future.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to help the commission to find the best instruments for measuring the policy deviations that governments could make. is the reference to be the budgetary objective set by the commission or a reference rate based on gdp? that's all most people care about! these instruments will be used to put the people of europe at the mercy of the rating agencies. they will generalize the austerity plans that are currently bleeding greece, ireland and portugal. i am voting against this text and denouncing it. france is independent and sovereign.
in writing. the current events show that the european stability and growth pact is not really effective and has not prevented several member states from encountering serious balance of payments and debt repayment problems. beyond the eu's assistance to these countries, the institutions are therefore working to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to prevent such crises in the future. this is the aim of the so-called 'economic governance' package, of which this report is part. in this case, my colleague carl haglund's report deals with implementing measures to remedy excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. i supported this report, as i did the whole economic governance package.
in writing. faced with the commission's threat to impose annual fines on states which refuse to comply with its authority, the majority finds nothing to do but to propose a staggering of these fines. the commission is proposing that the eu's financial resources be allocated to the eu-imf stability fund, which is hurting the greek, irish and portuguese peoples. to make the executioner's wages pay for the victim! i am voting against this text.
in writing. institutionalized austerity cannot be the only answer we offer to europeans! in seeking to respond to the crisis, the 'governance' package that has just been voted is inherently unbalanced. the strengthening of the stability pact is certainly necessary, and deficits must be better monitored and even punished. but strict rules on deficits and debt cannot be our only answer! we must listen to what the europeans, who are the first to suffer the economic and social effects of the crisis, are telling us: austerity alone is not sustainable! the governance package should be balanced by a european investment plan guaranteeing economically and socially sustainable development! it should introduce the financial tax and the eurobonds. i therefore voted against the feio and wortmann-cool reports, abstained on the ferreira, ford and haglund reports and voted for the goulard report (for eurobonds). the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and to give its opinion on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and to give its opinion on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
in writing. in the context of the euro crisis, member states must no longer escape sanctions if their deficits are exceeded. the six texts adopted today should allow for the establishment of a stability mechanism with financial sanctions when a national public deficit slips towards the european limit of 3% of gross domestic product. while this legislative package is a step forward, these financial stability legislative measures are far from sufficient. governments still refuse to accept that the commission can easily issue a warning and impose financial sanctions. they also refuse to allow the finance ministers of states whose public accounts are in the red to be audited by parliament. europe also needs a genuine european investment policy and public borrowing at european level. this would signal a strong and common european response to the crisis. this could be a guarantee against the risk of the eurozone breaking up.
in writing. the aim is to improve and harmonise consumer protection at european level. the proposal we have just voted on merges four existing directives in order to simplify and complete the existing legal framework for consumer protection. this is the final vote, after an agreement with the council was reached following the first vote by parliament last march. parliament has obtained most of its requests, and i have given my full support to this report.
in writing. online commerce is a success story that is not going away. it is clear that the trend is and will remain sustainable. of course, this is to be welcomed. the role of the legislator is also to prevent the most questionable practices from spreading, to prevent mail order sales from becoming a veritable regulatory jungle. the european parliament therefore gives an overall consistency by this vote. in practical terms, the european consumer is guaranteed a 14-day withdrawal option. under the new rules, any goods ordered remotely must be delivered to the buyer within 30 days. the trader is responsible for any damage or loss of the goods during delivery. last but not least, meps voted for real price transparency. this is excellent news for this sector of the economy, which has everything to gain from this development.
in writing. the establishment of this common set of rights for all consumers in the union is a real step forward for citizens of other countries where consumer information requirements are less stringent and the right of withdrawal is less protected. but the result is mixed, with the commission and the european right seeking above all to facilitate cross-border trade, not to harmonise consumer protection from the top down. it is therefore a small step for the french consumer but a big step for the european consumer.
in writing. the consumer rights directive will allow for maximum harmonisation of european consumer rights. this vote is the culmination of two years of discussions with consumer and trade associations, but above all it is a great victory for the european parliament, which has remained united on this issue. this text provides very important new rules for online commerce. we have put in place a system to ensure that the current order corresponds to the consumer's wishes (main characteristics of the good or service, total price, duration of the contract) before the final validation. with these new rules, sellers will still be required to clearly display the total price of the good or service including additional costs. this will provide consumers with better and more complete information.
in writing. after weeks of negotiations, agreement has finally been reached on this key issue for european citizens, namely consumer rights. by adopting this draft directive, which will replace four existing directives, we want to improve consumer protection legislation and guarantee everyone a minimum level of protection. the directive thus contains major advances, including better regulation of distance and internet sales. it will facilitate the thousands of purchases made every day in other european countries. in practical terms, a french customer who buys a product on a german website will enjoy the same protection as a german customer. as the elected representative of a very crossborder constituency, and as the only french region to border three other european states, i am very sensitive to these issues, and this directive is a great step forward. the internal market is also one of the european union's greatest achievements. ensuring clear consumer protection will strengthen citizens' confidence in the internal market and, more broadly, in the european union.
in writing. i supported this report because i believe that it will above all bring more security to consumers shopping online through better consumer information in advance. i would also like to welcome the fact that the market interests alone have not been given priority. i would particularly like to note that these new rules allow consumers to withdraw their purchase within 14 days of purchase, using a standardised withdrawal form throughout the eu, and that this period can even be extended to one year if the seller fails to inform the buyer of his right of withdrawal. finally, there are exemptions for small and mediumsized enterprises which have informed us of the threats to their activities in the event of a too strict text. they have been heard.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andreas schwab, which was agreed between the commission, parliament and the council and which strikes a good balance between greater protection for all european consumers and easier access to the european market for our businesses. while this directive deals with sales and service contracts between businesses and consumers, in particular distance and off-premises contracts, it is particularly encouraging that european legislation is finally addressing the issue of e-commerce, which is set to take an increasing share in our economies and in our purchasing practices. ensuring a minimum of common rules on consumer protection within the european union means offering our citizens and businesses the security and guarantee needed for the development of crossborder and electronic purchasing, and means working towards the creation of a genuine internal market.
in writing. the internal market remains one of the pillars and one of the engines of european integration. i voted in favour of this report because it is not only a real step towards more europe, but also because its rules, once implemented, will enable all european citizens to enjoy the same high level of guarantees, regardless of their mode of purchase. the new rules will also include clear rules for online purchases: the seller will have to provide the buyer with complete information on the price and characteristics of the goods and a contact point. traditional purchases will also be better protected: all european consumers will have a 14-day withdrawal period, extended if certain required information has not been provided. consumers and traders will be able to benefit even more from the benefits of the internal market if they are better informed and uniformly protected throughout the european territory.
in writing. nuclear power is not the energy future of the planet! the future is in the energy mix. nevertheless, we will still have to manage this technology for at least a few decades (managing the decommissioning of power stations, but also radioactive waste and spent fuel). it is important to realize that this waste has a life span of decades! to establish a framework for the member states and to strengthen the monitoring of the storage choices made by the states: this is now essential! i therefore voted in favour of the directive on the management of this waste. even if the text is capable of improvement and one important point remains problematic for me - the question of the definition of radioactive waste - i believe that we must make progress in this area and that it is useless to deny the need to treat waste. i also voted in favour of the proposal because the possibility of exporting waste to third countries was rejected. that was a crucial point! it would be totally unacceptable for us to allow our most hazardous waste to be exported to countries outside the eu, where we have no certainty about the safety of the long-term treatment and storage of the waste!
in writing. the proposal for a directive on which the european parliament was consulted is a further example of how europe can take concrete action to protect european citizens. the organization of harmonization of standards in the field of spent fuel and radioactive waste management responds to a demand and a need to strengthen safety in this area. i was particularly pleased to see the adoption of a proposal to go beyond the basic safety principles laid down by the iaea, to impose even higher standards which would be based on both the most advanced regulatory and operational practices and the best available technology.
in writing. the tragic events in fukushima have only reinforced the parliament's desire to have a strong and clear directive on the export and treatment of nuclear waste. exports of nuclear waste to countries outside the eu should be prohibited, and exports within the eu should only be allowed through bilateral agreements. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the existing framework for the protection of workers, improve control and strengthen the investigative powers of the competent authorities to carry out regular nuclear safety assessments, investigations and controls. at the same time, research into alternatives to deep-sea landfilling will have to be intensified. the nuclear question can no longer be dealt with by ignoring public opinion, which is increasingly unfavourable to it. we must have a common policy on renewable energy, develop alternative sources of energy - without resorting to fossil fuels - and at the same time ensure that we are self-sufficient.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste to send a clear message to the member states: the polluter must be held responsible for his waste! the export of radioactive waste to third countries, whether it be waste from activities linked to the production of electricity or from activities in other fields such as medicine, research and industry, is an irresponsible practice which the european parliament condemned in adopting this report. despite the success of this vote, given the cross-border implications for the safety and health of european citizens, i regret the minor role accorded to parliament in nuclear matters, which has only a consultative power in this area. the report, which was adopted by a large majority, stresses the need to find a new legal basis for nuclear legislation so that the interests of european citizens are better represented on matters which concern them so directly.
in writing. following the fukushima incident in japan, the eu needs to develop ambitious nuclear and energy policy standards and framework treaties. i voted in favour of the cizelj report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from the energy, medical and research sectors. third countries are not the "garbage" of the eu member states. i am glad that the s&d group's amendment on the ban on the mass export of waste to third countries, unless it is exported for recycling and then reimported into the eu, has been adopted by the members. the authorisation of one eu country to export its waste to another member state, only via a bilateral agreement, provides a necessary framework for nuclear and environmental safety. i welcome the fact that parliament has opposed the storage of such waste in seismic zones and that the powers of the national authorities have been strengthened. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels.
in writing. we are here to vote on a proposal for a directive on nuclear waste based on the euratom treaty, so our assembly has only an advisory opinion on this text, and i regret that. i hope that the council will give our position due consideration. one of the most controversial issues in the debate is whether or not to allow exports of nuclear waste to countries outside the eu. i have clearly supported the option of banning exports to third countries, contrary to what was originally proposed. i also supported the proposal to allow exports of waste only for recycling, and only on condition that it is then reimported into the eu. this position was supported by a majority, and i am glad of that. i also insist that workers involved in the management of radioactive waste, from its production to its disposal, receive adequate protection and training. unlike the commission, which considers deep geological storage to be the safest option for highly radioactive waste, i believe that research into alternatives to deep burial of waste should be supported and intensified.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the ep's agenda. it was again mentioned during the vote on the 2012 budget. while the cost of the project has increased exponentially since its launch in 2006, from 6 to 16 billion euros, i believe that it must now continue with the available funds! no more euros should be added to iter: i therefore voted against the amendments against an increase in expenditure on iter, but unfortunately they were not adopted, because there was no majority. if research -both fusion and fission- is a good thing (even if it has to be diversified), i deeply regret the increase in appropriations (another 700 000 euros for 2012) as well as the financial tinkering planned which would lead to emptying part of the european research budget to finance only iter. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european research area, which would be a new instrument for the development of the european research area. a rebalancing between the two is, however, essential, particularly in france where nearly 80% of the research budget is still devoted to nuclear energy!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague francesca balzani setting out parliament's position in the forthcoming negotiations on the 2012 budget. the european parliament has today given its instructions to those of its members who will represent it before the council and the commission in the budget negotiations which will begin on 11 july. the point to be made in this vote is that we, by a large majority, wanted to warn the council against any attempt to reduce the european budget. of course, it is not a question of spending for spending's sake. we are not unaware of the terrible crisis that is sweeping our continent. but, as the socialists have long said, europe will not emerge from this crisis by sacrificing its future and selling off future growth. we must have the courage to say so and not be afraid to confront populism: we do not need less europe. we need more europe! until we give the union the means to achieve its ambitions, it will be an illusion to believe that it can find its way back to the path of the peoples.
in writing. while the various agricultural sectors are worried about their future, i voted in favour of the report by mr dess because it calls for a strong and sustainable common agricultural policy for the benefit of all farmers. in the present context, the european union needs more than ever to ensure its food independence, the quality of food products, the protection of the environment and adequate incomes for those who contribute to it. adjustments are necessary, but the cap must evolve and not be revolutionised. that is why i welcome the work done by my colleague the rapporteur.
in writing. this vote was less public than the economic governance package, but it is nonetheless the most important vote of this plenary session in brussels. the common agricultural policy is becoming an increasingly important issue, and at the dawn of the great debate which will shape our common agricultural policy for the period after 2013, this vote provides a particularly interesting roadmap. we have huge questions before us. the european parliament has set out the broad lines of its priorities. our common agricultural policy must be an opportunity to take a step towards greening practices. this vote goes in that direction. the european union must better distribute its aid among the countries and among european farmers. this vote also goes in that direction. with this vote, the european parliament is once again proving that it is a place of constructive consensus and that it is committed to preparing for the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the dess report entitled 'the cap to 2020: food, natural resources and land - meeting the challenges of the future'. i am glad that this text calls for the maintenance of a strong and sustainable cap. this requires a budgetary allocation commensurate with the ambitious objectives to be pursued. it is therefore requested that the union agricultural budget for the next financial programming period be at least at the same level as in 2013. this very comprehensive report takes account of all the interests involved. rural development and the interest of farmers are safeguarded, as are the protection of resources and environmental aspects.
in writing. we socialists have made substantial changes to the draft of the german conservative rapporteur of the epp, which many considered to be very inadequate, and have succeeded in securing a majority in the european parliament on the objective of a fairer distribution of agricultural aid. the abolition of historical reference values, aid to small farms, the rebalancing in favour of livestock farming and, above all, the adoption of the principle of the degressivity of direct aid in relation to employment and the environment are decisive steps forward in this respect. i welcome the work that has also enabled the development of tools to encourage agriculture to pursue a more sustainable development, taking into account food security, the environment, territories and employment. greening of the first pillar aid will also provide incentives for farmers to adopt good agricultural practices and to be economically and ecologically efficient. commissioner dacian ciolos must now use this report to make good proposals by the end of the year.
in writing. europeans must have access to a healthy, varied, balanced and diversified diet. agriculture and its production of foodstuffs are now highly strategic and their international treatment of the highest importance. food is a very specific issue and the competition between the agricultural regions of the world is jeopardising the food security of the population. it is at least as much through improving the productivity of the territories as through the search for international competitiveness that we will achieve a better self-sufficiency of the eu. the eu must also seek to ensure that producers have an income, mainly from the fruits of their labour. in line with the reform applicable in 2014, the common agricultural policy must address the following priorities: sustainable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, measures to combat climate change and balanced territorial development. if eu agriculture policy is to ensure both security of supply and quality food and to contribute to environmental protection and renewable energy, its funding must be targeted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the future of the common agricultural policy. thanks to the negotiations and the vote in the agri committee, this document, although still too vague, has evolved considerably and now attempts to bring about a real reform of the cap. in particular, the maintenance of the cap budget after 2013 was a key point: we want the eu's agricultural budget to remain unchanged until 2020, so that farmers have an incentive to ensure food security and environmental protection, to create new jobs and to ensure a competitive agricultural sector. i then voted against the paragraphs on aid for gmos and for the paragraph on the withdrawal of gmos; and i supported the paragraph that opposed funding for food from cloned animals and their offspring. as regards the reform of the wine market, i am in favour of maintaining planting rights. finally, and this is a point which is particularly close to my heart, i voted for the continuation of the programme of aid to the most deprived; i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this programme, which is a strong symbol of solidarity between the citizens of the eu, and i hope that the funds allocated to this programme will be maintained.
in writing. i believe that this report is a definite step forward for a strong and sustainable cap, which is why i voted in favour of it. our message is clear and centred on three priorities: to provide food access for all european citizens; to encourage farmers to change their working methods by focusing on biodiversity issues; to manage water and soil pollution problems; and to recover waste; finally, we must defend the employment of farmers while limiting the impact on the territories. all this requires a better distribution of direct aid, a different regulation of markets and a priority which must be given to sustainable development. i am advocating a fairer cap here, so that it can provide support to the people and sectors that need it most.
in writing. i supported my colleague albert dess' report on the future of the cap after 2013. the european parliament has once again shown its determination to maintain a strong and ambitious cap with a high level of funding. the cap is designed to support our farmers' vocation and to meet the great challenges of producing food to feed our 500 million citizens and contributing to feeding the rest of the world. since the last cap reforms, the issues have changed: increasing global food demand, internationalisation of agricultural trade and price volatility, climate change, energy crisis, the scarcity of available natural resources or questions from our citizens about the role and purpose of the cap... these are all issues that must be part of the cap after 2013 and must be taken into account in its reform. i also welcome the european parliament's willingness to help small farmers and young farmers, particularly when they are setting up. finally, it is important that the cap ensures better incomes for farmers, which have been steadily declining in recent decades, now amounting to only half the incomes of urban households.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common agricultural policy after 2013, so that the cap budget is maintained at its current level until 2020. i also want farmers to be rewarded for their work on biodiversity. we want the protection of biodiversity to be a priority for the european union, across its various areas of competence. most farmers are aware of this issue and choose environmentally friendly production methods. the contribution of agriculture to environmental protection should therefore be recognised and included in the objectives of the cap post-2013. i support the commission's proposals for an eu-funded incentive scheme to support farmers who are moving towards sustainable development.
in writing. the text proposes several interesting advances, such as the liberalisation of fossil energy, support for short supply chains, strengthening the bargaining power of producers and the establishment of a global alert system and coordinated action for agricultural stocks. unfortunately, it does not include any of these advances. it does not call into question the abolition of milk quotas or the dismantling of the mechanisms for protecting agricultural markets. i am voting against this text.
in writing. although the idea of setting up a cap on direct payments according to the size of farms seems to be a good one, i am convinced that this would simply result in the implementation of technical arrangements for farms that would exceed the authorised limit in order to continue receiving european aid. i am, however, in favour of the introduction of another system to provide more support for small farms, for example by introducing a certain degressivity of direct payments according to the size of the farms. that is the meaning of my vote on amendments nos 10, 11 and 25. i also welcome the fact that parliament is calling on the commission in this report to consider proposing the maintenance of planting rights in the wine sector, including beyond 2015. for the many wine producers in the south-west of france, this is very important, and my vote was of course in that direction. finally, on the question of the regulation of the milk market, the final text seems to me to be very balanced. i therefore support it.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is one of the oldest at community level. it must be adapted to meet new needs and new expectations, but it must not disappear. it is a policy which has proved its worth and which i am determined to support, as are many of my colleagues and citizens. this report, which i supported in plenary, shows clearly the changes in the agricultural world which are such a challenge for the future. these are demographic developments such as the ageing of the farming population or the difficulties young farmers have in establishing a farm. these are also new concerns, for example the need to combat the volatility of agricultural prices in order to ensure better food security, or the need to take account of environmental protection. the solution to all these challenges can only be found at european level. this is precisely what this report calls for: the common agricultural policy must remain a genuine community policy, but its operation must be reviewed to make it more efficient and fairer.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to use the commissioner's favourite image, here is a new element in the system of regulation and supervision which he is courageously and effectively putting in place. a new brick, there'll be another one coming up soon, with the short sales. but to seal these bricks, there must be the agreement of the council and i believe that is why we must still take advantage of the coming days to try to carry out a trilogue which will allow a decision to be taken at first reading. the epp therefore supports the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution to a future session, which will give the negotiators time to reach a good agreement. this agreement deals, as werner langen has told you, with the role and supervision of esma, who has done a remarkable job in this difficult matter. esma is a very strong element of the financial regulatory framework that has been put in place. this authority must be able to play its full role at european level, which is very important in this case. as regards the scope of application, we support the rapporteur's proposal to limit it to over-the-counter markets, over-the-counter operations; it is also important to ensure interoperability and the question of third countries. i would also remind you that the economic committee, for pragmatic reasons, considers that there is no need to impose retroactivity of the provisions, except perhaps for operations which would continue for a long period. this is a difficult and complicated procedure, but it is essential to prevent the recurrence of financial crises such as those we have experienced.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, werner langen, for the quality of the atmosphere he created in the discussions we were able to have, which resulted in a text with very broad consensus in parliament, but an ambitious and responsible text. i would also like to stress two points which were the subject of proposals made by us, the green group, and which were subsequently taken up by all the political groups which supported this text. the first concerns the harmonisation by esma of rules on competition between clearing houses at collateral level. we know that one of the great dangers of this text is to concentrate risk in clearing houses where it was previously dispersed, but to concentrate risk in clearing houses which compete with each other and which compete with each other by reducing the level of security of the system. nothing in the commission's original proposal was intended to ensure that clearing houses did not compete with each other on the level of security, one of the important criteria of which is the level of collateral. the second point i wanted to stress is that we have proposed enlargement in the text of parliament. we have exceeded the threshold set by the commission which limited the transmission of information, the reporting of information on trading, since one hundred per cent of derivatives will not be traded in clearing houses, so we have provided for all information, whether it is otc trading or trading in clearing houses, to be transmitted to the supervisor so that he has a comprehensive view of the risks. i hope that the council will be able to take account of this important development in parliament's text.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i have a comment and a request. my remark is to emphasize that, thanks to the work of mr stolojan, we were able to reach an agreement at first reading; i hope that this dossier will give the council the will to achieve results in the negotiations on the other three dossiers. and i would ask you, mr president, to give the floor to mr bodu, who has just reversed the text and was supposed to speak on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. i am making this request as coordinator of the epp group.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this report concerns short selling and the regulation of cds, these debt insurance products against default, and in particular the default of the states. this text has its origins in the greek crisis in the spring of 2010, when, following movements in the financial markets, a political request was sent to commissioner barnier and the european commission to create a european framework for short selling and speculation in sovereign debt. the commission produced this regulation in september and since then we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs adopted our own position in march and the council adopted its own position in may and since then we have been in negotiations, since we have already had five trilogues which have resulted in the formulation of a number of possible compromises. and i would like to thank, even though they are not here, the representatives of the hungarian presidency who took part in these trilogues and helped to move the matter forward. but after these four or five negotiating meetings, we, together with the shadow rapporteurs who voted for this text by a majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs - the socialist group, the epp group and the greens, which i represent - have decided to vote in plenary on this text in july, but without a legislative proposal, to send two messages. the first message is that we want to continue negotiations with the council because it has been almost a year since this text was tabled by the commission and, as in other matters, parliament wants to be responsible but ambitious. we want these texts, we want the rules to change on the financial markets and all too often we have to wait for a council which obviously takes much longer than we do to take its decisions. so we want to continue the negotiations, which means that we will not vote on the legislative proposal tomorrow. on the other hand, we also want to send three messages on the substance to reaffirm the positions adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and which will become tomorrow - by a very large majority, i think - the positions of the european parliament. the first is the role of esma. we have strengthened the role of esma in our version and you, commissioner, have repeatedly stressed the importance of this institution in ensuring the consistency of the rules of the single market for financial services. and i have to say that the position that has been adopted in the council - to have a red line which is an absolute red line for us, to create a right of veto for states on european regulatory issues concerning sovereign debts - is totally unacceptable. the second point i wanted to make is that we want a simple rule in parliament, that is, when you sell a security, whether it is a share or a bond, you must be sure you know where to find it, there must be an agreement with someone who will lend it to you. this is called the "hard lease rule", in technical terms. that is the position of parliament, and i think it is a common sense position. the last point i would like to stress, which is obviously key in the discussions we are having, is the ban on naked cds. that is a very majority position in the european parliament. we do not understand why, in financial matters, it is possible to hedge against a risk through a cds when one does not hold that risk, that is to say, one does not hold the bond of the country which issued that financial security. it's nonsense, it's an open door to speculation. in conclusion, i would say that the current debate on greece is justifying us, because part of the arguments put forward to limit greek restructuring is to say 'yes, but some have speculated. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, having listened to this debate as an unqualified citizen, i think that there must be some common sense in this matter. when crises occur, it is the citizens who directly or indirectly pay the consequences. i think that when he hears that it is absurd to sell something that you do not have, or to insure a risk that you do not have, well, here, the citizen understands that this is a mechanism that is not appropriate. i believe that today, in this complex financial legislation, we must try to find common sense so as to put the human mind back at the centre of this work, and not software configured all in the same way which means that, when the movements are aberrant, no one understands much about it. i think that parliament has taken reasonable positions and i hope that the council will take these reasonable positions.
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs regner, i have not forgotten the commitment made at the time of the debate, which mr gauzès also remembers, as do all of you, on the aifm. that is precisely why, as i said earlier, echoing the work of mr canfin, you did well to welcome each other unanimously. in the space of four and a half months, the commission, as it had promised, has prepared this text and placed it on the table of those who have to decide, the parliament which you represent and which you are, and the council, almost a year ago now, a year ago on 15 september. i would like to thank president lehne, mr schmidt, mr händel and mrs flašíková beňová for agreeing with the need to regulate cds, to increase transparency and financial stability. mr. gause was talking about the citizens. citizens are also taxpayers. i often say that they cannot afford a second crisis and, politically, they will not accept a new crisis without having learned lessons from the one that is not over and has been going on for more than three years now. we owe it to the citizens, especially those in countries whose markets are under attack, mr gauzès, and who are suffering the effects of volatility, speculation and hyper-speculation, which mr stoyanov is not the only one to denounce here. that is why the commission has proposed rules, transparency and accountability, but it is, of course, prepared to continue to work even more closely with parliament. mr ferber, whom i listened to with great attention as always, raised the question of liquidity. i wish to reiterate my wish to be cautious and realistic with you. mr schmidt, moreover, raised this point, as did mrs bǎsescu. we know how important liquidity is to the proper functioning of the debt market. that is why i have expressed reservations about a ban outright, but i am, mr ferber, always ready to discuss any progress, any additional framework that might reassure. mr goebbels was right to say that short selling can be harmful, but it can also be useful; that is why we have not hesitated to put in place a framework and rules. i agree with you, mr goebbels, that the possession of cds without exposure to the underlying risks raises delicate problems. mr kamal, moreover, referred to the sensitivity of the matter. this will be one of the subjects we will have to deal with in the trilogue. but in total, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to you and with you, we are going to create, if you wish and if the council wishes, for the first time, a european framework for the cds market, with a european authority which i do not wish to see weakened, either on this subject or on others, and i would like it to be able to use article 9 which mr giegold knows well from esma, which gives it a great deal of power. a word about naked short selling, which concerns me as much as it does you. mr klinz and mrs regner have raised this point. we are going to propose in this text - and i hope we will achieve this - a double discipline, a daily discipline, with the 'locate rule' that your rapporteur, mr canfin, has mentioned, and then a system of liability consistent with the obligation to buy in. there is the daily discipline that is mandatory for everyone and then there is the coordinated interdiction capability that we all wanted in case of emergency. finally, mr nitras, a word on the issue of publication. we have provided for this publication, this publicity, for actions beyond a certain threshold, which is precisely what the supervisors wanted and asked for, if i am not mistaken. for sovereign debt, this publicity is not automatic, but the information, the publicity, will be mandatory for the supervisors who need it. that is all i can say, mr president, to thank both the rapporteur and the speakers, and to clarify a number of points, before, i hope, you can, we can use the next few weeks to reach a dynamic agreement on this.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i just wanted to make a point to my colleague, syed kamall - since he is one of the negotiators of this text and he knows it very well, otherwise he has only to read it - about his argument that cdss are used as proxy hedging and therefore should not be banned because, if it is proxy hedging, then they are not uncovered, they are in the text. so if you could change the subject or read the text, that would be nice, because otherwise, we're arguing for nothing. (applause) i would like to thank the second argument i would like to make is that we really want to conclude this text because we have a sense of urgency. no one is saying that the cds is the cause of the greek crisis. it would be absurd to think so. on the other hand, it is clearly fuel for the fire thrown by financial operators whose only ambition is to make the crisis deeper so that they can, at some point, make money. since we are talking about cds, i would like to say that this text deals only with the purchase of cds. this raises another problem which was also raised by syed kamall, which is that operators who sell cdss, such as us banks and then hedge funds, are supposed to provide insurance against the risk of default to banks such as bnp, deutsche bank or barclays. for these banks, it's a way to take the risk off their balance sheet. but those who sell cdss, like hedge funds, are much less capitalized than banks. this tool allows the capital and therefore security requirements of the system to be brought down. since you are working on crd4, i would like you to also include the issue of the sale of cds and the obligations which concern the sellers of cds, not just the buyers, as is the case in this text.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this text is to protect private investors against fraudulent or seriously deficient practices by investment firms. this text is likely to boost confidence after a crisis in which retail investors, as you said, mr commissioner, were certainly the most vulnerable players and the first victims of this crisis. it should be understood that this provision provides for compensation as a last resort. this is not a watershed indemnity, it's a last resort indemnity. that is why our committee unanimously voted for this report, which calls for the maximum harmonisation of the rules and an increase in the ceiling to eur 100 000. as regards the specific case of ucits, the commission did not consider that there was no need to provide for investor protection measures, but that this particular product, which has an excellent reputation, deserved to be given its own rules in the context of the revisions of the ucits directive. that is why the economic affairs committee has asked your commission to carry out a study to determine the advantages and disadvantages of extending the scope of this private investor compensation directive to ucits. it is now up to the council to agree that what we are voting on at first reading - since we will also be voting on the legislative resolution - can quickly become a applicable text. i repeat, for europeans, for private investors, there is also a sense of belonging to the european union which must be expressed in equal protection for all.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, this revision of the directive on investor compensation schemes is unfortunately in line with the crisis and also with the madoff scandal which has hit some small european investors hard. it is being presented in parallel, as you have said, with the revision of the directive on bank guarantees and the introduction of an equivalent in the field of insurance. this is important to us; it is also what guided us in asking for the ceiling to be raised to 100 000. the original ceiling in the banking sector was 25 000, and it is now raised to 100 000. why should we be organizing a drop-off in investment when we want europeans to be able to diversify their savings in safe conditions, including by encouraging investment that will be useful in financing our long-term investment needs? you said that bad advice referred to mifid but that's exactly what mifid was inspired by to introduce it here because we think that here, we also need to decline this useful concept that was introduced in mifid. so we are not saying the opposite, we are asking you to draw the consequences for this text from what exists in the mifid. on the situation of ucits, as everyone has said, we do not want those who are now holders of ucits to find themselves in less favourable situations than investors outside ucits, whereas this savings product is a real added value for the european financial market. in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention to the way in which this text would also apply to local and regional authorities - we have seen in the crisis how much they could be affected - and to ask you, as the european parliament will do in its vote tomorrow, to consider under what conditions an insurance system could not be much more efficient, operational and, in some ways, useful for financing this ex ante fund. commissioner, you said that the public would not understand failure in this area. we are counting on a strong vote in this parliament tomorrow and on your pressure to get the council to unblock a situation where it clearly does not seem to be moving fast enough for us.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr carlos coelho, on his skill in negotiating, which has enabled the european parliament to achieve a number of good results. our objective, he said, was to improve the efficiency of the operational management of the data security systems of the justice and home affairs sector, for sis, vis and eurodac. i would like to stress a number of points which the socialists regard as quite positive developments. first, the guarantee that the agency's mandate will be limited to technical work which will not be able to exert any influence on the very substance of the data retained. secondly, democratic transparency in the whole process, including not only the european parliament in the selection procedure for the director, but above all giving assurance that if there were to be an extension of the mandate of the agency to other systems and a possible intention to make this system interoperable, this could only be done through the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to decide on the seat of the european agency for the protection of the environment. on this last point, i regret that the inclusion of the definition of the seat in the rules of procedure has been the subject of so much resistance on the part of the council. its unilateral statement that this decision would not create a precedent has no legal value as such. our institution has strictly adhered to the treaties, which require parliament to give its consent to the designation of the seats of the european agencies. in the light of this, i hope that the council will finally consider the european parliament as a full partner, that is to say, a co-legislator, in the same capacity as the european parliament. this form of institutional rivalry is also felt in the schengen dossier, especially with regard to the revision of the evaluation mechanism. i would like to see us moving towards substantive debates rather than legal battles. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to commend the efforts of our colleague carlos coelho on this very difficult matter which has required great technical skill, a great deal of work and knowledge of the matter. the control of our common territory and of our european borders is one of the most important challenges we face, and the technological tool is more than ever at the service of this challenge. in recent years, we have seen an unprecedented development of european databases and the exchange of personal data. what some have called the digital tsunami is certainly set to be confirmed in the coming years. the sis, the vis and eurodac are all essential instruments today to ensure the security of our european citizens. ensuring the proper operational management of these databases is therefore a major issue to which we have a responsibility to provide an effective response. this is of course a very delicate answer and carlos coelho has had to face many legal, institutional, budgetary, political and technical obstacles and has, nevertheless, reached a balanced text that satisfies all the parties concerned. the creation of this network agency seems to be the best solution for ensuring the internal security of the member states. no other institution or agency could today take on the responsibility for the proper management of these information systems. it will improve the management of existing information systems, provide better synergy between these databases and also integrate instruments to be adopted in the future. one of the most sensitive questions raised in this case was the location of the agency's headquarters: where should it be located? estonia and france are the only two countries that have applied to host it. france already hosts the schengen information system in strasbourg, which it has been managing and administering since 1995; it therefore has full technical control over it. following the conclusions of the european council in december 2003, which gave priority to the new member states, estonia also wanted to host the seat of this future agency. i think the compromise reached is very good: a sort of division of tasks - and i will conclude, madam president - has been achieved by moving the headquarters of the agency to tallinn, where the tasks of governance, strategy and programme design will be carried out. the development and operation of the systems will take place in strasbourg. the cost-effectiveness ratio is very well balanced, and this compromise solution does not in any way call into question the centralized management of it systems.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, how can the fight against terrorism and crime be reconciled with the protection of personal data? since september 11, 2001, we have been increasing security legislation and data collection, on the grounds that modern technology should make it possible to achieve a zero level of insecurity by monitoring more and more of our citizens. however, many studies now show the harmful effects of such legislation. even your legal service, commissioner, and the european data controller recognize them, but do nothing about them. we're just screwing over and over and over and over. you say that the results are there, but i remain perplexed and i would like to quote here the words of a us senator urging his government to stand firm. "since the agreement with the european union", he said, "at least two terrorists have been arrested". how many thousands of people are on the books for two terrorists? couldn't they have been arrested by other means? yes, of course, especially since these two people were arrested after making many trips by plane between their country and the united states. and one of them hasn't even been arrested in the united states. so why are the numbers of people affected increasing? why is the retention period increased to 15 years? why is so much data, including banking data, being transmitted without any guarantee of its use for profiling and transmission to third countries, and without any guarantee of legal recourse for our citizens? i must say, commissioner, that i was not convinced by your answers. (the president cut the speaker off) i remain on my hunger and i maintain that it is not the general registration of the population that will solve the problem, but rather the allocation of resources, and in particular human resources, to the services concerned.
mr president, i would like to express my anger and protest against the fate of the gaza freedom flotilla and the peace activists who had the courage to board the ships to protest against the repeated violation of international law by the blockade of gaza. no boats will leave. activists are being hauled into court, boats have been sabotaged. everyone condemns the blockade, but once again we give in to the pressure of israel, which has threatened to repeat its violence and killings of last year. the greek government tells us that it wanted to avoid a bloodbath. where's the law? those who support the palestinian people are insulted and even dragged before the courts. in france, nearly 400 elected officials have just been branded collaborators and compared to those who denounced the jews during the second world war because they supported the flotilla. this is unbearable! we've had enough of this double standard! in the name of what can israel continue to abuse, to murder the palestinian people? it is not because it proclaims itself a jewish state that it speaks for all the jews of the world. we see this every day in the testimonies of the people who have lived it. the holocaust was a terrible tragedy. (the president interrupts the speaker) and i am one of those who thought it could have been avoided; but that doesn't justify israel doing anything with impunity. (the president cut the speaker off) let's stop making it a separate state! in the face of the shortcomings of the political powers, citizens take peaceful initiatives, let's help them to remain peaceful and let's fight together to lift the blockade of gaza. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years after its creation, 112 is accessible in all the member states, but only 26% of europeans know about it. this is unacceptable, and that is why i have fought for parliament to send a message to the commission and the member states. i therefore welcome the vote on the report by silvana rapti, which calls for improvements in the quality of service and information on this number. better regulation is needed, and the exchange of good practice and the effective allocation of european funds must be encouraged. the automatic location of emergency calls must be accelerated and the future of 112 is guaranteed by the reliability of calls via skype and the creation of an automatic sms alert mechanism in the event of a disaster: the "112 reversed". as regards universal service, although it is only envisaged that the universal service will eventually be extended to broadband, i am particularly pleased to see the reminder that operators are obliged to respect european rules on net neutrality: it is unacceptable that their customers cannot have access to the services, content and applications of their choice on the internet. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, the transversal social clause and article 14 of the lisbon treaty bindingly guarantee social rights and, in particular, the right of access to services of general interest. it is time to prove to the citizens of europe that social europe is on the move. it is therefore necessary to give our social acquis the full place they deserve in community law, by recognising the specific nature of the sgeis in the light of the competition rules, and in the knowledge that these services have a strong local basis and rely on actors in the social economy. the report by mr de rossa is an opportunity to reaffirm the simple but powerful and weighty principles of equality and universal access to these collectively organised services, which are factors of well-being and social progress. commissioner, you said 'it is time to get down to business'. yes, it's time to get down to business; i therefore propose that in this debate you give real support to a european legislative instrument for public services of a social nature. i therefore call on you to vote in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by our group, the greens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency of the council has shown that the rotating presidency continues to play an important role in our decision-making system. the progress made in recent months is significant on several fronts: economic progress, progress on governance and the success of the first european semester. the common policies front, with measures taken in the fields of social cohesion, the common agricultural policy, food security, the internal market, the strategy for the danube region and, of course, energy policy. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but it is also a member of the european union. let me tell you, mr orbán, what the epp group's position is on most of these points. i would first like to thank the hungarian presidency, and especially the minister for european affairs, our former colleague, enikö göry, for her enormous efforts to make progress on the governance package and, in particular, to meet the demands of this parliament in favour of the community method. we have won 90 to 95 per cent of our cases. i am very sorry that, because of the attitude of some, we cannot conclude this week as planned. because, ladies and gentlemen, without economic governance, there will be no stable euro. and without a stable euro, europe's chances of winning the battle of growth, and therefore of employment and social cohesion, are close to zero. that is the conviction of the epp group. mr president-in-office of the council, i would also like to highlight the progress made since january in the common policies: cohesion policy, with the agreement in february to strengthen this instrument in the coming years; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms, in particular the implementation of the new cap, the common agricultural policy, and the agreement reached in march on the broad lines of reform, in a context of worryingly rising raw material prices and growing food security challenges. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue its work on the energy and innovation policy, which was the subject of a full meeting of the european council in early february, one month before the fukushima disaster. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not affected by the single market. on all these major issues, the hungarian presidency has made progress, despite a difficult political and economic environment. i would add an important element, namely the roma policy, on which you, mr orbán, have been able to reconcile europeans and propose concrete actions. i thank you very much for that. i would like to conclude by mentioning the progress made in the field of foreign affairs. i have already had the opportunity to welcome the progress made by croatia in recent months; it is only at this price that the twenty-seven have been able to give the green light for its accession to the timetable that president orbán has wanted from january. this accession is good news for the croatian people. it is also important for the peoples of the balkans, who must be able to count on a tangible european perspective. the presidency also focused on events in the mediterranean. europe has clearly demonstrated its moral but also practical solidarity with its neighbours to the south and has also been able to resolve the problems arising from the immigration of economic refugees to the italian coast. at the same time - and i am particularly pleased about this - the schengen area has been opened up to romania and bulgaria, not because we are doing them a favour, but because they respect the rules that apply to everyone. this shows that european solidarity is worthwhile, that the efforts made are rewarded. thank you to the hungarian presidency and courage to the polish presidency!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, i admit that sometimes i do not understand very well. you said to us here that 'europe is strong, europe can act, europe must act, europe must act as a force which must prevail in a difficult economic and political situation'. everybody clap their hands. then i read: "in 1848 we did not tolerate receiving dictates from vienna, in 1956 and 1990 we did not tolerate receiving dictates from moscow and we are not going to submit to the dictates of brussels today". who said that? what about vaclav klaus? no, viktor orbán, in march of this year, in front of his audience! and then mr barroso will ask you why europe is not welcome in their country? because there are politicians, politicians who speak in a certain way here in brussels or strasbourg, and in a different way in their own countries; and that is what is hurting europe and that is what is degrading europe, and you are one of those politicians who are degrading europe, mr viktor orbán. because it's very simple, you know. you have done a good job, and so have your officials. that's what's interesting. we are faced with a case of generalized schizophrenia and, in addition, with an incredible national cynicism, namely that in hungary everything that is done in strasbourg and brussels is being unravelled. you're going to say, "it's not important". am i right about that? thank you, that's very kind. i'm going on. "we expect from each protester that he does not want to destroy the state's goals, which serve the interests of hungary; therefore, we will always take explicit measures, within the limits of the law, against these types of protesters, etc. to protect ourselves from foreigners". who said that? i'm not going to do it. who said:we are hungarians, we have our own way of dealing with this; we can be unpleasant, if necessary, so thats the right approach, i think.jános kádár, 1985. that is your problem, mr. viktor orbán. on the one hand, you were someone who had fought for freedom in 1989 and then, all of a sudden, you came - and this is something strange and extraordinary - you came, distrustful of yourself, because you are against the dictator of brussels, but as you are president of the dictatorship of brussels, you distrust yourself. you should be much more careful with yourself, mr orbán. then you would understand the reaction of europeans today to what happened in the press in your country. two left-liberal newspapers wanted to merge their editors. the european union, mr barroso, has approved this merger, but your independent media council, which is in your hands, has refused, because they are opposition newspapers, that the publishers can merge. you have a radio that's free, it's called club radio. and then, by some chance, they take away the frequency, and by some chance, it's a catholic radio station that gets the frequency of club radio. of course, you're going to say, "well, it's just the coincidence of history, we don't know why it always falls on one side and not the other". that's the problem. and then, you said, rightly earlier that it's a... ah, you can shake your head; i know that all i say is true. but you don't care because you wanted to give us a big nationalist speech and then you'll have all the hungarians saying "at least we showed them in brussels what it's like". you fought for freedom. i didn't hear much of you when countries like egypt and tunisia were fighting for freedom. you're going slowly. but when it comes, then, to receiving, for example, china, well the great freedom fighter, we have not heard; you're going slowly. so don't always tell us stories, you know. and then, it was said earlier on what is happening in europe at the moment on the border problem and what denmark is doing. it is urgent that the presidency of the european union, the presidency of the commission, say that this, all this, must stop now! the schengen agreements are the schengen agreements, they are european law! and no country, whether hungary or denmark, has the right to unilaterally challenge european law. (applause) i would like to thank if we have to change european law, mr barroso, we have to change it in co-decision with this parliament, and we shall see where you have a majority to change schengen, mr barroso! (the president cut the speaker off) so, mr. orbán, your administrations have done a good job, but you, you are a fighter of dictatorship against dictators, the fighter is called viktor orbán and the dictator is called viktor orbán.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would first like to thank all the hungarian teams with whom we have worked a lot on economic governance. but if i may, mr president, i do not wish to discuss this with you or with the prime minister. one thing that strikes me very much is that at the time when the hungarian presidency ended, otto von habsburg died. i see in its disappearance - when we look back at what the austrian empire was at the beginning of the 20th century - a signal that we should be alerted to. our states, our structures are fragile. all those who fan the flames of nationalism as the solution for the future should look at what has happened to some empires, not to the lesser ones. even the roman empire was once swept away in turmoil. what we are trying to build together, looking to the future, seems to me to be infinitely more important than the narrow conservatism of some nationalists. i'll end with a little humor. mr prodi used to say to those who compared the brussels dictatorship to the moscow dictatorship: 'i would like you to remind me of the date of your accession to the soviet union.'
the rapporteur. - mr president, you are right, this is an important text because our citizens attach great importance to it. first of all, i would like to thank very warmly the fictitious rapporteurs who have helped me enormously in the preparation of this report. the commission proposal aims to enable member states who so wish to prohibit the cultivation of all or part of gmos on their territory. the original proposal did not set out any kind of grounds for doing so, which has given rise to a number of legal criticisms. my aim was therefore to define common rules at european level to govern the opt-out process. a little subsidiarity is necessary, but it must be framed in such a way as not to unravel the community policies which we are having such difficulty in putting in place. but it is also a question of responding to the wishes of the states, the many regions in europe and the citizens, even more numerous, who do not want the cultivation of gmos to develop on their own territory. we have therefore established three categories of grounds which could lead to a ban on the cultivation of gmos. first, a first reason on which all the groups agree: environmental reasons complementary to those assessed at european level. they are complementary because they address local or systemic aspects of the use of gmos in a given agronomic context. for example, weed resistance to pesticides used with gmos. the second category of reasons is the socioeconomic impacts. should not the cost of contamination or the measures to be taken to control it, for conventional and organic farmers, be known and taken into account? finally, there are reasons related to land use and land use planning. while fully aware of the importance of giving full effect to the decision voted by the environment council in december 2008 calling for better expertise from efsa in the field of gmos, we want to maintain centralised management but leave room for manoeuvre to the member states. this implies, of course, that efsa needs to improve its work in managing conflicts of interest within the gmo panel and in risk assessment. secondly, we propose a change in the legal basis from article 114 to article 192, to ensure that the measures taken by the individual member states are effective. the aim is not to involve the states in decisions which they would not be able to defend in court if brought by the producers of gmos. finally, we believe it is essential to make it compulsory to draw up measures on coexistence. the last thing a country wants to do is to allow the cultivation of gmos, and that is to take the necessary measures to protect the other sectors. a satisfactory text was voted by the committee on the environment, but it was necessary to reach compromise solutions to allow the vote in plenary. i very much regret the position of the epp group and its rapporteur, because we were, in fact, very close to each other and we were unable to find a compromise solution. the amendments tabled on behalf of my group - the alde group - are compromise amendments which i hope will be supported by all the groups, and even by a large part of the epp. these amendments seem to me to be the right balance between the need to respond to the wishes of the europeans and the commission and the need to maintain a centralised system without, in effect, dismantling the internal market. but the main thing is to give the states, regions and citizens who wish to do so the opportunity to act in the way they wish. we talked a lot about democracy this morning. the text proposed here is also in line with european democracy. we cannot pretend that we do not know what our fellow citizens want. we must do so with the rule of law, taking into account the needs of the economy, health and the environment, and democratic demand is a fundamental imperative for all of us in the european parliament.
mr president, i am not entirely satisfied because i feel that the european commission's proposal to leave it to the member states to decide whether or not to allow the cultivation of genetically modified plants is a failure. the european commission, it seems to me, has evaded its responsibilities by transferring them to the member states. i would have liked to see the scientific expertise of the european food safety authority on gmos strengthened and its environmental and health assessment at community level strengthened. once this stage had been reached, it might then have seemed possible to assess clearly the margin of manoeuvre of the member states through the current rules. of course, the evaluation must be made on a case-by-case basis, according to a scientific approach. how can we explain to member states that do not have the means to carry out their own evaluation that they will be deprived of a good evaluation entrusted to efsa? that is why i would have really liked to see the scientific expertise of the agency strengthened. with the criteria proposed in the report, it is conceivable that any reason could be invoked by the member state to ban a gmo crop. at that point we will be in a legal chaos, with a congestion of courts: that is not satisfactory. we are going to be in a situation of unbundling, with distortions of competition. how can we forbid the french, the germans, the spanish and all the others to produce genetically modified soybeans when we are going to continue to import it from argentina for our livestock? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, i think the rapporteur has tried to do what she could in the wrong context. the european commissioner made a proposal for renationalisation which was a complete legal failure because - we have seen it - the legal services of the parliament and the council said that this solution was against competition law and would pose major problems at international level. so to propose today to the states that they can take over this debate without a clear legal basis will create more problems than it solves. i won't be long. commissioner, what i am expecting from you today is that you will tell me very clearly whether you are committed to incorporating into european legislation the rules which are to be adopted by parliament in the context of the revision of the gmo directive.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank the parliament once again for its active and efficient handling of this proposal. let me start by reacting to some of the comments that were made during this debate. first of all, i do not share mr häusling’s assessment on the competence of efsa to decide on gmos. i believe that we have the competence, but naturally the processes need to be strengthened and are always susceptible to being strengthened. this is, as you all know, what we are doing now. on the other hand, we have to understand that efsa’s decisions are not instructions or edicts requiring member states to cultivate gmos. they are statements on safety from the health and environmental perspective. therefore we need other processes when it comes to cultivation. on these processes again, i would like to comment on what ms grossetête said, with which i totally disagree. ms grossetête said that the commission, through this proposal, is avoiding its responsibility and passing it on to member states. i would suggest that it is completely the opposite. cultivation comes at the tail end of a process which starts from the authorisation phase. at this authorisation phase, where member states have total competence to decide on whether to authorise gmos or not, member states are on record that they have never decided one way or the other, thus passing the responsibility from them to the commission. at the same time we have countries who are opposing this proposal who are today prohibiting cultivation in their own territories through safeguard clauses which are illegal under the european directive. it needs to be said that, every time the commission tries to take action against these safeguard clauses, it is always blocked by the council. i think it is time that we stopped this situation. i would also like to look at some positive elements of these proposals. i believe that having this provision implemented would put more pressure on the biotech industry to persuade consumers and their representatives about the benefits of their products, and to ensure that risks are reduced and benefits are increased. the objective of responsible innovation which we are pushing is not an economic benefit but it is a citizens’ benefit. may i remind you that the proposal addresses the long-standing demands of some member states for more subsidiarity on gmo cultivation. the swift work of parliament gave us additional impetus to work hard with the hungarian presidency towards a compromise proposal which could have been the starting point for discussions and a possible agreement. unfortunately, despite the substantive progress achieved under the hungarian presidency, it was not possible to open discussions with parliament before today’s vote. whilst many member states continue to emphasise the importance of the commission’s proposals, others keep asking for extra time and further clarifications. we must double our efforts to find the necessary common ground, thus accommodating those who want to cultivate gmos and those who may wish to restrict or prohibit cultivation. i remain committed to working with parliament and the council on the clarification and possible improvement of the proposal, to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will use my thirty seconds to thank all those who have spoken to say that the scientific elements are being taken into account in the compromise, that these are not passionate questions but the right given to the states to prohibit, because their citizens want it, the cultivation of gmos on their territory. it's nothing more than that. it's not passionate, it's scientific and it's democratic.
the rapporteur. - mr president, for the same reasons as we did in the context of the report on derivatives, i wanted to propose that the legislative proposal be postponed. we have already had four negotiating meetings with the council. we are sending a very strong political message today, but we are not voting at first reading so that we can continue the discussions and negotiations in a very operational way as from next week or in september. i therefore ask that the vote on the legislative proposal be postponed.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the danish workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the danish workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on the schengen area because i do not think it is appropriate to have a resolution which would reject in principle any extension of the criteria for establishing internal border controls and which would thus go against the conclusions of the european council and against the commission's proposals. if we limit ourselves to the criteria of 'public order and public security' that exist today, states will continue to act unilaterally by interpreting these criteria broadly in the event of strong migratory pressures, and in doing so we risk pushing for the equation of immigration and insecurity when it is necessary to react to migratory pressures. the proposed mechanism is intended to create a mechanism for the reintroduction of border controls as an exceptional last resort and within the framework of a european mechanism. today we need to strengthen the governance of the schengen area. the purpose of this initiative is precisely to be able to respond to the current crisis situation in the schengen area, linked in particular to the fact that some member states are no longer able to ensure compliance with their obligations under the schengen acquis concerning the effective control of their external border section.
in writing. as a member of the libe committee, i voted in favour of this report on the creation of an 'agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice', which will allow better management of the data collected by the three major information systems of the european union: eurodac, sis ii and vis. this legislative package will host these three data systems within a single platform to allow for better continuity in data management, better data exchanges, more synergies and beyond to improve and strengthen the eu's capacities in judicial and police cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of the creation of such an agency, which is destined to become a centre of excellence in the management of information systems. i would also like to stress the essential principles of personal data protection, which this agency and its operation must strictly respect.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 'agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice' which aims to create an 'operational agency for large-scale information systems'. eventually, this agency will be responsible for the operational management of the data collected by the 3 major information systems within the european union (the vis system, the sis ii system and the eurodac system). it will also have to respect the conditions and procedures for data exchange between eu countries and play the role of 'facilitator'. the creation of such an agency is necessary because it allows all this data to be centralised in a single database and therefore facilitates cooperation between the judicial and police authorities of the member states.
in writing. the eu's ultra-peripheral regions (urs), including guadeloupe, martinique, french guiana and réunion, suffer from specific handicaps (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market, a poorly developed export activity, etc.), which justify specific aid measures. the grant de mer, a french tax on imports of products into these overseas regions, promotes a certain rebalancing on these markets between local and imported products. it is therefore absolutely necessary. i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the adaptation of these rules to the specific case of french guiana, as requested by the french authorities and the european commission.
in writing. the granting of a sea is relevant for more than one reason. it promotes local production, as opposed to imports. this is why it favours short circuits over long circuits. it protects local employment and allocates the necessary resources to local authorities. as elie hoarau rightly points out, the granting of sea rights must be sustained if local authorities are to have a stable income.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague elie hoarau, mep for the communist party of réunion, on his report on products eligible for an exemption or reduction in the allocation of seaborne trade, which was adopted by the european parliament by a very large majority (652 votes in favour, 15 against and 4 abstentions). the report recognises the particular difficulties of the outermost regions: insularity, remoteness from major markets, small size and economic dependence on a small number of products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the report goes further, however, and asks the commission to consider extending these exemptions beyond 2014 so that the granting of the sea continues to promote the competitiveness of local production, employment and investment policies in the french overseas departments. the vote on this report shows once again that, although in the european parliament majorities are fixed on a number of issues, progress is also possible.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report, which aims to assess recent developments relating to the basic concept of universal service as enshrined in the universal service directive. it explores the possibility of extending universal access to broadband and stresses the need for coordinated approaches and adequate funding, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable populations and consumers with disabilities. this report also focuses on the single european emergency number 112, in particular on the visibility of this number and the awareness raising of citizens. it stresses the need to improve the efficiency of emergency lines to protect public health and ensure civil protection, to encourage improved handling of calls and to assess the quality of assistance from call to action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which shows a europe at the service of its citizens, and especially of those who have the least. the report by my colleague sylvana rapti makes useful recommendations for improving the universal service and the use of the european emergency number 112. i was particularly pleased to see a request to the european commission to provide more financial support to local projects and communities working to facilitate digital access, and in particular free internet access for the most disadvantaged. this is a concrete way for europe to work towards the social integration of all! as regards 112, the report highlights the low level of awareness of this number among european citizens: only 26% of them say they can spontaneously identify it as the european emergency number. a major effort by the european commission, as well as by member states, is essential to achieve the desirable 80% spontaneous identification target contained in this report.
in writing. an emergency number that can be used anywhere in the european union is an idea i believe in. the 112 number is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, whether you are in lisbon or ljubljana, and you can contact the emergency services in any situation. despite this, europeans are unaware of this number, which is one of the european union's most tangible achievements. in view of this, i voted in favour of this resolution in order to increase the visibility of 112 to european citizens, in particular by registering this number in all pharmacies and doctors' offices. the resolution also aims to make it easier to locate the caller, which is not yet fully developed. better knowledge of the citizens and adapted technology are two elements that should make 112 an indispensable tool in the lives of europeans in the years to come.
in writing. the emergency number "112" should be better known by our citizens because it saves lives. the european parliament has today wanted to strengthen the communication in the member states around this issue and i welcome this. the accident, the discomfort... in the face of the unexpected, in the face of distress, in the face of danger, good reflexes can save lives. 112 is still too little known, but it is the only emergency number in europe. everyone must have that number in their head. ambulance, fire, samu or police: 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, wherever you are in europe, and whatever your means of calling, 112 is the single number to call for help. europe on a daily basis also means knowing that millions of people may encounter a problem when travelling in a member state of the union. there is no need to memorize the emergency numbers for each country in the union. one is enough: 112!"
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague's report because it highlights the fundamental nature of universal service obligations as a safety net for social integration in the event of market failure. the region i represent includes rural and remote areas; the citizens living there must not be victims of social exclusion, but must be able to enjoy access to basic telecommunications services at affordable prices. in this sense, the commission must in particular give increased financial support to local projects which make it possible to open up. finally, as the summer holidays approach, it is worth stressing the existence of a single emergency number, 112 - still too little known - valid for the whole of europe, but it is still necessary to ensure that the system put in place is also accessible to the most vulnerable people, in particular the disabled. the member states have a great responsibility to ensure that this system is improved in order to protect citizens.
in writing. while the european emergency number 112 has been saving lives and better protecting citizens since 1991, it is still unknown to the majority of citizens. the report makes interesting proposals to ensure wider awareness of 112 by citizens, such as using airports and railway stations, as well as doctors' offices and pharmacies, as focal points for the dissemination of 112 information. the text also calls on the commission and the member states to intensify their efforts to increase the awareness of the number 112 among disabled people, by means of communication particularly adapted to them. this is the sense of an idea which i defended, by means of an amendment, when the draft report was being considered in the parliamentary committee, and i am glad that it has been taken up in the final text. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to facilitate citizens' access to this number in particular by considering the possibility of using textos and to improve the quality of emergency services , in particular by shortening response times and developing the geolocation of callers. that seems to me to be crucial.
in writing. it was important for me to support this report, as it stresses the importance of the number 112, the single emergency number in europe. the 112 number allows you to call emergency services, ambulances, fire brigades, samu or the police, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, wherever you are in europe and by any means of communication (mobile or fixed telephone, pay phone). while it does not replace national emergency numbers, 112 operates in parallel with them. in an emergency, having a good reflex can save lives. unfortunately, this number is still too little known. the rapti report provides an overview of the current system, including funding, call management (response time, foreign language calls, caller location, etc.), and the quality of access to the service for vulnerable or disabled people. the 112 is one of those initiatives which show that europe can be extremely useful and simplify the lives of its citizens. we must develop it and encourage it.
in writing. the european commission published a monitoring report on the retail and distribution market last july. the aim was to provide an overview of the sector, analysing its economic, social and environmental performance, and then to assess where improvements could be made. our colleague, anna maria corraza bildt, has prepared a report on behalf of parliament. it calls in particular for an integrated european action plan for the sector to encourage traders and suppliers to engage in active dialogue that can develop innovative solutions, with eu support. i voted in favour of the report, in support of its general guidelines.
in writing. the rapporteur recognises in principle that it is up to the states to define their policy on the establishment of businesses. but it is a pity that the rest of the report is going in exactly the opposite direction, and in the direction of the recommendations made by brussels to france in the context of the european semester: there would not be enough competition in the sector, and any regulation of the establishment of large-scale distribution would be an obstacle to that competition... strangely, the oligopolistic organization of purchasing centres, the abuse of a dominant position, and certain particularly objectionable commercial practices do not seem to call for a reaction. and as far as the correction of asymmetrical and unequal relations between the various actors in the distribution chain, from production to retail, is concerned, we rely on dialogue between the actors, which is to show a certain spirit of fair play. competition therefore, brussels version with the consequences that we all suffer: farmers or smes strangled by too low prices, consumers harmed by too high prices, and in the middle, many intermediaries who are doing better because their margins, often unjustified, are enormous. i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs anna-maria corazza-bildt, on retail trade. it is important to coordinate the different policies that influence this sector, a real engine of growth in the union, in order to achieve its full potential. while many shopping centres are expanding, the number of convenience stores is decreasing, which requires us to take a more holistic approach to facilitate access to commerce at all levels. in the amendments i tabled, which were incorporated into the report we voted on today, i wanted to emphasize the social, cultural and environmental role played by local businesses. i also support the overall approach of our rapporteur, which aims to promote dialogue between the various players in the retail trade. i think, however, that the legislator must take responsibility if necessary. this is particularly the case with regard to unfair practices which may be taking place in this sector, for which it is important to strengthen the legal mechanisms enabling smes to assert their rights, as they often have minimal bargaining power vis-à-vis large purchasing centres.
in writing. i welcome the fact that parliament is stressing the need to ensure that prices are more transparent and comparable for european consumers and to this end, to improve active cooperation between national statistical agencies on the exchange of comparable data. i had amended the text in committee to that effect. the text also stresses that the freedom of choice of the consumer must be preserved, and that particular attention must be paid to local businesses, which play a role in ensuring that goods and services are accessible to all and in preserving employment, particularly in the most remote regions. the report also rightly recalls the need to strengthen online commerce and consumer confidence, for example by improving internet access in regions of the union that need it and the security of online payments. finally, the text proposes the development of a comprehensive european action plan for retail trade, drawn up by the commission in consultation with the retail sector, and i welcome this european action plan. for all these reasons, i supported this excellent report.
in writing. this technical title and the appearance of nothingness, through the updating of annexes, hides a key issue: that of equipping our national authorities responsible for ensuring the application of consumer protection legislation with increased means to detect, in an efficient manner, infringements which affect the collective interests of consumers in cross-border situations, to investigate these infringements and to ensure their suppression or prohibition. the aim is therefore to organise an effective and efficient fight at european level against dishonest economic operators and to prevent certain unscrupulous sellers and buyers from evading the legislation to the competitive detriment of law-abiding sellers and buyers. in this report, to which i contributed and which i supported, we finally ask the commission to examine in depth the functioning of the so-called 'cpc' network (this network of european public authorities responsible for ensuring the application of consumer protection legislation on the ground) and also, after conducting a wide consultation, to present us, as soon as possible and no later than the end of 2014, a report accompanied, if necessary, by a legislative proposal.
in writing. this draft regulation concerns otc derivatives. these are financial products whose value is derived from another asset and which are traded directly between two parties without any intermediary. in september 2009, g20 leaders agreed that otc derivatives should be better regulated. the commission has therefore tabled this proposal for a regulation in order to act swiftly. the report drawn up by my colleague, mr werner langen, and the amendments adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs provide us with a good basis for negotiations with the council. i therefore supported them in order to allow this negotiation to move forward.
in writing. this report proposes to grant a european passport to derived products. the european commission and esma will be in charge. they will be able to ensure that these toxic financial products compete on equal terms. the management of the risks taken by financial institutions will be entrusted to private firms. these offices will be entitled to the ecb's liquidity, which is denied to indebted member states. it's a shame, you know. i vote against it.
in writing. the 2008 european financial conglomerates directive (ficod) provides for supervision of such groups which may include banks, insurance companies, investment companies or asset management companies. the financial crisis has shown that there are shortcomings in this supervision and this proposal for a directive therefore aims to address them. this is part of the improvement in financial regulation at european level since the financial crisis. i welcome the eu's dynamism in this respect and i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive without hesitation.
in writing. the report has the merit of calling for greater transparency from financial conglomerates. unfortunately, he is asking the commission's vassal offices to take care of it. we know how transparent the commission is. i'm not going to make a claim that would merit another contractor.
in writing. short selling is when a natural or legal person sells a security that is not owned by him with the intention of buying back an identical security later. this is a common practice in most financial markets and has been regulated in many countries following the financial crisis, but in europe in a very disparate way as the eu did not have a legislative framework adapted to short selling. this proposal for a regulation is therefore intended to fill this gap. today negotiations are under way on this matter with the council, led by our rapporteur pascal canfin, whom i support, on behalf of parliament. i therefore voted in favour of this report and i hope that the negotiations with the council will be concluded quickly.
in writing. in 2008, we came very close to economic disaster. the financial sector has almost brought the real economy to the brink of collapse. after several months of severe depression and while we are still in the midst of this crisis, it is vital that we guard against the most dangerous practices and speculative behaviour that are most harmful to the economy. the cds is clearly one of these elements. germany reacted quickly, for it banned, several months ago, the practice of taking positions solely on speculative grounds. clear european rules are therefore essential.
in writing. europe must learn from the greek crisis and bring the financial and banking markets out of the dark. the use and promotion of financial products which enrich only speculators must be denounced. it is also necessary to prohibit "naked sovereign debt" cdss, i.e. the possibility of buying an insurance policy without holding a government bond (greek for example), and thus speculating on the bankruptcy of the country without being exposed to risk. this would eliminate the most speculative trades, which increase market volatility and have put greece, ireland and portugal in untenable positions. this is a strong message to the council as negotiations with the 27 will resume after the summer, with the aim of reaching an agreement in early autumn, before legislating on financial instruments.
in writing. this report has two merits. it called on the national authorities to be given the right to restrict short selling in their territory. he demands fines large enough to prevent short sellers who are unable to pay their debts from making a profit on their sales. it is therefore unfortunate that this text does not at any time refer to the harmful logic of short selling and so-called cds contracts. the poor guarantees requested by the commission are not reinforced here. and once again, all powers are given to the commission. i shall abstain on the two acceptable proposals contained in this report.
in writing. the investor compensation schemes directive 1997 allows clients who have received services from an investment company to be compensated in certain circumstances where the company is unable to return money or financial instruments held on behalf of the client. however, this directive leaves a large margin of manoeuvre to the member states. the present proposal therefore aims to improve the functioning of these compensation schemes, to clarify their scope and to take account of the financial crisis and the regulatory measures adopted by the eu in the wake of it. i support the guidelines of this report and those adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. the text proposes to raise the minimum level of investor compensation to eur 100 000 across europe. the unilateral decision to abolish the ceiling for compensation for the latter, which was never lower than 90%, is not affected. in this europe, the risks are borne by the citizens. i vote against it.
in writing. the european commission proposed to give member states the right to ban gmos on any grounds other than health or environmental grounds, which would be assessed exclusively by the european food safety authority. the european parliament, which is committed to ensuring a stronger legal basis for international trade rules, insisted that member states should be able to invoke additional environmental grounds. i think that all member states must take measures to prevent contamination of gmos in conventional or organic farming and ensure that those responsible for such incidents are held financially responsible. that is why i voted for this balanced report, which will allow, if the council succeeds in reaching a common position, those states and regions which so wish not to cultivate gmos.
in writing. the issue of cultivating genetically modified organisms (gmos) regularly arouses passion, unfortunately sometimes without sufficient reason. in my vote i asked that decisions on authorizing or prohibiting the cultivation of gmos should be taken as far as possible at european level in order not to break up the internal market and not to create distortions of competition between european farmers. indeed, if the cultivation of a specific gmo is bad for sweden, it is also bad for france! it therefore seems to me essential to strengthen the role of the european food safety authority (efsa) in order to ensure optimum food and environmental safety throughout the continent. however, i recognize that certain criteria such as public policy, which is recognised in the wto and therefore legally applicable, must be able to be used by member states to restrict or prohibit, on a case-by-case basis, the cultivation of certain gmos which pose particular difficulties in certain member states.
in writing. to say that gmos are controversial in europe is an understatement! while several member states, including france, are using their safeguard clauses to refuse certain gmos, the states have very little room for manoeuvre at the moment and, in the absence of unanimity or even a majority, decisions are regularly blocked in the council. the idea of this directive is therefore to re-introduce a degree of freedom for the member states: they will be able to restrict or ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory. we have adopted mrs le page's report by a very large majority, the result of long negotiations, which i believe is a balanced compromise. the report therefore seeks to strike a balance between the eu's authorisation system and the freedom of states to respond to their specific national or local problems. but it must be stressed that the states will not be able to do as they please either: a list of reasons has been drawn up; it will serve as a basis for justifying the restriction or prohibition of the cultivation of gmos. these include environmental, socioeconomic impacts, land use and land use planning.
in writing. whether or not gmos are grown should remain the responsibility of the member states. this is the message which parliament has just reiterated to the council and the commission. the diversity of ecosystems and agricultural practices in europe, as well as the lack of reliable data on local impacts, resistance to pesticides, the preservation of biodiversity, the risks of contamination of traditional or organic crops that can practically not be controlled are sufficient justifications for member states to legitimately prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. at a time when we are experiencing health crises in succession, it is our duty to ensure that all our citizens have a quality diet.
in writing. within the european union, the debate on whether or not to allow the cultivation of gmos has been raging for many years. with the adoption of this report by a large majority, we wanted to bring more clarity to this debate. the member states will now be able to choose what they want to do with gmos. they will be able to restrict or ban the crop more easily than they can at present. the member states will be able to invoke environmental reasons such as the preservation of biodiversity, the lack of data or resistance to pesticides. in short, i voted for this text because it provides a clearer framework for what is and is not acceptable in relation to the cultivation of gmos in the european union. we have sent a strong message to the council to translate these aspirations.
in writing. i supported the lepage report as amended, which aims to strengthen the rules at eu level so that states that do not want to use gm seeds can have clear and concrete arguments for doing so. i agree with the analysis that the commission's original proposal was rather vague, suggesting that gmos could be refused on purely ethical grounds but not on environmental or health grounds, which was not satisfactory. the aim is to send a message to the member states that they should finally take up their responsibilities in this area and to give the commission a guideline to take account of these elements in the new revised text it intends to present in 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution giving eu member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in all or part of their territory. it is a good compromise between a straightforward ban on them, which is difficult to obtain, and an authorization which would prevent states wishing to apply the precautionary principle from doing so. the text voted on tuesday therefore allows member states to be free to choose and, if they wish, to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms for reasons other than health or the environment. the european parliament has amended the commission's proposal by asking member states to strengthen measures to prevent contamination of gmos in conventional or organic farming and to ensure that those responsible for such incidents are held financially responsible.
in writing. the report has the merit of allowing member states to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory and to request labelling as 'gmo-free'. but that's not enough. i call for a european moratorium on gmos until it is proven that they are safe. the free movement of the gmo products endorsed by this text should be able to be prohibited by each member state if it so wishes.
in writing. i voted against the lepage report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the question of whether or not to allow the cultivation of gmos on national territory is of extreme importance for french and european agriculture. it must be the subject of deep scientific and environmental reflection and must not be subject to demagogic and unrealistic considerations. in my view, authorization to prohibit or not to prohibit the cultivation of gmos can only be granted following an independent expertise based solely on objective health and environmental grounds and in full respect of the precautionary principle. moreover, this decision must also be taken at community level under the aegis of the european food safety authority: the criteria must be the same for all member states in order to guarantee the conditions for healthy and balanced economic competition.
in writing. − in my work as both the latvian minister of the environment and the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the saeima, i have always advocated latvia as a country free of genetically modified organisms. this is the issue that most directly affects the health of each citizen, but there is a lack of research on the effects of gmos on human health. in my view, therefore, their use should be limited as much as possible, because if gmos are allowed to be used, for example, as seed material, there will be no return route and the soil will be contaminated. that is why today i supported the corinne lepage report, which gives the member states of the european union the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory, by voting for amendments that are in the interests of the european and latvian people and that have also been advocated by greenpeace and friends of the earth in latvia.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs lepage's report and therefore of the possibility for member states to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory through new legal provisions. this report responds to the demand of a large majority of european citizens who are very suspicious of or opposed to gmos and their use in food. the risks to biodiversity, the diversity of cultivation methods, the economic impact on conventional and organic farming and the low number of studies on the environmental and health impacts of gmos require that member states have such a legal framework to prohibit such cultivation. the vote is a clear signal to the council and the commission to finally improve the guidelines governing the evaluation of gmos in line with the conclusions of the council of december 2008 under the french presidency of the union. it is now up to the commission and the council to take up their responsibilities on gmos and to verify that member states, such as france, will actually support this necessary development of community legislation. the problem of the wto and the need to take environmental and social issues into account at this level will remain unresolved.
in writing. the debate before this vote showed that the european parliament is divided on the conformity of the text of the future hungarian constitution, adopted on 18 april 2011 by the national assembly of the republic of hungary and due to enter into force on 1 january 2012, with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. the venice commission, the council of europe's advisory body on constitutional matters, has itself made a number of recommendations to ensure that the fundamental principles common to europeans are respected. i personally regretted the wording of various passages in this very conservative constitution, including the prohibition of the right to abortion. however, since the control of national constitutions is not explicitly a prerogative of the european parliament, i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. hungary is a great european country because of its history and its major role in the difficult period after the second world war. indeed, his contribution to the european idea, the fruit of this long experience, is invaluable. we have therefore been reading the amendments to the hungarian constitution with a great deal of misunderstanding. these relate to fundamental and essential acquis for the institutional balance of the country. freedom of the press, goodwill between peoples, the rights of minorities: these are the pillars of the european construction. the political leaders in budapest must understand the importance for all of us of working together towards these gains which make democratic expression open and guarantee our freedom. it's the future we have to look to. we have to move forward. with this vote, the european parliament sends a clear signal of support to the hungarian people and sends a message to european politicians to discuss these issues together.
in writing. while the vote on this constitution is at least unquestionable, it seems reasonable to me to ask whether it is really democratic. a constitution is supposed to be a founding text, setting out the rules and values common to an entire national community, beyond partisan issues. i have therefore supported this resolution, to remind the house of the principles of the resolution. the exclusive use of christian religious references, the attack on homosexuality, the questioning of abortion, the unstable nationalism, etc.: the terms of this new constitution are particularly worrying. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, and of the charter of fundamental rights in particular, certainly has a role to play, once the cardinal laws have been adopted, in ensuring that the community acquis is fully respected and in requesting that it be amended where necessary. finally, i would like to emphasize that i do not associate the hungarian people with this hungarian presidency, which is ending its term with a half-baked record, stained by scandals, whether it be the adoption of a liberticidal law on the media, an anti-abortion campaign financed with european funds and a constitution with ultraconservative overtones, but which remains deeply in solidarity with it.
in writing. i did not support the resolution tabled by the left against the hungarian constitution out of solidarity with my political family, because it is not the competence of the european union to control the drafting of a national constitution. i would like to express my concern, however, following the publication of the latest comments of the venice commission (the council of europe's advisory body on constitutional matters). many aspects of this text have been criticized by this panel of experts, and particularly on ethical issues that are very important to me. the protection of embryonic and fetal life from the moment of conception, the complete abolition of the death penalty, life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, freedom of the press and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation are among the issues of particular concern. i therefore call on the hungarian electors to be vigilant and to assume their responsibility as elected representatives.
in writing. this resolution expresses what the epp, s&d and alde groups expect from the commission in 2012. the commission's request to respect the general interests of the member states and citizens and their competence in the field of wages and pensions can be accepted. the rest is not good. europe 2020 strategy, the energy market, strengthening military capabilities in the service of nato, combating protectionism by third countries and the establishment of the single transatlantic market by 2015 - all is almost done! europe is sick of this majority. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which represented an ambitious compromise on climate objectives. i regret the intransigence of the ecologists and socialists who ended up voting against their own resolution, believing that it did not go far enough.
in writing. the idea was ambitious: to go beyond the 20% reduction target in greenhouse gas emissions! raise the european union's stated commitment to leadership in the field of climate change and sustainable development. the effort was commendable and necessary. the eickhout report called on the commission to make proposals to move towards a 30% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020. but some of our colleagues in the european parliament decided otherwise: by refusing to commit themselves to the 30% reduction, they led a majority of us to reject the report in the final vote. i regret that, especially since we are already at a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990 levels and are therefore on the way to reaching 20%. we must be more ambitious than that! the votes have shown that a majority of parliament is in favour of a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, but that is not enough!
in writing. the text acknowledges the inefficiency of the carbon market, but does not draw any conclusions from it. worse, it welcomes the construction of new nuclear power plants. however, it compensates for these serious shortcomings by advocating a binding commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% by 2020. it also wants to make the 'polluter pays' principle prevail and calls for increased efforts to increase the share of renewable energies in the european energy mix. i abstain to encourage these few steps towards an ecological transition.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of paragraph 23 in its entirety, contrary to the position of the ppe group. i believe that the european union must have an ambitious policy in terms of reducing its own internal greenhouse gas emissions, and thus set an example by deciding to go from 20% to 25% ghg reduction, and even unilaterally.
in writing. my colleagues and i voted in favour of a strong cohesion policy, well financed, better controlled in countries where financial management is sometimes flawed but also simplified in countries like france where irregularities are less frequent. above all, we have asked for more aid to be given to regions which are neither rich nor poor, i.e. those which account for between 75% and 90% of the eu's average gdp per capita. in concrete terms, a dozen french regions such as auvergne or limousin could receive millions or even tens of millions of euros of additional eu funds during the future programming period, i.e. 2014-2020. this is a great victory! it has not been easy to get aid to these areas which are not the most in need. however, this is an indispensable measure to help our regions to emerge from the crisis by financing very concrete projects which promote sustainable growth in these areas. the european commission is already supporting this idea, so we have to convince the council of the european union, that is to say the member states...
in writing. while the european commission, the committee of the regions and the parliamentary committee on regional development had already expressed their support for the creation of a new category of intermediate regions under the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, the vote on this report was a crucial new step towards this eventual creation. i voted in favour of this new category of regions and therefore call on the council to take this matter forward. the creation of a new category for regions whose gdp is between 75 and 90% of community gdp would enable them, with a constant budget, to cope better with the current challenges, particularly in terms of employment, competitiveness and social cohesion, while they are suffering the effects of the economic crisis or are experiencing structural difficulties that are holding back their development. some 50 regions would then be affected, including 11 regions in france alone. another important point in the report is the recommendation that controls and procedures be simplified in order to improve the efficiency of community funds and reduce the administrative burdens which often prevent small businesses and organisations from benefiting from these funds.
in writing. on 5 july 2011, i voted on the fifth report on cohesion and the cohesion policy strategy after 2013 to send a strong signal to the european commission on the priorities for regional policy after 2013. this fifth cycle aims to reduce the inequalities of development and wealth which persist in the union. these inequalities are glaring. my vote on this report will allow the european parliament to assert its key role in ensuring the future competitiveness of the eu. with this vote we propose to concentrate european efforts on financing border areas, which are lagging behind in the development of transeuropean networks (transport, energy, communication), whereas they are the points of articulation of the european territory. i particularly supported the creation of a 'middle-range category', i.e. a new level of funding for regions with an average gdp between 75% and 90% of european gdp, to finance social and economic projects and improve the living conditions of citizens. i therefore voted for greater convergence and solidarity between the regions of europe and for a return to economic growth.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this report. even if the report adopts the new category of intermediate regions, which is an obvious step towards a fairer distribution of the structural and cohesion funds, i did not want to vote in favour of it, because the adopted report does not mention certain essential points on which environmentalists cannot turn a blind eye: taking into account environmental and social criteria, in addition to gdp, as indicators for the allocation of funds, better taking into account climate change, future energy challenges and local development.
in writing. intermediate regions and strengthening the territorial cooperation objective: two essential elements of this report which i fully support in the context of the development of cohesion policy for the next budgetary period. i therefore voted strongly in favour of paragraph 34 on intermediate regions, which calls for the creation of a new category of regions with a gdp per capita between 75% and 90% of the community average, for greater fairness and equity in the distribution of european funds and between regions. some 50 regions would be affected, including 11 french regions, including lorraine! another key point is the strengthening of the territorial cooperation objective. territorial cooperation areas are privileged areas of european cooperation and play a key role in strengthening links at local level, between partners from different member states or between citizens, united around common issues; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the last element is the necessary simplification of procedures to reduce the administrative burden which often prevents local actors from applying for structural funds, which nevertheless offer many possibilities for our territories and their future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pieper report on the cohesion policy strategy beyond 2013, a key text among the 5 reports on regional policy, which underlines the importance of regional and local investments co-financed by the union. the most important advance in this report is the creation of intermediate regions, or 'transition regions', which balance the rate of investment between regions lacking infrastructure and those affected by the economic crisis. the commission has now included the term 'transition regions' in its proposal for the financial perspective 2014-2020. i am also pleased that this cohesion policy is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but i regret that the rapporteur's reference to the 'often tense coexistence of majority and minority cultures at the subregional level' has finally been adopted. the pieper report is, in the end, an expression of european solidarity and cooperation at a time of economic crisis when the right-wing governments have only the word 'austerity' on their lips.
in writing. the vote on this report should enable france to benefit from the european structural funds for about 10 additional regions. these funds, which constitute the second expenditure of the union, were hitherto directed solely to the richest and poorest regions of the union, under the cohesion objective for the latter, and the competitiveness objective for the former. this injustice should be remedied by creating a new intermediate category allowing regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the average gdp of the union to also benefit from this financing. it is the fruit of a long battle in which the french members of the epp were in the forefront and which led us to oppose the author of the report very strongly. i voted for this text because i believe that an effective cohesion policy on the part of the union cannot ignore such a large part of its territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fifth report on the european policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion after 2013. in view of the importance and positive results of the structural funds for the regions, which enable them to support a large number of small-scale local projects, we want the fund to remain an integral part of cohesion policy. as regards future changes, i have supported in particular the creation of a new category of regions to be added to the current classification. thus, regions with a gdp per capita between 75% and 90% of the community average will constitute a new category of beneficiaries, thus avoiding a difference in treatment between regions in a similar situation.
in writing. with the vote on the 'pieper' report, parliament is becoming the bearer of a new ambition for europe's regions. because the future of our territories is being decided today. i would particularly like to stress the proposal to create a new intermediate category of regions which i supported. we have shown that regional development can be an adaptable instrument, close to the realities and socioeconomic needs of our regions. many territories are expected to benefit from this new status from 2014, when growth will most likely resume. the commission supports us in this initiative. we expect to open dialogue with the council in the coming weeks.
in writing. cohesion policy is an essential tool for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, and at the same time a real challenge for citizens, as it makes europe tangible and visible in the territories. the ongoing debate on the 'outlines' of cohesion policy after 2013 is therefore of particular importance in the context of the economic, social and institutional crisis we are experiencing. in the context of this debate, the european commission and the committee of the regions supported the creation of an intermediate category between objective 1 and objective 2 for regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the eu average. i was convinced that this would ensure equal treatment of regions with similar levels of economic development and avoid injustices linked to threshold effects, and i supported it when voting on this resolution in plenary. while this would not entail any additional expenditure, merely involving a re-allocation of current funds, several french regions - as well as spanish, belgian, british, german and italian - could thus benefit.
in writing. after long discussions, we are finally able to express a clear position on the future cohesion policy: europe needs an integrated and ambitious cohesion policy, which is simpler and more visible, which strengthens territorial cooperation and which addresses all regions in a fair way. for many months the french epp delegation has been fighting for the creation of an intermediate category for regions between 75% and 90% of community gdp. these regions, which are experiencing development difficulties without being able to benefit from additional funds, risk being left behind if they are not given special attention. a dozen french regions could be affected. we have won the support of this group in parliament today thanks to our fight. i regret, however, the rapporteur's reluctance to create multi-regional operational programmes which are good means of action at the level of territories such as mountains or rivers. finally, i welcome the enthusiasm shown by the report on territorial cooperation, which echoes my proposals for an increase in the budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of paragraph 34 of the report in its entirety because i fully support the creation of 'intermediate regions' as part of the european union's policy for the economic development of the regions. the creation of this new category covering regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the european average will ensure a better equity in the distribution of european funds. i welcome the fact that between seven and ten french regions will thus be able to benefit more from european funds for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. this report represents a major step forward in defining the objectives of the future european cohesion policy. i welcome the fact that special attention is being paid to the less favoured regions in the allocation of the structural funds. by giving priority support to the areas most in need, europe is sending a strong signal to strengthen the harmonisation of living standards across europe. this is essential if we are to avoid the development of a two-speed europe, which would mean inequality between our citizens. this solidarity policy must also allow the development of projects that will strengthen cross-border trade and territorial cohesion. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which recalls in particular the importance of european funds in financing the trans-european transport network and the motorways of the sea. as regards the implementation of this policy, i voted in favour of this report which calls for the best possible use of the regional funds available. in a sensitive budgetary context where every euro counts, it is essential to encourage synergies between the different sources of funding.
in writing. the eu's policy is to make our partner countries the agents of their own development. hence the notions of partnership, political dialogue and ownership by the partner countries of their development. the so-called "budgetary aid" formula responds to the latter type of relationship. this is the transfer of financial resources from an external funding agency to the partner country's treasury, provided that the partner country respects the agreed payment conditions. at first sight, budget support may seem like a risky undertaking. this is not the case if the necessary precautions are taken to ensure that the funds are used wisely. the fact that the imf has to give its approval to any disbursement limits, even more, the possibilities of abuse. any disbursement requires the appropriate management capacity of the recipient country, which must also have a poverty reduction strategy in place beforehand. the countries concerned are invited to promote their capacity for dialogue with their civil society and parliaments. finally, better control of public finances by recipients of budget support can have a beneficial effect on the ability of their taxation system to generate additional revenue.
in writing. i supported this report on the future of eu budget support to developing countries, which reaffirms the conditions under which this policy of solidarity with the poorest must be implemented in order to eradicate poverty. it is essential to strengthen the accountability of the countries receiving european budget support and their ownership of this aid. this is essential if we are to deal with our partners on an equal footing and ensure that the aid we provide is actually meeting the eu's objectives. all too often, the absorptive capacity of this aid is overestimated, leading to either waste or spillage. i reject the idea that eu financial aid to developing countries, which represents a significant part of the eu budget, should be granted without preconditions and without any monitoring. i therefore support the establishment of effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms along the whole financing chain. i also stress the need to involve civil society in developing countries closely in this process, because it is the people who must be the real beneficiaries of eu budget support.
in writing. the european union has a key role to play in the energy field, an area where a european approach is fully justified! the challenges are many: securing energy supplies, diversifying production methods, projects of european interest - all of this can only be done at european level! this own-initiative report is a good reminder of this and a step in the right direction. what we lack most, in the energy field as in the fight against climate change, is political will! i voted for this report and will be very attentive to the proposals that the european commission is to make in october on energy infrastructure. we will also have to monitor closely the development of the next multiannual financial framework to ensure that there is a sufficient budget to enable the development of a genuine common energy policy. european energy infrastructure projects should be financed, in particular, by european bonds, which would make it possible to increase investment and ensure complementarity between public and private partners.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is an undeniable first step towards an eu energy policy that encourages the successful interconnection of energy networks between member states, across regional borders. in order to respond to the main challenges facing the development and security of energy infrastructures at european level, the european parliament wished to adopt an own-initiative report in preparation for the legislative proposal for a new european instrument in this field. the capacity or availability of interconnection between member states is still insufficient in one third of the union. modernisation, cross-border interconnection and rapid adaptation of energy infrastructure are essential if the 2020 energy targets are to be met, in particular as regards the share of renewable energy in the energy mix of the member states. the financing of this infrastructure must be provided by market laws and the 'user pays' principle. the rapporteur, however, wanted to be realistic in identifying criteria for defining projects of 'european interest' which will be eligible for public funding, in accordance with an innovative combination of financial instruments stimulating private investment.
in writing. social services of general interest make a very significant contribution to employment they account for 9.6% of jobs in the european union economic activity and quality of life for eu citizens. until now, european legislation on these services has been partial, since it dealt only with aspects of competition law, and variable, since it is subject to different interpretations by the court of justice of the european union and the commission. it is not only necessary to provide a secure and flexible legal framework for these services, but also to approach them from an economic and political point of view. our societies have chosen to have social institutions which protect citizens from the vicissitudes of the market. since there are as many schemes for implementing these services as there are member states of the union, the report adopts a pragmatic approach which is particularly consistent with this broad subject. in defending the model of a social market economy, in which social services of general interest are essential tools, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. to be quite honest, i am somewhat disappointed by the final result on this report, which seems to me to lack clarity. the subject is important: social services of general interest (ssig) play a major role in our society and should not be neglected. it seems to me that the european approach to this issue lacks both political ambition and legal clarity. on this last point, i had drafted an opinion for the committee on economic and monetary affairs calling in particular on the european commission to clarify the state aid regime for the ssigs. i am glad that the commission has since chosen this path. on the subject of political ambition, i believe that the eu must define what it means by services of general interest and the policy it wishes to apply to them. i supported this own-initiative report because i thought it was important to send a signal to the commission, but i voted against paragraphs or amendments which i thought were confusing or inappropriate.
in writing. for rules adapted to the specific nature of social services: the european parliament, meeting in plenary, recognised the importance of social services of general interest (ssig) in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. as a vehicle for social cohesion, these services play a key role in cushioning the effects of the crisis. while they remain primarily the responsibility of the member states, they are often confronted with the rules of the internal market and in particular those on state aid. it is because these rules seem inadequate and recognise too little of the specific characteristics of these public services that we must, in a pragmatic way, work on their revision and on strengthening legal certainty. the challenge is to enable public service providers to fully fulfil their mission of general interest! the legal vacuum is filled by the court of justice, which is neither democratic nor a source of security for service providers. the vote we are taking today is a recognition that social services of general interest must be given the conditions which enable them to fulfil their mission fully. we must make accessibility, universality, quality and efficiency of these services a priority!
in writing. social services of general interest (ssigs) are a subcategory of services of general interest and make a very significant contribution in terms of employment, economic activity and purchasing power by providing aids and services that benefit the public and private market. i voted for this report because the gss are a valuable asset to the proper functioning of the european community. there is no healthy society and economy without intelligent management of social services of general interest in the member states and therefore in the european union, and without services that meet the needs of citizens and internal market actors. the report proposes to the member states a programme to reform the rules on public procurement and specific aid for the ssigs, which have become too burdensome, in order to promote the union's social objectives. the proposals will allow national and local authorities to adopt a more flexible approach to funding and thus make the ssigs and the market more competitive.
in writing. i welcome the vote on mr de rossa's report, which recalls that social services of general interest (ssigs) are at the heart of the european social model. we recall that these sgeis are for everyone and that universal access must therefore be guaranteed, particularly as regards social housing. parliament also called on the commission to propose legislation recognising universal access to basic banking services and broadband internet. finally, we ask for clarification of the criteria for distinguishing between economic and non-economic services, which would make it possible to protect social services more effectively. unfortunately, while the urgency of the economic and social situation would have required members to call for a framework legislative instrument on ssigs, as proposed by the greens/efa group in its alternative resolution, my colleagues refused to take this courageous initiative. the horizontal social clause and article 14 of the lisbon treaty guarantee social rights, including the right to access services of general interest. it is high time to prove to the european citizens that social europe is in motion and to give public services the place they deserve in european law.
in writing. the problem with the european union is that the concept of public service is completely foreign to it. there are services which are marketable and can generate profit for the industry and which should be subject to competition, preferably worldwide. potentially all sectors are candidates, although some non-profitable segments can and even should be left to the care of the states and taxpayers. what the hell! corporations are for profit, not solidarity! that's the general philosophy of this text. a few highly sensitive exceptions for the good reputation of the brussels bureaucracy have been made: financing of certain transport, but only to compensate for their public service obligations; social security, even if it is believed that private insurance would do better for their own benefit, and a few others. in this context, mr de rossa's report, although well-intentioned, seems like a desperate attempt to save the furniture. it is primarily up to the states to define public services, services not subject to competition law, according to the needs and traditions of each nation, and to decide on their organisation and financing. the commission must take note of this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to underline the essential nature of social services of general interest for our society, but also for our economy. they are the guarantors of social cohesion and of real equality between all citizens. they also ensure greater economic efficiency, because they provide services which the short-term market alone cannot provide. the specific features of the gis must therefore be recognised and therefore they should benefit from a secure legal framework, particularly in the context of austerity measures linked to the economic crisis which may put them in question. the current european texts advocate solidarity and the defence of the service to users, but these are often only words. the report also proposes to move forward, starting with the creation of a high-level multilateral working group with a mandate to identify and find solutions to the problems faced by gis providers and users. it is a step in the right direction and deserves to be welcomed.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote because the right-wing majority of the european parliament has drained some of the substance from the report of the committee on social affairs. the european parliament resolution recognises the specific features of the gis and stresses the persistent legal uncertainty concerning them, their universal nature, their stabilizing function in the face of this crisis, etc. it also called for the creation of a high-level multilateral working group to identify and address the problems faced by gis providers and users. the resolution also calls for an assessment of the liberalization of public services, including networked services, the consequences of which we are constantly measuring for our fellow citizens. the majority of the european parliament has distorted this report by dropping the demand to put an end to the policies of liberalisation of public services. it also deleted the part supporting the revision of the provisions on public procurement and the request for recognition of alternatives to public procurement for the provision of gis, including gis-ss. so this is a setback. the final text calls for us to redouble our efforts to achieve full recognition of gis.
in writing. reducing poverty is the main objective of eu development policy, as defined by the lisbon treaty. the european union is the world's largest provider of aid to poor countries. this aid is fundamental and must have the greatest possible impact! this text, which i support, calls in particular for the provision of this in a predictable manner and for the member states to keep their promises despite the economic crisis we are going through. it also called for eu-funded development projects and policies to be subject to systematic evaluation, without this leading to a purely quantitative or short-term evaluation of the results achieved, and for greater transparency in the use of aid. these two ideas seem to me to be correct, and would make it possible to optimise the aid given to the poor countries. the report also stresses the need to promote industrial and infrastructure development in a sustainable way and to develop technology transfers in order to stimulate growth and reduce poverty among the population of poor countries.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on the impact of european development policies by very close votes (sometimes by a few votes). several positive points: the use of a financial transaction tax to achieve the 0.7% gni target, including for development aid; the need to remove obstacles to development such as agricultural dumping, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade; the need to address the root causes of food price speculation and land grabbing in the area of food insecurity; the demand to end the seed monopolies; the need to tackle climate change by first reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe, by increasing the targets in member states, rather than in developing countries. with this strategy for european development policy, parliament is not using either the language of the wood or neo-colonialism; it highlights the real problems and the measures that need to be taken. it remains to be seen when the council and the commission will take account of its positions. the doubt is real.
for the greens/efa group i would like to take over, but also correct my friend guy verhofstadt. firstly, as regards own resources, it must be said that others are paying. if you introduce a financial transaction tax, it's the big financial institutions that pay for it, and it also completely changes the game for the citizens. i would like to give you an example that the former director-general of the commission, mr lamoureux, proposed to me a long time ago: to create own resources, we could levy 1% on all telephone and internet transactions in the european area, because the european area has allowed the big telephone and internet companies to make profits. if you take 1 percent of that, you get between 20, 30, 40 billion. you can calculate what this gives in own resources. so it is not just citizens who are affected, but the profits of big companies or banks, etc., are taken, because they profit from the european union. it is therefore only natural that they should pay some sort of tax to the european union. so this is a new tax that does not affect the ordinary citizen, but those who make huge profits as we see today. we have to tell the truth. secondly, mr barroso, as regards your budget, i think it is wrong to say that the european budget should not be increased. we cannot help but increase it, and mrs ashton is right when she talks about a grand plan for egypt, tunisia and, as things are going, i hope that there will also be algeria, morocco, saudi arabia, syria. so if we want a world, a more democratic planet, europe will have to invest, and it is not the states that will invest, it will be europe. every time something good happens, the member states will come to see mr barroso. you will have a successor one day, you will not always be there, but he will be your successor. as for me, i'll be retiring before you and you'll have to act too. i therefore think it is wrong to want to cut the budget today. in conclusion, mr barroso, i would like to say that between the own resources and the budget, it is obvious that the own resources must make it possible to reduce national contributions, but not completely: by one third, yes, but the other two thirds must be used to increase the budget. i do not agree that own resources should be used to reduce national contributions to 100%. so if you get to 60% of own resources, 20% - one third - should go to the states and the other two thirds to the budget, which will automatically translate into an increase in the budget of the european union. i believe that with all that we have to do for the ecological transformation, for the democratic transformation and for the actions of the european union parliament, we need a budget that exceeds the 1.05 per cent percentage you propose.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, i too welcome these proposals from the commission. in a particularly difficult financial context, the european commission has kept the commitments it had made, in particular to parliament. the proposed increase in expenditure is close to that recommended by parliament; i do not take back what our rapporteurs have said. the revenue side is making a historic step forward. parliament has been asking for this for four years, and it has been done. proposals for new own resources are now on the table. the infernal logic of the just return is finally called into question and no government can reject the concrete proposals that are made with a wave of the hand. all national contributions will be reduced; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for the first time, the debate will be opened on both the expenditure and the revenue of the european budget. it is essential that this debate be as wide as possible, as open as possible, as democratic as possible. that is why the european parliament has proposed to launch it in the context of a major european financial conference involving all the national parliaments. we are counting on the polish presidency to agree with us on the composition, timetable and mandate. the union has shown solidarity in the financial crisis; the next step is to define the terms of this european solidarity in order to prepare our common future for the deadline of 2020.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her work. ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that european consumers have on the packaging of the products they consume the information they need to make an informed choice, all the information they want, not just any and all information. i am therefore pleased with the compromise reached. mr. nuttall is gone; i don't agree with his analysis at all. i think we should welcome the compromise reached. the indications will be more legible and the information on allergens will be accessible to the public affected by these allergies. the imitations will be identified as such because it is unacceptable, for example, to deceive the consumer by selling him a cheese made from vegetable fat instead of milk. finally, i am very pleased that the country of origin of pieces of pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat is now required to be indicated on the packaging. such signs will help to inform consumers better and to combat contamination more effectively. i would, however, like us to think about all the companies which have to adapt systematically to the new regulations. this requires investment and time. i hope that we can now let them implement all these regulations and take the time to do so without changing them all the time.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working on this for three years now and, given the challenges and the enormous pressure exerted by the agri-food industry, i can only be pleased with the result. i particularly welcome the introduction of mandatory full nutrition labelling, which will enable consumers to make healthy choices. allergens will be clearly identified, including for non-prepacked foods, and the readability of the information will be ensured by a minimum font size. the compulsory indication of origin for all meat is a real advance. i hope we can extend it to dairy products and processed fish and meat. it was also essential that alcohols were not included, commissioner, because they must be subject to specific and appropriate regulation, it seems to me. we could have done even better, in particular with a clearly legible and harmonised nutrition labelling on the front. but a major step has just been taken towards educating european consumers in the ways of citizenship.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i am a little surprised that with what is happening in germany, france and other countries at the moment, with escherichia coli, we can say: 'now we have solved the problem of animal flour; we have solved the problem of the european union's food aid system'. the commission has also proposed that the use of the substance in foodstuffs be restricted to the following categories of animals: so at first i thought, "well, we have a lot of animal flour, and we could give it to all non-ruminants and herbivores, and then we could give it to omnivores or carnivores". but i can see that, even with a whole series of constraints, we will not succeed. we will not succeed: how will we control the existence of differentiated sectors? to illustrate, consider a farm where poultry and cattle live side by side. there will be flour for the poultry and then other feed for the cattle. the farmer may very well be mistaken and give what he used to give to the poultry, to the cattle; so we're not going to have any guarantees, even if we do follow-up. so i asked some scientists, and they said that, for example, the prion problem, which caused creutzfeldt-jakob disease in humans, there was still a lot of scientific uncertainty. so, as far as consumers are concerned - i know, mr dalli, that you are very sensitive to the health of consumers - we must regain their confidence. you saw what happened with escherichia coli and the cucumber story. we found out he didn't do it. i do not see how farmers can be allowed to feed pigs and poultry with animal meal at the moment. i think the solution is to say, "we don't know everything from a scientific point of view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs of other countries.
madam president, we have health crises all the time, and we have had one, unfortunately, recently with the e. coli bacteria. in this alarming context, let me express my concern - while acknowledging the quality of the work done by our fellow rapporteur, dagmar roth-behrendt - about the review of the ban on animal flour under certain conditions proposed in this report. this would therefore concern non-ruminants - as has been well explained - in particular poultry, pigs and fish. the report also notes - and i share this view - that the significant decline in bse cases in the european union must not lead to a relaxation of measures or a reduction in the strict monitoring and control mechanisms in place in the union. so why not be uncompromising about animal meal and its possible health consequences? there is a real societal concern here. the ban on feeding processed animal protein to non-ruminants, even under certain conditions, does not seem to me to be justified, nor does it seem to me to be free of health risks, in particular the risk of cross-contamination in mixed farms. we have to be careful about the way we use our money, and we have to be careful about the way we use our money. if these measures were to have an effect, meat consumption would certainly suffer because consumer confidence would be lost. so let us take a long-term view, and promote a genuine policy of developing vegetable protein production, because there is a lack of protein, but the lifting of the ban on animal flour, even under certain conditions, cannot and must not be the way forward at the present time.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "and the mountain gave birth to a mouse". if we really want the safety of our fellow citizens, then when it comes to road safety rules, it is imperative that all citizens and all businesses in the member states are equal before the law. otherwise, we shall not be talking about european union but about european disunity and each man for himself. while the basic idea is very legitimate - greater safety for our citizens, combating road deaths in europe by sanctioning, throughout europe, those who drink alcohol while driving, those who drive too fast, especially in other countries, those who believe that smoking firecrackers makes them invisible to law enforcement officials, etc., - we are now dealing with a simple exchange of data between european states - and not yet all of them - with which we cannot do much, since the very idea of sanctions is optional. you're talking about a breakthrough! you will explain to the drivers in nord-pas-de-calais that when they are flashed by an automatic radar they must assume what is only justice, but that british drivers or those of other nationalities can continue to use our motorway braces for car circuits. these british, irish and danish exceptions are unacceptable. under the scandalous principle of the country of origin, so dear to the ultra-liberals who unfortunately govern the union, it would be possible for those who commit offences to escape the rigors of the law. looking a little further, one can even imagine low-cost road transport companies registering their vehicles in these countries so that they can, with impunity, subject their employees to the worst working conditions, making them take risks, sometimes fatal to themselves and other road users. we will ask the commission and the council to explain this view to the victims and their families and to try to explain to them that they bear no responsibility. in view of the above, you will understand that the collection and use of data is anecdotal here. we must return to this subject as soon as possible to save lives, and we can count on the new polish presidency. wanting security for our fellow citizens is good; i think it's much better if you put it into practice.
mr president, at first reading i considered that the proposals of this parliament risked unnecessary persecution of motorists at european level, more to do with the tax return of radar than with the will to save lives. i fear that, in the end, nothing has really changed. certainly, especially in a country like mine, where the persecution of motorists has become a presidential sport, ending impunity for drivers of foreign-registered vehicles could appear as a measure of justice or fairness. it is true that there is less penalty for burning someone else's car than for driving one's own. it is also significant in this respect that the exchange of data is carried out via eucaris, a system designed to combat organised crime and terrorism, within the framework of the prum treaty; it's a whole symbol! in my country, foreign vehicles account for 25% of the offences detected in the automated procedures, and even 50% in the summer. the number of infringements has exploded since 2003, without taking into account the logical nature of this explosion, with the introduction and then the increase in the number of radars installed. are foreign drivers less attentive to warning signs or to changes in the limit, sometimes fanciful, without any real safety reason? they're probably flashing more often. are they more dangerous? are they accidental? that's another question. we are told that this directive is a measure to ensure equal treatment for european drivers, but the united kingdom, for example, which was responsible for nearly 90 000 infringements in france last year, is not participating, and so are two other member states. french drivers are obliged to record the amount of their fine in order to have access to a remedy. this illegal measure is rightly challenged before the european court of human rights. will it apply to foreign drivers or not? where's the equality? finally, i regret that the compromise reached with the council has removed many of the safeguards which mrs ayala sender had provided to protect individual freedoms. the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
mr president, i thank my colleague, but i am not sure that there is any risk of corruption. on the other hand, there is a clear risk of injustice and arbitrariness because, in order to retain the use of their car, people will pay the fine when, perhaps, in a police court they would have been relieved. in this sense i understand the reluctance of your country, but then it seems to me that this undermines the whole economy of the text we are discussing.
mr president, i too would like to thank our rapporteur. it is worth noting, however, that the target of halving the number of deaths each year has not been achieved and that there is still much work to be done, particularly on the reduction of cross-border crime, if we are to achieve the target we have set for 2020. today, the proportion of non-residents involved in road accidents caused by speeding or alcohol is very high for me, who come from a region in the heart of europe, at the crossroads between germany, luxembourg and belgium. this is true every day. in conclusion, i would like to make two points: firstly, we must do everything possible to harmonize sanctions throughout europe to avoid a growing feeling of impunity and injustice. it is incomprehensible that a citizen who drives drunk or crosses a red light can go unpunished simply because he is travelling outside his country of residence. secondly, we must do everything possible to harmonize blood alcohol levels and speed limits within the union and also take measures on driving under the influence of drugs. in the end, what we need is not more liberal, ultra-liberal, neoliberal or whatever ideology, but simply not less europe, but more europe!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, let us be serious about this! who in this house can believe that the first step in the fight against terrorism is the introduction of advanced security scanners? terrorism is a particularly disgusting form of war, but like all war, it is above all a sign of the dramatic failure of political action. we're not going to fight this failure with scanners or with a ban on liquids in airplanes. the fight against terrorism requires the resolution of the political causes that give rise to it. the negotiated settlement of conflicts which have opposed men for too long and which above all keep thousands, if not millions of human beings in unacceptable living conditions in the 21st century, is undeniably the best way to combat terrorism. we will be able to put an end to terrorism by the creation and international recognition of a palestinian state, by the end of north-south domination, by the end of the wars in iraq, libya and afghanistan, by helping to bring about new democracies without interventionism. but as long as there is no will to negotiate, to resolve conflicts, or as long as the parties refuse to do so, human intelligence and not technology, no matter how sophisticated, will be the best weapon against terrorism. this means, among other things, strengthening customs services, transferring airport security from private companies to the police and gendarmerie services of the member states and ensuring the social security of baggage handlers and airline and maintenance staff.
mr president, commissioner, in the face of the terrorist threat, security is for all of us a 'categorical imperative' to plagiarize the philosopher. i don't think anyone is opposed to that idea. i was, for a long time, opposed to the implementation of these scanning systems, and i must say that i have changed a lot. i was initially opposed to it because of the health problems, particularly the health problems associated with exposure to x-rays, especially for children, and, of course, as a member of the committee on civil liberties, on the grounds of dignity, respect for privacy - or invasion of privacy - and integrity. today, mr de grandes' report provides a number of guarantees on these matters because it opposes the use of x-rays, because it calls for the images to be deleted immediately after the check, because the images will be schematic and because the traveller will be able to choose not to submit to this type of check. however, commissioner, i think it is necessary that the proposal for a regulation authorising body scanners should take account of the fact that if any of these safeguards were to be called into question, many of us would be adamantly opposed to this text, and our vote tomorrow, if it is a majority, should not be seen as a blank cheque, but as a framework, a red line acceptable to parliament, on behalf of the europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr donald tusk, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble, i would like to say, mr president, that if during these six months - and i have no doubt about it - you apply the european method you described to us this morning, we will consider how to extend the polish presidency of the council of europe. (applause) i would like to thank european integration will be at the heart of the priorities of the new council presidency, to the great satisfaction of our group. this integration, and above all this community method, must be present in all the major debates of the months and years to come. i am thinking of the financial resources of europe. this is a big issue that we will discuss together for the period 2014-2020. i am also thinking of the internal market. mr tusk, you are concerned about the rise of euroscepticism in many countries. i share that concern, as does my group. euroscepticism and withdrawal from society are symptoms of a cancer in our society. you are responding to this 'every man for himself' with a leap of integration, which echoes the slogan of the epp group. europe is not the problem, but 'more europe' is the solution. your presidency will be dominated by the necessary consolidation of public accounts in the member states, the stabilisation of the euro and the opening of the debate on the financial perspective. the euro will only be stabilised if the countries in difficulty actually implement the reforms needed to put public finances on a sound footing and create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth. it is not half measures half implemented that will solve the problems of substance. if i take the case of poland, which is growing by almost 4%, and which has been able to use community funds with unusual efficiency since its accession, i see that european solidarity, combined with political will, makes it possible to build a real and solid economy. mr president-in-office of the council, you are one of the few heads of state and government in europe who are willing to discuss with national parliaments, with this parliament and with the other european institutions the question of the resources needed to make europe work. you are the only one who wants to discuss a matter which is dear to a large majority of this parliament, namely the establishment of own resources for the financing of europe's missions. we are therefore here to discuss this matter seriously and we know that it will be a difficult one. the presidency of the council believes that all our economic and social policies must be based on the europe 2020 strategy, which has already been accepted by all the member states. it is right, because the economic crisis will be overcome in the long term only if the member states understand that acting as a group of 27 is cheaper and much more productive than acting alone. solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, is not only virtuous, it is also profitable. this applies to europe's finances, as it does to the internal market. i am glad that the polish presidency has made this subject, and especially electronic services, the improvement of working conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises, the creation of a long-awaited european patent system and the internal market act, its central concerns. mr tusk, like the european parliament, you have been badly affected by the recent disagreements on the schengen question. my group supports your desire to strengthen our resources and our joint action at the external borders. in this connection, i ask the commission and the council to give a clear opinion on denmark's unilateral decision to derogate from the free movement rules. my group is very concerned. i would like to know your position, as well as that of the president of the commission. (applause) i would like to thank mr president of the commission, there are some commissioners who will not be able to take a holiday in july and august, because once again the danish borders will have to be closely monitored. i announced yesterday that we should perhaps consider introducing visas for danes to send them to europe so that they are better protected! like the european parliament, you have identified the major challenges for europe, namely food security and energy dependence. it is not possible to answer all these questions in six months. at least you will have the merit of laying them and, as i said when we met in warsaw, you will be the ones to lay the foundations, and i am sure they will be solid. i'd like to end by applauding your determination in managing your neighborhood relations. we have recently been dealing a great deal with support for our neighbours to the south, and the policies we have embarked upon on this front need to be developed. relations with eastern europe, with the balkans, but also with countries such as ukraine and belarus in particular, deserve our attention and efforts just as much. mr president-in-office, my group expects a great deal from your political will and your leadership. i would like to end by quoting a great polish man, pope john paul ii, whom you know well: 'do not be afraid, president tusk, go ahead, we are with you.
mr president, mr prime minister, i wanted to speak because we met in your house in warsaw with the delegation from the green group and we decided at that time to speak on a number of very concrete problems. it has been noted that the polish presidency has been rather lukewarm on the subject of climate and has not been inclined to make it a priority, when there will be durban at the end of the year. the european parliament has made it very clear that co2 emissions must be reduced by 25%, and even 30%. unfortunately, i do not feel that you are as committed to ecological security as you were this morning, and i appreciate that, as regards energy and food security. i think that ecological security is also fundamental and that we cannot have one without the other. i think that's the whole point. on food security, i would like your presidency to be more active. yesterday the european parliament said very clearly that countries should have the right not to grow gmos. unfortunately, while we were voting on this, you changed the law in poland on 1 july to allow gmos to enter under pressure from mr barroso. i would like you to allow this process to be activated so that countries have the right to resist, as you have done for many years. another point, now, at the end of the year, (the president interrupts the speaker) there will be the meeting of the energy ministers; i would like you to consider the requirement to have a policy for a moratorium on shale gas. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr prime minister, it goes without saying that we have thoroughly enjoyed your speech. it is a very voluntarist speech, a speech of solidarity, a speech on 'more europe' and so we expect a lot - not too much, i hope, but a lot - from your presidency in the months ahead. we expect a great deal from your presidency in at least three areas which i consider essential. the first is, of course, the debt crisis, the euro crisis and, in particular, the crisis in countries like greece. your finance minister has spoken of improving the support plans we are giving to greece by changing the philosophy a little bit, and i think, from that point of view, he is absolutely right. we must give the greeks more time. to imagine that they will return to a 3% deficit in two years is obviously unrealistic and, moreover, counterproductive. we need support plans that not only require rigor, but also seriousness. we must help them to reform their economy, we must help them to prepare for the investments of tomorrow and we must give them some time. secondly, the budget. in this fight for our own resources, i know you'll be on our side; i would like to hear more from you about the interparliamentary conference - which i consider absolutely necessary - bringing together the states, the european parliament and national parliaments. and finally, on the question of european defence, you want to move forward, you want to implement cooperation. i think you're right. it is time to improve and perhaps pool our defence objectives to be more effective. we also expect a lot from your presidency in this respect.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, i would like to congratulate you on the presentation of this very ambitious programme. you have rightly referred to external crises and the need for the security and defence of the european union, and you have done well. while the libyan crisis has unfortunately once again reminded us and illustrated the difficulties for the european union to exist as such on the international scene, we welcome the courage of the polish presidency in taking up this debate. it must be emphasized that the common security and defence policy is not a secondary option but a necessity. firstly, it is an ambition enshrined in the treaty and thus binding on the member states and the european institutions. this is also a strategic necessity. every day, in the face of all the crises and threats around us, we find that our american friends and allies cannot and will not do everything for us. finally, this is an economic imperative in a period of budgetary constraints. the cost of defence is exorbitant for many of our citizens. to preserve our defence capabilities, but also our industries, our know-how and our jobs, we must collectively rationalise defence budgets. the member states must assume their responsibilities, but the institutions of the european union - and i am thinking here of the high representative and her external action service - must also be much more at the origin of initiatives, and we are counting on the polish presidency to stimulate these initiatives.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 months of work, the cris committee is going to close its work, and yet the crisis is not over. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues and to pay tribute to the work we have been able to do together and to the confidence you have placed in me. we are concluding our work at a time when the economic governance package is stalled, when financial markets have returned to too many of their bad habits, including in terms of bonus distribution, and when member states are seeing their fate hanging in the balance with the ratings that the rating agencies will give them. this is a difficult context, and that is why we are asking you, commissioner, to launch an audit of the public debt. in this report, i believe we have fulfilled our mandate. we say we need more europe. this message may seem strange in some capitals, given that today we have the impression that capitals distrust europe precisely because it has sometimes given the impression that it has acted too little and too late. we say that we need this integration. commissioner, eight months ago, in october 2010, we proposed here a tax on financial transactions at european level. eight months later, you put it into practice. eight months ago we also proposed the creation of a 'monsieur euro' and today mr jean-claude trichet proposes a minister of finance, even though the mandate he defines for him is not what we would like. so listen to us and don't wait any longer. i would like to ask you to implement the other proposals we are making, such as the debt-sharing proposal. in the case of greece, we were told "no aid to greece", and then we helped greece. we were told "no permanent mechanism", and the mechanism is going to become permanent. so today, we say to you, "go beyond that, go deeper, and share the debt. set up a public rating agency, set up a european treasury". on the international level, we need europe, of course, to speak with one voice. we need to establish a real european economic governance. this means integrating the bretton wood institutions and the g20 into the un system; it means also fighting for fair trade, based on reciprocity, in international trade. it also means that we, as the european union, must pursue coherent policies and not, as here, adopt ambitious objectives without a framework for the europe 2020 strategy and, moreover, draw up austerity plans which prevent us from achieving what we define as our strategy for overcoming the crisis. for this reason, in this report, we propose, yes, the golden rule for educational expenditure; we are proposing to set up, finally, this european energy community which will bring the concept of solidarity to life among us. we also propose that you look at the question of corporate governance. what are you waiting for to force our corporations, which say they are socially responsible, to be accountable for their social and environmental responsibilities? in the area of economic governance, we know that we will have to go further in terms of supervision, and we invite you to look at what is an optimal allocation of capital. today you want to return to the stability of the financial markets. it is not enough, because the stability of the financial markets was the situation, supposedly, that we had before august 2007, and we have seen where it has led us. beyond stability, we also have to look at where capital goes, how it is useful, because it is not an industry. it's a service to industry. that's the paradox you have to solve. we also ask you to look at business models in the banking sector, because perhaps there is something to dig into. for all this we will need more budget, and we tell you that if we do not succeed together in a revision of the treaties which will have to be undertaken, then within the euro area everyone will have to take responsibility and go forward on the road of enhanced cooperation. we hope that we can make progress together on this path we are proposing to you, which looks like a new beginning for the european union.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, you have intervened in this debate by focusing your speech on economic governance, that is to say on the package of six directives that are currently being negotiated. the purpose of this report is to integrate this work, but it is also to go beyond it. it is also to point the way, a vision that goes beyond the very short-term discussions in which you are legitimately involved. but take the time to read this report because it outlines a majority view. this is not just the view of the socialists, the greens, the liberals or the epp group. it is a vision that has been the subject of a compromise, a majority compromise. look at what's in it and you'll take a breath of fresh air from the current situation. what is at stake today? the question is who will pay the bill for the crisis, who will pay the 20 points of public debt accumulated over three years to save the markets, the banks and europe from a very serious recession. by continuing to focus on the public finance issue, you're targeting the fireman rather than the arsonist. if the governments have spent 20 points of gdp on additional public debt, it is not for the pleasure of spending it, but because they had no other choice. by considering only the consequences and limiting yourself to a european policy focused on managing the consequences of this crisis, rather than on the causes, i think you are missing the point and you are very clearly weakening the pro-european sentiment in european public opinion. and we know that today we are threatened by this tendency and this withdrawal. the second major question that this report seeks to answer concerns the balance of power between states and markets. the euro was built, in part, to prevent markets from speculating on our currencies. that's what we saw in the '90s. we are now at the point where we have to prevent the markets from speculating on our public debt, and to do this we have two tools. the first is eurobonds; it is about pooling our debts to ensure a deep, liquid market, so that we can no longer speculate against this single market of public debt. the function of the second tool is to limit the capacity of financial markets to speculate on government debt through a number of instruments. that is the path that a majority of this parliament is prepared to propose to you. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, the peoples of europe will not be able to overcome their sufferings and difficulties until we have the courage to invent something new, to reverse the current logic. i support the proposal made by pervenche berès to carry out an audit of public finances and debts. this requires the courage to tackle head-on the question of a new distribution of wealth, and thereby increase purchasing power, maintain public social protection systems, defend and invent new public services; it's the exact opposite of what you do. we must have the courage to give the european central bank a completely new role, to restructure the debts of the states, and to ensure the repurchase of all or part of them by monetary creation, and to replace the financial stability fund with a fund for social, human and ecological development. we must have the courage to disarm the financial markets in favour of selective bank credit for employment, with public banks cooperating with each other in europe, and to tax stock market and financial speculation.
mr president, mrs berès's view is that 'if europe has failed, it is because there was not enough europe'. as in the days of communism, it was explained that if communism failed, it was because there was not enough communism. so your solution is 'more europe', that europe becomes a real state and that we end national sovereignty. and this must be done by tight control of member states' budgets, with the european semester, the suppression of any deviation from the 'economic governance' package, and the creation of a european finance minister who raises taxes and issues eurobonds. in short, the purpose of this report is not to get us out of the crisis; it is to help us to find a solution. it is an alibi for the guardianship of nations, first at european level and then, finally, at world level. the rescue of the euro serves above all this purpose and the interests of speculators, to whom you are offering an unprecedented playing field. today, greece is under european rule. tomorrow, other peoples will suffer it, with the results we know. your europe is increasingly taking its inspiration from the former soviet union, with its small oligarchy of unelected officials. you will only be able to impose your policies on the peoples of europe by putting democracy in parentheses. it is even worse to see this when we know that democracy was born in athens with solon's abolition of debt slavery which, 2600 years later, you are restoring!
mr president, i would like to thank mrs berès for the very hard work she has done with mr wolf klinz and all the other members of this committee. i believe that we need a long-term vision, and as mr engel has just very well pointed out, the supporters of the nation state - some of whom, incidentally, do not mind being paid by the european parliament to spit on europe - have nothing to offer. i'll remind them that even the roman empire is gone. but more concretely, we need that vision, and we need laws now. i would just like to bounce back on two points, since economic governance has been mentioned here by several speakers. my dear pervenche, the negotiation is not stalled, it is on course. we have a democratically elected parliament which is trying to play its part in the codecision process, for the first time in front of the council and with the help of the commission. we therefore rely very much on the polish presidency, as we know we can rely on the commission, and i want to pay tribute to all the work that olli rehn and his teams have done to find solutions. we are in the debate, not in the deadlock. there is no question of rushing into decisions on such matters. secondly, i think that from time to time we have to be aware of the work we are doing. i take two examples: both on eurobonds and on the financial transaction tax, which were mentioned by mrs berès, things are progressing, and i would like to stress that the commission has a lot of courage on both these subjects, with mr rehn being ready to commit, if we manage to reach an agreement on the governance for eurobonds, and commissioner lewandowski and the college having made the link between own resources and the financial transaction tax. we work; we do not care too much about the eurosceptics, who have nothing to offer!
i'm the reporter. - mr president, at this very late hour, i would like to say a big thank you. thank you to all my colleagues - i will not name them all, but i will mention the chairman, the coordinators, the non-existent rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this work. mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the ball is now in your court. we are making proposals to you. i am glad that you are putting into practice some of the proposals we have already made, commissioner. today i am asking you for a commitment, the first on the long list of this road map that we have defined: set up the audit of the public debt of the member states of the european union. we need it to know what to do tomorrow. i would also like to recall the objective of this report which we have drawn up together: that the victims of this crisis are not the ones who are paying for it. our aim is to restore the sovereignty of politics, the sovereignty of citizens over markets. it's called democracy! (applause) i would like to thank some people ask: should we not set up groups of sages? we even tried to do that. i say to you that the wisdom comes from those who will vote, i hope, massively, for this report and who will then bring the proposals it contains to reality.
madam president, i have already spoken on this report at first reading and yesterday in the debate. i don't want to go back on what i said. there's just one thing that strikes me about this whole thing. i was not ignorant of the imperatives of road safety, but nevertheless most of the speakers who spoke yesterday in the debate were from the left, the far left, the environmental movement, and they were suddenly discovering the virtues of repression: repression as a means of restoring order, repression as a means of ensuring compliance with the law and repression as a means of protecting victims. but most of the time we hear from the same people and the same political currents exactly the opposite: whether it is drug trafficking, whether it is urban violence, whether it is attacks on property and whether it is attacks on people. this is the case of people who have not put on their seat belts, who have possibly been flashed, as in my country, driving at 70 km/h when the speed limit was 60 km/h, and for these people the repression must be relentless; it's a paradox after all!
in writing. if there is one thing i cannot be accused of, it is of not recognizing the importance of border controls. on the contrary, it is well known that i am in favour of the full restoration of the sovereign rights of the member states to define the conditions of entry and residence on their territory and to organise compliance with these conditions. but unfortunately we are in the schengen area, and the states are supposed to ensure that their own external borders are controlled for the benefit of all. the proposal for a decision establishing a list of travel documents which may be covered by a visa is therefore not, in itself, absurd in this context. what is important, however, in terms of security and the fight against illegal immigration, is to leave it to the commission to draw up this list and to consider, if the member states had not taken a decision on the list within a short time, whether they would recognise it as valid, in the 'no consent' mode. on the contrary, it should have been assumed that such silence automatically amounted to a refusal to recognise a document as legal. this is called an implied decision of rejection, a common concept in public law. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. i abstained on this report on the development of broadband in the union which, while containing many references to competition and the liberalisation of broadband services (a sector which is already too liberalised), also contains a number of positive proposals. among these, the commitment to provide, by increasing public investment in infrastructure, the maximum number of citizens with full broadband coverage by 2013, which is essential especially for citizens in remote areas, while maintaining access quality and without excessive user charges. the proposal to ensure open access to public institutions in order to guarantee the free flow of knowledge and improve public online services, the desire to guarantee net neutrality, the use of open standards, data protection and respect for citizens' privacy, and, finally, the need to combat the digital divide with particular attention to the most vulnerable populations, such as people with disabilities, people from immigration or people with modest incomes, can also be noted. but once again, beyond words, we expect action.
in writing. while social networks have become a daily part of life for a majority of europeans, 30% have never had access to the internet. the vote by our assembly is aimed precisely at closing this digital divide: the objective is to cover the whole of europe's broadband territory by 2013. this strategy is all the more important as the internet has become a determining factor in society as a whole. the successful implementation of this plan would meet various objectives, such as social cohesion, the fight against unemployment, the right to information and the right to access culture. initially conceived as a network created for the use of the military, this tool has also become, by increasing the efficiency and economies of scale of our companies, an indispensable vehicle for economic growth. this is a competitive advantage which we must build on, as must american companies. to turn this strategy into smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we will need to make investments that are up to the challenge, put in place a legal framework to ensure the safety of internet users (fight against cybercrime, protection of private data) and pay fairly to all net actors.
in writing. in may 2009, the european commission launched an evaluation of the 1995 directive on the protection of personal data. the commission is to present a legislative proposal to amend this directive by the end of the year, without excluding the possibility of adapting other legal instruments to the new general data protection framework. the last 15 years have been marked by the internet revolution and, more generally, by the increasing use of new technologies. the resulting collection and processing of personal data is on an unprecedented scale, enhanced by the globalisation of trade. the report highlights some of the main features of the future reform: the increase in the right to information, improved data transfers, particularly in the context of judicial or police cooperation, harmonisation of the status and powers of the national authorities responsible for data protection, etc. as a strong supporter of the right to be forgotten and of the security of internet exchanges, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. access to data by european citizens, right to information on the use made of our data, explicit consent to the processing of our data, right to amend, right to delete, right to be forgotten, data lock, etc. these are the guarantees to which every citizen is entitled in the context of the protection of his personal data and which the european union must respect and, moreover, promote and protect. improvement of data transfers, harmonisation of the status and powers of national data protection authorities, securing of exchanges on the internet, protection of vulnerable persons and in particular minors, especially on the internet and networks, raising awareness of citizens and young people on data protection issues, severe european sanctions in case of misuse of data, etc. these are all clear elements, measures and rules which the european union must put in place and encourage in order to guarantee these rights to citizens. i therefore supported this report which responds to my concerns and contains a strong message for the european commission in its work to revise the 1995 directive on the protection of personal data which now needs to be updated in the face of the rise of new technologies and the globalisation of data exchanges.
in writing. i supported sending a strong message to the european commission with a view to the revision of the directive on the protection of personal data. several points are particularly important to me. firstly, it is about protecting vulnerable people, especially minors, who are known to be increasingly surfing the web, especially on social networks, where they easily share their personal data. in the face of this, we demand that young people be made aware of responsible behaviour! in addition, i strongly support the right of citizens to be able to easily delete, correct or block their data, and to be informed of any misuse or error that may be made in data protection. this seems obvious, but there are still obstacles that need to be overcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular by ensuring that the data subject is able to access the data in a secure manner.
in writing. the increased use of the internet and the development of social networks, profiling practices and 'cloud computing' are creating new challenges in the protection of personal data. i therefore support efforts to strengthen the protection of personal data and to harmonise the application of the european rules on this matter. the free movement of personal data must be accompanied by safeguards for citizens who must be able to know, free of charge, how their data can be accessed, used, rectified and deleted, enjoy a high level of protection in their online and offline activities both in the european union and in third countries, and be able to defend their rights through class actions in court. in particular, young users should be protected from the threats posed by uncontrolled use of new technologies, for example by integrating media literacy into school curricula or by imposing a high level of data protection as a default setting. the 'right to be forgotten' also seems to me to be a key concept to be developed for the protection of personal data.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on data protection because it is necessary for europe to establish clear and common rules for all member states on access to, retention of and deletion of european citizens' personal data. the current legislation (dating from 1995) needs to be updated and modernised in the face of the emergence of new information and communication technologies. i will also ensure that the commission's future legislative proposal establishes a genuine 'right to be forgotten', that is, the right under which individuals can, under certain conditions, have their data no longer collected, analysed, processed or used in any way, and that it can be deleted, particularly in the world of social networks on the internet.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european approach to data protection, as it contains many positive points: strengthening of certain rights of individuals over their data, protection of individuals irrespective of their geographical location, strengthening of the powers of national data protection authorities, appointment of data protection officers in companies, reference to the 'right to be forgotten', notion of explicit consent for data processing, expansion of the list of sensitive data, etc. however, there are still gaps, some of which are even cause for concern. this is the case with cloud computing (storage of data on platforms outside personal computers), the scope for self-regulation by companies, and agreements on the international transfer of data. those agreements should reflect the union level of protection of personal data. we know that this is not the case, particularly in the united states. i therefore regret that this report was adopted without debate in plenary when it sets out the framework for the forthcoming revision of the data protection directive. i hope that the forthcoming debates will enable us to fill these gaps.
in writing. the development of new technologies is one of the major objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and has a growing impact on the daily lives of european citizens. the importance of these tools in our personal and professional lives represents a tremendous opportunity to develop the sharing of knowledge and know-how. this must, however, be accompanied by adequate data protection so that europeans can express themselves freely, while respecting personal information. i welcome the adoption of this report, which sets out a clear legislative framework, which considers that the best use of the technologies of tomorrow must not infringe individual freedoms. making information accessible to the greatest number of people is a challenge that europe must meet. this ambitious objective must be accompanied by harmonisation and legal certainty to provide our citizens with the highest level of protection.
in writing. under current legislation, all ingredients, including allergenic substances, must be mentioned on the label of prepackaged food. the new rules will make it easier for consumers to check whether a product contains allergenic substances, as they will be clearly listed in the list of ingredients. consumers will be able to obtain the necessary information instantly. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the consumer must no longer be misled by the presentation of the product on the packaging, the description and/or the graphics. we have decided that food businesses will have three years to comply with the new rules. they will then have an additional two years, or five years in total, to apply the rules on the nutrition declaration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that european consumers have the information they need on the packaging to make an informed choice... i therefore welcome the compromise reached by the rapporteur because the labelling will be more legible and more detailed, allergenic products will be mentioned on the packaging to protect allergic audiences, imitations will be identified as such (for example, it is unacceptable to deceive the consumer by selling cheese made from vegetable fat instead of milk), etc. finally, i am very pleased that the country of origin of pork, sheep, goat and poultry parts will now be required to be indicated on the packaging. such signs will help to inform consumers better and to combat possible contamination more effectively. i would also like to reassure you that my political group has been right about the socialists' foolish idea that all our products should be categorised according to their theoretical dangers and thus receive a green, orange or red light on their packaging.
in writing. improving consumer information about what they eat every day is of crucial importance. although it was difficult to find a compromise between the political groups in parliament and with the council, i voted in favour of this report because it is moving in the right direction. by advocating clearer and more visible labelling, particularly on energy value, consumers will be better informed instantly about the products they buy. secondly, while the european food sector is made up of more than 80% small and medium-sized enterprises, these new rules will provide these smes with better legal protection while reducing bureaucracy. as the e. coli crisis has once again highlighted the importance of food safety in europe, it was therefore crucial for me to vote in favour of this report in order to strengthen consumer protection. however, i would be attentive to the proper transposition by member states and industry so that these new rules are effective and beneficial for all european consumers.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached between parliament and the council on food labelling. this regulation will make it possible to implement clearer rules for the many actors in the agri-food and catering sector and will directly benefit consumers, who will be able to make a real choice among the foodstuffs they consume on a daily basis thanks to more complete and simpler information.
in writing. i agree with the general philosophy of the report to provide consumers with better information on the food they buy, including the presence of allergenic ingredients or the indication of origin of all categories of meat. this last provision is entirely consistent with my belief that consumers should be allowed to choose products from the land as close as possible to home. this is one of their legitimate aspirations: to produce and consume locally. this also avoids the co2 emissions from long-distance transport. i'm surprised you never think about it. i have more reservations about nutritional claims, european attempts to control our plates, our behaviour and our culinary traditions. finally, i regret that the obligation to indicate the method of ritual slaughter, an amendment which was miraculously adopted in committee a few weeks ago, has become an opportunity to start thinking about the possibility of a study on the subject in a few years' time. the animal rights activists, secularists, agnostics, christians and the indifferent will therefore continue to consume meat produced in ultra-surplus in a way that they do not approve, reject or simply do not want to support. that is why i abstained on the compromise amendment.
in writing. as food-related health scandals have increased in recent years, we want to improve consumer information about what they eat on a daily basis and where their food comes from. in the age of globalisation and ever more developed trade, this report calls for a clarification of labelling. so origin, but also nutritional value of food, allergenic substances, etc. the energy value, the amount of fat, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates and other proteins will now be clearly visible on the packaging. i also voted for amendment no 61 concerning the compulsory indication of the country or place of origin for meat and poultry. this is an important step forward for consumers, since labels were often not precise enough, leaving the consumer without information. from now on, they will know exactly what is in their food and in their country of origin - a major advance in the daily lives of europeans.
in writing. the adoption of this report will enable consumers to have clearer, more readable and more complete food labelling in the future. the mandatory origin labelling for beef has been extended to fresh pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat; the european parliament has made a real step forward in this respect. in future, it will be necessary to go further to impose compulsory origin, for example for meat in processed products and for certain 'mono-ingredient' foods, without, of course, imposing excessive constraints on operators. at a time when our citizens are increasingly questioning the quality of the products they consume, europe needed to improve information and respond to consumer demands. beyond the progress on origin, the readability of labels has been improved and nutritional information will make it easier to compare different foods and make more informed choices.
in writing. enabling european citizens to make informed choices, with accurate and transparent information about the food they eat, will become a reality by the end of 2014, and these are the efforts i supported with my vote today. this seems to me to be a step in the right direction, even as obesity and overweight continue to increase, with their detrimental effects on public health. the origin of meat will be mentioned on labels, the legibility of labels will be improved, with larger characters specifying in particular the energy value, and the presence of allergenic substances will also be indicated. the european socialists fought hard on this issue, and they achieved excellent results, against a right wing which is very quick to serve the interests of the agri-food industry. this is all the more remarkable when we consider the resources that these lobbies can deploy, compared with the limited resources available to consumer associations.
in writing. i welcome the very strong majority vote on the report on consumer information on foodstuffs. with the adoption of this report, we are once again demonstrating the will of the european parliament and the member states, meeting in the council of the eu, to achieve better information for citizens on the issues that concern them on a daily basis, and this, through concrete measures. the aim of this text is to simplify and clarify the existing rules on food labelling in the european union and to extend them to new categories of food (fresh meat of pigs, poultry, sheep, goats, etc.). the introduction of the mandatory indication of the expiry date, the nutritional declaration and the energy value of the selected food is a major innovation. in addition, information on allergens will have to be highlighted on packaging and measures against misleading information will be strengthened. through the adoption of this recommendation and the subsequent regulation, we are encouraging the most transparent information possible for the consumer to facilitate informed choices.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the new food labelling rules, thanks to the new regulation on food labelling, which won my vote. this legislation significantly improves consumer information in their food choices. a standardised 'nutrition declaration' will now help them to recognise the respective qualities of the various products offered to them in the market. manufacturers will have to provide the energy value and quantities of six nutrients (lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, proteins, sugars and salts). this information should be in a minimum font size and in the same field of vision to ensure readability. the choice of location is left to the industrialists. the mandatory indication of origin for beef is now extended to pigs, sheep, goats and poultry. the commission is responsible for proposing regulations to extend this indication of origin to meat used as an ingredient when it accounts for 50% of the finished product.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on food information for consumers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers' interests. it is important that citizens have as much information as possible about what they consume to inform their choices about a balanced diet. the energy value, as well as the amount of fat, saturated fat, carbohydrates, sugar, protein, and salt, will be listed on the packaging. these elements contribute to the european strategy for health problems related to nutrition, overweight and obesity. in addition, allergenic substances will have to be clearly listed in the list of ingredients and marketing rules will be strengthened to avoid confusion about products whose composition differs from the presentation of the product on the packaging.
in writing. the report proposes, in particular, mandatory labelling indicating the place of origin of food. i am in favour of this measure. the eco-footprint of each food and its packaging should also be mandatory.
in writing. we have finally reached agreement on the new european rules on consumer information on food products in the eu. this directive will bring tangible improvements to european consumers on a daily basis, and i have therefore supported it. from now on, consumers will be able to buy more healthily and with greater awareness of the facts, thanks to the fact that labels will be fully legible, with a minimum font size and rules on clarity and contrast. in addition, for the first time, a nutrition declaration on the energy value, as well as the amounts of protein, fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar and salt will be mandatory. this nutritional information should be given per 100g/100ml, thus allowing quick and easy comparison between products. the list of ingredients should also draw attention to the possible presence of allergens, which is not negligible given the clear demand of consumers on this subject. this will also apply to unpackaged food, in particular to dishes in restaurants and canteens. finally, the consumer will be informed of the presence and precise origin of vegetable oils used in the products, such as palm oil.
in writing. at a time when our citizens are increasingly questioning the quality of the products they consume, europe needed to improve information on the contents of foodstuffs and respond to consumer demands. in addition to the progress made on origin, the readability of labels has been improved and nutritional information will make it easier to compare different foods and make more informed choices. that is why i voted in favour of the report on consumer information on foodstuffs.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on food labelling. the report shall include a visible indication on the food of the energy content, as well as the amount of fat, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt. the length of the procedure leading to this text, and the legislative and political battles that surrounded it, make it a mountain that gives birth to a mouse. the european parliament was the subject of intense lobbying at various stages of the vote on this text, particularly on the question of a green, orange and red light system, aimed at making products containing a high dose of salts, sugar or fat visible very quickly. this procedure was rejected by the european parliament at first reading. the adoption of this text today marks the final stage in this procedure, which does not deserve to be called a victory. i abstained on this text which could have gone much further in consumer information and protection.
in writing. while parliament adopted an ambitious position in 2008 to strengthen the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, the matter had been blocked in the council for more than two years. the belgian presidency has made progress in changing the legal basis for police cooperation, and i welcome this, even though the council should have been more ambitious. this is a first step which should make it possible to improve road safety by not leaving those who commit offences in a member state other than their own unpunished. i therefore voted in favour of mrs ayala sender's report and i hope that these provisions will come into force quickly.
in writing. i fully support the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the crossborder exchange of information on road safety offences. the agreement is much less ambitious than the commission's initial proposal, but it should nevertheless put an end to the impunity of certain motorists who endanger their lives and the lives of others by committing serious offences. the identity of these drivers can thus be transmitted to the authorities of the state where the offence was committed. i hope that this provision will help to reduce the number of offences and accidents, which are particularly frequent on our roads during the summer holiday season.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because too many europeans are still dying on our roads every year. it is the leading cause of death worldwide among young people aged 15 to 29. the commission's white paper on european transport policy (2001) set an admirable target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010, but since 2005 the decline has slowed. one of the problems in the union is that penalties imposed for offences committed in a member state other than the driver's country are often not enforced. this impunity undermines road safety objectives. it was therefore essential to legislate to remove this inconsistency by facilitating the enforcement of sanctions against motorists who committed the most dangerous offences outside their member state.
in writing. ending impunity and inequality of treatment between european citizens for road traffic offences in europe is the aim of this new legislation to which i have voted. it has been shown that when drivers are outside their own country, they are more likely to break traffic laws. this is very damaging in terms of road safety. despite the council's strong resistance, a balanced approach was achieved: while respecting the penalties provided for at national level, it targets eight behaviours identified as risky (speeding, alcohol driving, not wearing a seatbelt, crossing a red light, drugs, not wearing a helmet, driving on a prohibited lane and using mobile phones), some of which cause fatal accidents, which is significant. thanks to its determination, the european parliament has also obtained a strong clause for a further revision of the text to consider moving further in the future towards common road safety rules, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive to set up a system for exchanging information on traffic offences committed by nationals of one member state in the territory of another. until now, there has been no specific coordination of this exchange of information and the infringements and offences committed abroad by european motorists have been largely ignored. road violence cannot stop at the borders of its own state. dangerous behavior is outside of it. from now on, motorists will be held accountable wherever they are, and this in a systematic way. it will be the end of impunity for drivers. however, this system will only apply to the most serious offences and minor contraventions in order to ensure the full effectiveness of the new legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the crossborder application of road safety legislation. the amendment of the legal basis for police cooperation will allow for the monitoring of road safety offences such as driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, speeding, not wearing a seat belt, illegal use of mobile phones, failure to observe a red light or using prohibited or bus lanes. in practice, after a letter informing the owner of the vehicle of the offence, the penalty will be that of the country where the offence was committed. if the text is adopted unanimously by the members of the council, it shall enter into force not later than two years after its adoption.
in writing. eu drivers who allow themselves to drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs, to drive too fast, to cross red lights, to use their mobile phones or to take prohibited lanes in another member state will no longer be able to go home with a clear conscience after this report. the proposal for a directive requires the national authorities to exchange the driver's registration data. then, an information letter would be sent to the offender. finally, the possible penalty would be imposed on the offender according to the rules of the country where the offence was committed. however, this cooperation must comply with certain rules on transparency and the protection of the data exchanged so that this information is not misused for other purposes and that the user can rectify or contest it. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that the council will follow parliament's recommendations to put an end to the impunity of crossborder drivers who often poison road use in border regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the inès ayala sender report because it is an important step forward for road safety, but also for european citizenship. how can we make drivers in one country understand that they must obey the rules in their own country, when they see foreign license plates that go unpunished? it is above all about equality before the law. although i regret that three member states have refused to participate, it is a first step towards harmonization, and the objective is clearly road safety, since only serious offences can be prosecuted across borders, and not parking for example.
in writing. the fight against road fatalities is a goal shared by all european countries and it is urgent that the eu develops an adequate strategy in this area. how can we explain to the public that free movement guarantees the right to travel freely throughout the community without the infringements of the road traffic code having a cross-border application? i am therefore pleased that our parliament has convinced some of the reluctant member states. however, it is a minimum compromise that has been found at second reading and i would like to see european action that goes beyond a system of information exchange to punish drivers. i therefore naturally supported the introduction of a review clause. the safety of our roads is an imperative which cannot suffer from any economy of means or ambition. it is up to us to ensure that the improvement of road safety is constantly reinforced. i also think it is essential to link our road safety strategy with the need to improve the quality and resilience of our infrastructure. the welfare and safety of european citizens, whether they are drivers or not, is at stake.
in writing. i take advantage of the böge report on the current budgetary programming period to return to the commission's crazy proposals for the next period 2014-2020. with a budget of 1 000 billion euros, an increase of 30%, the latter is in fact doing away with the budgetary efforts it imposes on the states. it proposes to cut back on the common agricultural policy, its black sheep, while prohibiting partial renationalisation, at a time when the problems of food independence and food security are more important than ever. it promotes policies whose functioning and effectiveness are increasingly being called into question by the member states, and even by the court of auditors. this is particularly true of those which are financed by the structural funds. regional policy, with its obligation to co-finance, is an incentive to public spending. it is aimed mainly at a clientele of baronesses and at the destruction of states. finally, there is the very worrying proposal for a 2% vat rate as a new own resource to be used to feed the coffers of brussels. it is not clear whether it will be 2% of the revenue from this tax that will have to be allocated to it, or 2 additional points for its own benefit. in short, an unacceptable one.
in writing. the european parliament is fighting to assert its right to negotiate the european budget. this right should be clearly conferred on it in the treaties, as should the right of legislative initiative. but the eu does not want a european parliament. it prefers this assembly, which approves or rejects the proposals of the commission and the council. i am voting for this report to show my support for this battle, but also my rejection of a budget that serves the liberal eurocracy. i am voting to block an anti-european budget.
in writing. this resolution expresses what the epp, s&d and alde groups expect from the commission in 2012. the commission's request to respect the general interests of the member states and citizens and their competence in the field of wages and pensions can be accepted. the rest is not good. europe 2020 strategy, the energy market, strengthening military capabilities in the service of nato, combating protectionism by third countries and the establishment of the single transatlantic market by 2015 - all is almost done! europe is sick of this majority. i am voting against this text.
in writing. although a majority of meps voted in favour of a very restrictive authorisation of processed animal proteins (animal meal), this is not the case for me: i refused to allow the reintroduction of animal flours. it should be noted that scientists have made considerable progress on the question of the dangers of using animal flour and that it now seems possible for some to define the conditions for the safe use of these animal proteins. however, i felt it necessary to take the time to reflect and study, not to change the rules on animal flour again and thus to uphold the precautionary principle. that is why i voted against this reintroduction. as regards the specific case of france, i would like to recall that the french minister of agriculture has already indicated that animal meal will remain banned in france: 'as long as i am minister of agriculture, animal meal will not be reintroduced in france. i'll make a commitment. there is nothing to prevent a member state from defining a more protective rule than that defined at european level.
in writing. while animal meal is considered to be one of the direct causes of mad cow disease, which is one of the most serious health crises in europe, the european parliament today voted by a majority in favour of partially lifting the ban on animal meal in europe. in an own-initiative report without legislative value, the european parliament favours the lifting of the ban on feeding processed animal proteins to non-ruminants, under certain conditions. like the other members of the modem, i voted against this report. while bse has been virtually eliminated, the extent of the creutzfeldt-jakob disease epidemic is still unknown and there are still too many uncertainties about the health guarantees for animal flour. in addition, other economically and ecologically viable solutions exist, including the development of plant protein crops. do we want to align ourselves with practices that have proved to be dangerous in the past, or do we want to defend common sense and a european agricultural model that guarantees the safety of consumers and the preservation of their health? i therefore voted against this report to reiterate that there is no need to compromise on food and health protection.
in writing. while animal meal is considered to be one of the direct causes of mad cow disease, which is causing one of the most serious health crises in europe, parliament voted in favour of partially lifting the ban on animal meal in europe. the commission, no doubt under pressure from industry, but also the french national food council, have dared to assert that the risks are now "negligible"; they believe that a change in practice would be sufficient to reduce them. while bse has been virtually eliminated, we still do not know the extent of the creutzfeldt-jakob disease epidemic we may be facing, as the disease may take decades to manifest. there are still too many uncertainties about health guarantees. there are other economically and ecologically viable solutions. the development of plant protein crops is a more virtuous path. do we want to follow practices which have proved to be dangerous in the past, or do we want to defend common sense and a european agricultural model which guarantees consumer safety? we therefore voted against it to reaffirm that there is no compromise on food and health protection.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) because i am strongly against the lifting of the ban on animal meal for non-ruminants. although it is true that animal diseases have decreased in recent years, i think it is irresponsible to relax the measures taken by the european union to combat animal diseases now.
in writing. i voted against amendment no 7 in paragraph 1 concerning the ban on animal flours for non-ruminants, because i consider that there are very serious risks to human health.
in writing. the 1990s and 2000s were marked by the mad cow disease health scandal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of animal feedingstuffs. it's a real shame when you know the devastating effects of these flours. i therefore voted against this report because, although the epidemic has almost disappeared, there are still many unknowns. other solutions are viable and it would have been better to have preferred them, rather than resurrecting old recipes that have already done so much damage. do we want to follow practices which have proved to be dangerous in the past, or do we want to defend common sense and a european agricultural model which guarantees consumer safety? we have therefore voted against this report, together with the other members of the democratic movement, to reaffirm that there is no need to compromise on food and health protection.
in writing. the number of cases of mad cow disease (bse) and other communicable diseases such as scrapie (std) has decreased significantly in recent years, which is evidence that the measures taken by the union to eradicate these diseases have been effective. but this downward trend must not lead to a relaxation of these surveillance measures! that is why i voted against this report which calls for the lifting of the ban on animal meal under certain conditions for feeding non-ruminants and in particular poultry, pigs and fish. there is a real concern in society about this and a lifting of the ban on feeding processed animal protein to non-ruminants, even under conditions, does not seem to me justified or free of health risks such as cross-contamination in mixed farms or in slaughterhouses.
in writing. i voted against the european commission's proposal on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) which proposes to relax the ban on animal flours. for reasons of food safety, i think it is important to oppose the lifting of the ban, even under certain conditions, on animal meal for feeding non-ruminants, and in particular poultry, pigs and fish. although cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) such as creutzfeldt-jakob disease are declining in europe, the context of the e. coli crisis reminds us of the importance of maintaining a high level of animal and public health.
in writing. the european commission wants to lift the ban on feeding processed animal protein to non-ruminants, subject to conditions! the number of mad cow diseases and other diseases (such as tse) has decreased considerably, but this is due to the eradication measures adopted by the union. this reduction should not lead to a relaxation of such measures. i therefore voted against this proposal. we must have a long-term view and promote a genuine policy for the development of plant protein production. the ban on animal meal is out of the question!
in writing. the european parliament voted to lift the ban on animal meal and to allow its use for non-herbivores, i.e. poultry, fish and pigs. i voted against this authorisation. the european parliament is constantly bragging about the importance of traceability in the food sector, but it also admits that there is no guarantee at present of a clear separation of products derived from animal flour from the rest, either at the time of slaughter or transport. in this text, the european parliament is giving in to lobbying pressure, to the detriment of public health. i object to this vote. the argument put forward in this resolution that there is a protein deficit in europe seems to me to be far from justifying such a risk. we can see that, in the face of pressure from the lobbies, the majority of the european parliament is denying the precautionary principle and is not afraid to take risks for public health, with the only counterpart being a request to the commission to improve traceability.
in writing. like the french socialist delegation, i voted against the roth-berendt report on eu legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) and related controls of feed and food. how can we explain that 15 years after the mad cow crisis began, we are pretending that nothing has happened and are considering putting animal meal for ruminants back on the market, even with strict controls? the current crisis in the livestock sector, linked in particular to the rise in world cereal prices, must be solved by economic and trade regulations and by a fight against speculation, certainly not at the expense of health security!
in writing. despite our opposition for years, security scanners are now a reality. security scanners must not compromise our civil liberties and our health. their use must therefore be governed by common european rules to ensure discretion and be subject to clear and strict conditions. member states will have to use technology which is as harmless as possible to people's health and which respects privacy. the images generated should be stick figure silhouettes and the data should be destroyed immediately after the security check on the person. the european commission is expected to present new european rules this summer. parliament may reject them within three months if it wishes to do so by the comitology procedure. the european commission should not therefore regard this vote as a blank cheque, but as a warning, a red line indicating what is acceptable to parliament and the citizens of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of the report by luis de grandes pascual proposing to allow the use of body scanners in european airports provided that standards concerning the health and privacy of passengers are respected. security scanners are more effective in terms of security (detecting non-metallic objects such as plastic explosives or ceramic knives), and less intrusive to passengers, as they avoid full body searches, and do not take longer than the time required for hand luggage inspection (3-30 seconds depending on the type of scanner). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 kg.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr de grandes pascual. in the face of the 'civilization war' initiated by mr bush and the continuing terrorist risks, air safety is a real concern. but the organization of the system, and in particular the control of passengers, is the responsibility of the member states, not the commission, because it is a matter of public order and public security. it is also for each member state to decide on the use of body scanners at airports, taking due account of the health and privacy concerns raised by such use. as for the systematic call for non-discrimination, the refusal of profiling, we must remind those same members who approve of the occupation of afghanistan by western armies - which proves that they have a vague idea of where the danger may come from - that it is highly unlikely that a lutheran swede wearing explosive tennis shoes will ever be arrested on an airplane.
in writing. while remaining sceptical about the real effectiveness of the use of body scanners in the fight against terrorism, i supported this report, as it includes a ban on x-ray scanners, in order to avoid any harm to the health of passengers, especially vulnerable passengers (pregnant women, elderly, children, sick people, etc.). in addition, several elements of this report address my concerns about respect for human dignity and privacy, since passengers will be able to refuse the body scan and submit to other more conventional inspection procedures, such as the body search. in addition, only "match-maker" silhouettes should be used, images which will be destroyed immediately after the inspection and which, therefore, cannot be stored. however, the question of 'who will pay the bill' in this case remains. the cost-effectiveness of such a measure will have to be seriously considered in the course of this process, particularly in a context of economic crisis where everyone is called upon to make an effort.
in writing. while security scanners or body scanners are undoubtedly a step forward in aviation safety in that they detect prohibited objects hidden under clothing, their introduction should not be done without extreme caution. on the one hand, the health of the public must be protected, which is why i support the ban on monitoring technologies using ionising radiation. on the other hand, the dignity, privacy and intimacy of individuals must be protected. thus, allowing only matchstick figures, destroying data and having the possibility to refuse to submit to such a check are essential conditions for adding security scanners to the list of permitted inspection methods. the use of these scanners must be harmonised and subject to common protective rules ensuring respect for fundamental rights in each state that would choose to implement this system. regular updating of standards will be necessary to take account of new risks, technological advances and their possible negative impacts. in addition, i believe it is particularly important to lift the ban on the transport of liquids, aerosols and gels in 2013 and to move to a system of inspection of these substances.
in writing. i voted against this report because the use of this monitoring device, which is akin to a full body search, infringes both the privacy and intimacy of individuals. it is true that semantic precautions are taken to make the use of the body scanner at airports, the so-called 'security scanner', admissible. its use is surrounded by "guarantees" of privacy and data protection (possibility of not submitting to them and going through a means of control right of option , remote location for viewing images, limitation of data storage, etc.). as always with the use of technologies that involve data protection and privacy, questions of purpose and proportionality arise. the reduction of the terrorist threat requires the resolution of the political causes of terrorism and the strengthening of the human resources allocated to the services concerned, victims as well as others, despite the optical effects of austerity policies. the proliferation of ever more sophisticated technological means is quite illusory. it only masks, by a leap forward, the failures of the fight against terrorism and the exploitation of it for 'political' purposes.
in writing. women now make up 10% of the board members of the largest listed companies in the european union and only 3% of the chairpersons of these boards. however, i believe that women can contribute a great deal to the management of companies through a different vision and approach. the report calls on the european commission to present as soon as possible a comprehensive report on the representation of women in all forms of enterprise in the european union, as well as on the measures taken, both compulsory and non-compulsory, by the economic sector and the measures recently adopted by the member states to increase this representation. it called on the commission, if voluntary measures taken by companies and member states were not sufficient, to present by 2012 a legislative proposal including quotas to increase the representation of women on company boards to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020. i believe that other ways than quotas should be promoted, but i have supported this report in order to defend its objectives vigorously.
in writing. as my colleague rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou's excellent report has pointed out, women now represent only about 10% of the board members of the largest listed companies in the eu, and only 3% of the chairpersons of these boards. in the face of this appalling inequality, europe must act, and by force if necessary. after the european commission plans to propose legislation as early as 2012 setting targets of 30% of women in management by 2015 and 40% by 2020, it is the turn of the european parliament to vote in favour of such binding targets if companies do not voluntarily increase the proportion of women in these bodies. that is why i naturally voted for this report. however, we must also be equally active in promoting equal opportunities and reconciling work and family life for all women, regardless of their level of responsibility, qualifications and social status.
in writing. the persistence of inequalities in careers and wages between men and women, in work, qualifications and equivalent skills, is a problem. the commission has also taken into account the fact that some of their specific constraints in the reconciliation of private and family life are not taken into account. but you will not solve it by the main method proposed in this report: so-called positive discrimination and quotas. because it comes from the perverse idea that the roles of the two sexes must be interchangeable in everything, always, everywhere. because it also casts a permanent shadow of doubt on the real abilities of the one who receives it, and undermines its legitimacy. you are not condescending when you provide specific training and support for women to enable them to take up management positions. are they discriminated against, or do you consider them to be a bit weak-minded? when we add to this a desire to legislate even in the home to impose an equitable organization of family tasks, we are on the verge of absurdity. mr. laundry and mrs. pot-mum on a board of directors, where she's only allowed to be because she's a woman, that's a pathetic view of society.
in writing. the proportion of women on company boards has increased by only 0.5% per year over the last 7 years; at this rate, it will take 50 years for the composition of works councils to reach a reasonable balance of 40% for women. in the face of this reality, action is urgently needed. i therefore supported this own-initiative report which calls on the commission to take the ad hoc measures needed to initiate a new dynamic. in this context, a comprehensive review of the representation of women in enterprises in the european union is necessary. if such an analysis were to confirm that voluntary measures taken by enterprises and member states are not sufficient to reverse the current trend of overwhelming male dominance, then it would be natural to consider adequate, measurable and binding measures to increase the representation of women on company boards.
in writing. i was keen to support my colleague rodi kratsa's report on women and business management. i welcome the proposals in this report to improve the representation of women on the boards of the largest listed companies, including the request to the european commission to present a legislative proposal with quotas by 2012 to make progress on this issue. my country, france, has introduced such quotas and has already made very positive progress. i felt it was important to promote equality between women and men on boards in order to build genuine professional equality within companies. it is also about recognising women's skills and talents which they can demonstrate in running a business. above all, i think it is urgent to remedy the profound injustice of the 17% pay gap between women and men, which i believe is still an aberration. the view of women in the world of work must change: our economy cannot deprive itself of the potential for development and competitiveness that parity, diversity and professional equality represent.
in writing. in 2009, the proportion of women in the decision-making bodies of the largest listed companies was 10.9%, and women represented only 3% of the chairpersons of the boards of these companies. in view of these particularly low figures and the weak progress made, it seems to me essential that following a review of the situation regarding the representation of women in enterprises in the european union, if voluntary measures by enterprises prove insufficient, the commission proposes legislation by 2012. while some member states have taken interesting measures, the union as a whole needs stimulating rules. european legislation could set quotas of 30% of women in decision-making bodies by 2015 and 40% by 2020. the resolution of parliament which i support is also useful in that it accompanies these measures with initiatives to reconcile work and family life, to combat wage inequalities and to make work more flexible. european initiatives will promote gender parity and equality, but also support economic growth and competitiveness by fully exploiting the skills of each and every individual.
in writing. − unfortunately, in many societies there is still an unequal treatment of women and men in managerial positions. a man in a high position is perceived much more positively, his abilities and character being more appropriate. on the other hand, there are many unfounded stereotypes about women in leadership positions. women have the same knowledge and talents as men, but they face many more obstacles to reach leadership positions. statistics show that women are underrepresented in management positions in business, trade unions and politics in the eu. only 10% of the boards of the largest listed companies in the european union are women and only 3% of the chairpersons of the boards are women. moreover, the majority of enterprises (64%) have no initiatives to improve the situation. this report covers all the main issues related to women at work, from access and equal conditions in the labour market to reconciling working life with family life and personal goals. the report aims to enable competent and qualified women to take up jobs that are currently not readily available to them, and to change society's perception of women in leadership positions. the objective is to increase the participation of women in company boards to 30% by 2015 and to 40% by 2020. it is important to talk about these issues and to seriously look at how to improve the situation, which is why i have supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report adopted by parliament on women and business management. this report is based on studies by the commission and the private sector demonstrating the positive consequences of improving the representation of women in management positions in companies. if the trend continues at the present rate, it will be 50 years before the number of women on boards of directors reaches 40%. so we must act to speed up the movement. parliament therefore stressed the need to develop the provision of quality childcare services for the elderly and other dependants, in order to enable women and men to better reconcile family and working life. the member states and the commission are invited to take action to combat stereotypes and change the perception of women in the world of work, not only the one they have at first, but also the one they have of themselves. the fight against persistent wage inequalities, which are partly but only partly the result of stereotypes affecting career development, must be a priority. it remains to be seen whether these recommendations of parliament will be taken up by the member states.
in writing. this report, drawn up by parliament's temporary committee on the financial and economic crisis, is a step in the right direction. it calls for a strong european response to the crisis, based on the principles enshrined in the treaty and the fundamental charter of human rights. it is in favour of 'more europe', but a 'smarter', 'more efficient' and 'more united' europe, a europe that would operate on the basis of clearly defined and agreed objectives, to which all member states should make a clear commitment, and which should be supported by ambitious financial means. i am in favour of an ambitious european budget. i am aware of the budgetary constraints which our member states are currently facing, but i nevertheless believe that an increase in the european budget is possible and necessary, in particular through the creation of own resources.
in writing. since 2008, national governments and european officials have been focusing their efforts on the consequences of the crisis. the causes of the crisis, however, have been little studied. the elements for a structural solution have been systematically discarded by all the actors. this is a tragic event for the construction of europe and for political legitimacy in general. european citizens are waiting for answers and a vision. this report somehow provides clues. it is therefore urgent that this be clarified in a very concrete way in legislation and policy. the sooner the better.
in writing. the current crisis situation in the european union, with greece, portugal and ireland, requires a strong response from the european parliament, which is now the case with the economic governance package. but parliament must also analyse and assess the scale of the financial, economic and social crisis in order to propose appropriate solutions to the member states and to the citizens, and to get out of it and avoid at all costs the excesses that are leading us all into future crises. in this sense, i voted for the report on the financial, economic and social crisis adopted by my colleagues from the epp, because it focuses on key issues, in order to send a message of confidence to citizens, such as debt reduction, taxation, global governance, the single market, services, the eu budget, education, state aid. this report will serve as a basis for future member states' policies which will contribute to sustainable growth and jobs and to the preservation of the welfare state in the interests of the european union and above all of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to explore all avenues to rebuild our financial system on a sound basis with clear rules and to foster a strong economic recovery. the inclusion of paragraphs 57 to 60 on energy policy seems to me to be absolutely essential. with the treaty of lisbon, we now have the means to establish a genuine european energy policy. it must now be the instrument for economic recovery in europe. in its november 2010 communication, the european commission estimated that up to €1 trillion of investment needs in the energy sector by 2020. the priority will be to develop interconnections to secure the networks, or to create more infrastructure for the purpose of diversification and energy independence. it is also important to note, as the report emphasizes, that investment in renewable energy will be a guarantee of new jobs and competitiveness for the europe of tomorrow. if we want sustainable growth, energy will indeed have to become an eu priority in the coming years.
in writing. i voted for the cris report by my colleague pervenche berès because it proposes both ambitious and concrete solutions to get the union out of the financial, economic and social crisis that europeans are suffering from every day. only with european solutions, such as the issuance of euro-bonds that will allow for better management of sovereign debt, greater investment in education, research and vocational training and the establishment of effective and sound economic governance, will europe be able to emerge from this crisis in a sustainable way. however, while on 8 june parliament called in its report by the sure special committee for the union's budgetary means to be commensurate with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we can only regret that the message was not reiterated in the final version of the cris report. in order to implement the europe 2020 strategy, to revive the european economy and to promote employment, we will need a substantial increase in the european budget in the coming years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pervenche bérès on ways of overcoming the financial, economic and social crisis. i welcome an initiative which affirms the need for an integrated european political and economic approach in order to emerge from the crisis and to revive the european project. i am particularly pleased with the creation of a eurobond system and the establishment of a european energy community. i also welcome the creation of a european treasury, which would make it possible to pool the debt, with a vice-president of the commission at its head who could effectively steer european monetary policy. i regret, however, that the amendment on increasing the eu budget to boost growth, jobs, innovation and investment under the eu 2020 strategy was rejected in the plenary vote. i doubt that austerity is the way out of the financial, economic and social crisis for the european union.
in writing. this report has several merits. he wants to reduce income inequality. it highlights the harmful role played by banks during the crisis. he advocates energy savings and the increasing use of renewable energy. he called for the free movement of persons in europe to be preserved. good intentions but no effect, because the rest of the report is an apology for authoritarian and liberal europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. he explains that tax competition can be acceptable. he is concerned about the poverty of women and children and is quick to refer the problem to ngos. it warns against protectionism and populism. that is why i cannot vote for this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the berès report because, in these times of scepticism, parliament has shown that a response to the crisis is possible: it is obviously 'more europe'. in the face of the critics of european integration, parliament offers a long-term vision. the commission's proposal is intended to serve as a guideline for the commission and the member states to exit the crisis and prepare for recovery. i am convinced that europe must take advantage of the return of growth to become the benchmark and to put its action into the long term. we must ensure that our policies are coherent at the continental level, particularly in economic, monetary, transport and cohesion matters.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the people are deploying enormous energy at the moment to overthrow the freedom-loving regimes that oppress them. this energy is awe-inspiring and it undoes a lot of the prejudices about the so-called atavisms of the arab world. the union must do much to live up to these aspirations, as has been said. condemning violence, supporting those who bring about change, punishing tyrants, reversing the arrangements negotiated with the deposed powers, taking on the human, political and economic consequences of the upheavals in the making, preventing attempts at counter-revolution, limiting the causes of destabilisation and rebuilding our relations on a partnership basis, that is to say, on a reciprocal basis, with partners who will henceforth be accountable to their own people, this is a real revolution for the european union. today, who seriously believes that bashar al-assad is capable of launching a political process that would involve democratic actors of change in order to build a state of law? i don't, and i don't think many people do. but this call for bashar al-assad to leave power is not in our resolution; nor is there, unless proven otherwise, a majority to call the atrocities of this regime against peaceful citizens alleged crimes against humanity, because that is the case, and to demand, by a security council resolution, referral to the international criminal court. i think we have not exhausted our diplomatic capabilities. turkey can be of great help in this matter in convincing the reluctant countries, which have been mentioned, notably russia and brazil, but also china. to take on means also to protect, and to protect means to resettle refugees, to activate temporary protection, to rescue at sea. this is what the union should offer to refugees in practice, instead of organising crisis summits to challenge the community acquis. if the union is to be coherent, it needs a mechanism to involve civil society at all stages, in the definition of objectives, indicators, implementation and evaluation of the union's agreements with our future partners. because that is where the real change for the european union is. our partners are now accountable to their people, and their people are eager for democratic demands. mrs. ashton, you had the right intuition and analysis, long before the revolutions. at the beginning of your mandate you said: 'the credit of the union's foreign policy is in its neighbourhood'. that's right! if the union is to meet the democratic aspirations of the peoples, its role in the new world geography will no longer be a question mark over a pile of anxieties. but today, in this situation, it is the status of the european union in the world of the 21st century that is at stake.
mr president, madam high representative, the demand for democracy, freedom and dignity of the peoples of the southern shore is a call to us, europeans, mediterranean peoples of the northern shore. we have been too slow to respond - or not respond - to these old needs in line with the values we advocate. after algeria - the first - tunisia, egypt, libya, syria, morocco, jordan, the peoples of the southern shore remind us of the thirst to live according to the universal values of equality, freedom and fraternity. the union for the mediterranean could be the project that would rebuild our relations around a mare nostrum based on fraternity and respect for the law. but it has been confronted by israel's policy of continuing to flout international law and colonize palestinian territories. the upm summit was canceled twice because of this. it's time to do what we say, to break out of the double standard. mrs ashton, will you have the courage to act to bring about the existence of the state of palestine within the 1967 borders and to lift the blockade of gaza? the time has come if we are not to de-legitimize ourselves in the eyes of the peoples of the south.
mr president, madam high representative, today all our eyes are of course on syria, but also on libya, where the situation is difficult. and at the same time, what is urgent is to fly with the help of tunisia and egypt. the g8 in deauville said it would mobilise $40 billion, half of that for tunisia and egypt alone, for the 2011-2015 period. i would like to say to you, madam high representative, that now is the time to help these two countries. now, before their elections, we need to help them stabilize their economy, help them get their economy going again; there is no democracy without development, and no development without democracy. so it is urgent to help, to invest, to be there for them. we must also have a more coherent partnership policy, rethink our trade links with them, and open our borders to products from, for example, tunisia. it will also be a way of helping them and rethinking a migration policy that is a european policy and not an addition of selfish national policies. one more word about syria. everyone has talked about it; amnesty international yesterday called the brutality of the repression a crime against humanity. i take this very seriously. it is clear that europe must do even more than it has done; it did well, but we must tighten the sanctions. and i think the silence of the international community is absolutely reprehensible, that silence is like issuing a license to kill, and that you cannot talk or negotiate with them without first condemning what is happening today in syria. we should think, i think, about how the un works when it comes to crimes against humanity. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i even wore a flowered shirt to represent the arab spring. who could have expected, a few months ago, that this new wind, fuelled by the universal values of democracy, would now blow over the southern shores of the mediterranean and, more broadly, over the arab world? no one did. certainly not most of the european leaders who have been urging us for years to make all kinds of agreements with dictatorial regimes to further europe's interests. i say to myself today that it is never too late to show courage and dignity - the courage to tell our peoples that there is no muslim horde marching into europe, but that there are young populations who, at the cost of their blood, irreversibly desire the establishment of democracy, and want europe to be an actor that helps them so that the rule of law is no longer a chimera but becomes a reality. tunisia and egypt are now experiencing an emergency situation. i shall not, because time is running out, give a general overview of the situation in the countries in revolt. but i want to denounce here before you, with force and emotion, the atrocities committed by the regimes of gaddafi in libya and bashar al-assad in syria. this condemnation applies, of course, to all countries where the word repression is opposed to the word freedom. in these moments, even though history is sometimes cruel, the international community - of which you are one of the dignitaries, madam - should speak out in support and solidarity with the people in struggle, but also in the strongest possible condemnation, in all instances, of all these disgraced regimes and all the countries that do not respect international law and the resolutions of the united nations. in your communication of 25 may you referred to this support. i know this is one of your priorities. but i ask you, madam high representative, even if you have to devote all your energy to it, to switch from words that soothe to solutions that construct. i would not like, as the only response to this arab spring which is changing the face of the world, a european winter in which minds are narrowed, borders are closed and walls are erected.
in writing. tunisia, egypt, are bearers of hope for the whole region. they show that a positive outcome is possible, that the efforts of their peoples are not in vain. we must continue to accompany them, listen to them and offer assistance according to their expectations and needs. but these advances and hopes must not distract us from the problems of other countries in the region. the top priority today is to stop the escalation of violence in syria, in libya. i welcome the fact that the european union is finally becoming aware of the role it must play in the region. i welcome the initiative of the high representative to create the post of the union's special representative for the southern mediterranean. but we must not forget to rely on the existing institutions, which already have a network and a weight in the region. i am thinking in particular of the union for the mediterranean, for which a new secretary-general has just been appointed. the upm is emerging from a period of internal questioning. it is ready to help the countries of the region to meet the challenges they face and is perfectly equipped to do so. we have to give it all the space it deserves.
mr president, madam high representative, in october 2010 i had the opportunity to visit this region of nagorno-karabakh and to meet both the authorities and the refugee population. today i am witnessing an escalation of violence in the region, a real arms race and the deployment of bellicose rhetoric, particularly by azerbaijan. as soon as i returned, i called on the minsk group to play a more active role and to increase its efforts to bring the two sides closer together, and it is clear, particularly with the kazan summit, that the progress made has not led to a lasting peace. today, i regret to say that president aliyev's aggressive rhetoric has only made the situation worse. madam high representative, i would remind you that the three minsk group presidents presented to the g8 in deauville a road map containing, as our colleagues have pointed out, six basic principles for a peaceful settlement of the conflict. it is therefore time to move on to the implementation stage and i am convinced that without the participation of the representatives of nagorno-karabakh, a lasting peace in this region is difficult. as for the european union, it must take up the matter and intervene in support of the diplomatic efforts of the minsk group, but also consider support for the civilian population and assistance to refugees, as we were able to do for south ossetia and abkhazia in 2008, since our duty is to protect the populations. the danger of this conflict exploding is at the doorstep of europe and we must address this issue. i also call on the polish presidency, which has made the eastern partnership a priority of its presidency, to play a greater role in the south caucasus. we must trust the minsk group to resolve this conflict. i hope that the european parliament too will be able to adopt a resolution which is much more balanced than the kirilov resolution which was voted.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, what a lot of people have said to welcome the schengen acquis! we cannot talk about freedom of movement within the european union without talking about the consequences of its closure to the outside world. let's stop being scared of a few tens of thousands of tunisians. let us stop conflating and talk about the dozens of men and women who are being held in detention centres on the borders of europe, on both sides of its borders. dozens of them are sent back to their home countries without even being able to exercise their right to asylum. others are deprived of their right to live with their families. where are the basic rights of these men, women and children? what about their freedom of movement? what about solidarity between countries of the union and with third countries, when partnership agreements are made conditional on the readmission of their nationals? how can we let dozens of people die in the mediterranean without doing everything possible to save these human lives? i am sorry, but i do not think we have much to be proud of in the schengen acquis.
mr president, commissioner, following the european council last june, the commission will therefore resolve to propose new exceptional mechanisms in the schengen area in september. despite all the rhetorical precautions, everyone can see how this is a mistake, as the beginning of the dismantling of the free movement of persons in europe. in fact, some statements are not misleading, such as the one which justifies this new mechanism as necessary, and i quote, 'in order to be able to control freedom of movement'. is it necessary to point out the obvious contradiction between this formula and the political opportunism it expresses? it is worth recalling that safeguard mechanisms already exist and have worked on several occasions. there's no need to create a new one. in fact, what should alert us to the questioning of what is a founding and historical achievement of the european construction is that it is the stigma of the contamination of withdrawal into oneself and the refusal of solidarity. it is no coincidence that free movement is under attack today; it is a new symptom of the breakdown of european cohesion and the spread of the nationalist virus. this is evident in the euro crisis and in many other matters. the union's motto is moving away from 'unity in diversity' to a dangerously close approach to 'every man for himself'. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i did not support the resolution on the schengen area because i do not think it is appropriate to have a resolution which would reject in principle any extension of the criteria for establishing internal border controls and which would thus go against the conclusions of the european council and against the commission's proposals. if we limit ourselves to the criteria of 'public order and public security' that exist today, states will continue to act unilaterally by interpreting these criteria broadly in the event of strong migratory pressures, and in doing so we risk pushing for the equation of immigration and insecurity when it is necessary to react to migratory pressures. the proposed mechanism is intended to create a mechanism for the reintroduction of border controls as an exceptional last resort and within the framework of a european mechanism. today we need to strengthen the governance of the schengen area. the purpose of this initiative is precisely to be able to provide answers to the current crisis situation in the schengen area, linked in particular to the fact that some member states are no longer able to ensure compliance with their obligations under the schengen acquis concerning the effective control of their external border section.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking you all for giving me the opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the commission on the european scheme for food distribution to the most deprived persons. first, i would like to emphasise the importance of this programme for the most deprived citizens of europe. i can mention two figures here. each year more than 18 million people receive more than 440 000 tonnes of food distributed under this programme. over the years this programme has become one of the main sources of supply to charities working in the field of food aid. more than half the products distributed by the members of the european federation of food banks in 2010 originated from this programme. so it is really important. last april the general court set aside the provisions of the 2009 plan for products purchased in the market. specifically, the court ruled that the commission cannot define the volume of the programme independently of the volume of existing stocks. the total volume of the plan must also be adapted to the volume of the existing stocks when the plan is drawn up. the proportion of products purchased in the market in relation to the total volume of the plan must reflect their exceptional nature. following the court’s judgment and given the limited volume of intervention stocks available, the 2012 plan had to be greatly reduced. the commission has recently adopted the 2012 plan in order to give the participating member states and charities time to find additional resources to replace the volume that will not be provided at european level. as regards the future, the commission made various initial proposals in 2008, followed by an amended proposal in september 2010. the express aim of these proposals was to make the scheme sustainable as intervention stocks become increasingly scarce. this subject was thoroughly discussed in the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament and in the plenary on the basis of the report prepared by mr siekierksi. the commission has always appreciated the clear stance of parliament on this matter. however, a sufficient majority has not yet been obtained in the council. but the commission is firmly committed to the continuation of the scheme in the future and is ready to make any adjustments. against this background, in its recently released communication for a multiannual budget for the period 2014-2020, the commission has proposed a budget of eur 2.8 billion at current prices. considering the important contribution that the programme makes to meeting the poverty reduction target of the europe 2020 strategy, it will in future be financed from the budget for social policies. the necessary legal proposals will come in due course. in the meantime, the commission recalls that an agreement on the basis of its 2010 proposal is needed with a view to securing a food distribution plan in 2013. i am confident that this package will help an agreement between the council and parliament to be reached, so as to ensure legal certainty and stable financing for the scheme. for this compromise we need strong support from this body.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am absolutely outraged by the recent decisions of the court of justice on food aid for the most deprived. the european parliament has also shown its solidarity and outrage at this purely legal decision. in fact, we voted 2010 the year of the fight against poverty. it is 2011 and today we are calling into question, for the next two years, and specifically for 2012 and 2013, the food aid to the most deprived. this aid is for europeans. we have many of our fellow citizens in the 27 member states who need this help to survive. it also happens in a time of crisis; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as rapporteurs for the european social fund for the 27 member states, we are of course fully involved in social policies to help the most deprived. this, of course, may be a temporary solution to fill a gap, but it cannot be a lasting solution, because we need social policies to bring back the unemployed, those affected in their jobs, into working life. this is the purpose of the esf. i would like to say that we will remain extremely active in preventing social policies from being overshadowed by aid policies, at a time when we need all the will to converge on aid to the most deprived. that is why parliament will be fully involved in ensuring that the esf is preserved, that the globalisation adjustment fund, which also helps workers in difficulty, is preserved, but also that we can fight poverty and find the right food aid. i really appeal to the council and to its responsibility to support these social policies.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the european programme of food aid for the most deprived was set up to enable the networks of excellence of food banks and restaurants of the heart which coluche had unfortunately and cleverly created to function, we were going through a winter that was too harsh, the winter of 1986/87. can we say that the winter ahead of us, in the midst of a crisis that is not behind us, will be less severe? i don't think he did. what are the reasons, then, for abandoning this programme? why should it be cut up into pieces, as the commission has just done in its presentation of the 2012 budget? this is the same battle that is being waged as when we had the negotiation on the europe 2020 strategy. we were told that the question of combating poverty was a matter for the member states, a subsidiary matter outside the competence of the european union. we decided to change our minds. again, we are told that this is a policy to be pursued only at the level of the member states. no, you can't! the concept of solidarity must be a european concept, otherwise it loses its soul. the programme is now the victim of the success of the agricultural policy, which has led to the depletion of stocks and prohibits the replenishment of stocks. there's some question mark here. finally, some seem to have forgotten article 9 of the lisbon treaty. however, it tells us that in all the policies of the european union, the fight against social exclusion must be at the heart of the policies defined, the means implemented and the actions undertaken. where is the coherence of the european union's action? we ask you, commissioner, to reinstate the budgetary resources for the food aid programme for the poorest, and we ask you to make clear commitments so that not a single cent is missing to mobilise this aid for the poorest in the financial perspective.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, as my colleagues have said, even as we are coming out of the year of the fight against poverty and the number of poor people in europe is increasing, the european plan for aid to the poorest, which is essential for food aid in europe, is now seriously and gravely threatened. his amount is going to be divided by five for 2012, and it's not even secured for 2013. it is therefore urgent that you find a practical solution for the millions of beneficiaries. firstly, for the next two years the commission must implement as quickly as possible a transitional solution to guarantee the programme and preserve the food aid which the poorest are currently receiving. for the future, please know that our parliament demands, expects and wishes that the commission implement a permanent mechanism, sustainably setting the food security target for europe of around eur 500 million per year, this amount having to take account of the evolution of food prices. you must therefore mobilize the necessary budgetary resources. we believe that this is what parliament expects of you. in the long term, we must do more to limit speculation in raw materials in order to bring food prices under control. it is clear that in the future european farmers must be able to live off their produce. the consumer must no longer suffer from continuous price increases and the poorest must be able to meet their food needs. solidarity between europeans is more than ever a requirement. it is therefore our duty and your duty to ensure that this aid, which is essential for millions of people, is maintained. it is our duty and your duty to fight poverty and exclusion in europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think it is possible to consider changes in the budget line. we are not asking for conservatism, but we are asking the commission to do two things. the first is to realise that the rise in inequality in europe is probably the greatest danger to european integration since the creation of the union. the rise in inequality means people who are struggling to feed their children, while we hear about bonuses in millions. that's a reality, that's the perception that people have of things, that's what they hear every night on tv. you can do whatever you want as a communications campaign; if we can't stop the rise in inequality, this project could go very wrong. secondly, i would like the commission to be consistent. it is a very good victory that one of the five major objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is the fight against poverty and exclusion. that is why we are simply asking you to be a little more consistent in this objective, and know that you will find support in this parliament in relation to member states which do not agree.
madam president, we are facing a real scandal here, a denial of justice. since 1987, europe has been helping the poorest, providing them with a supplementary food without which many families would not have enough to eat every day, but now, because a few states are blocking the mechanism, because in europe, unfortunately, we only know how to save on the backs of the weak, we are heading straight for a food catastrophe for more than 20 million europeans. the participation in the aid scheme would rise from 500 million in 2011 to 113 million in 2012, while in the midst of the crisis, the rich are getting richer, while the big companies are paying their shareholders dividends, europe would send a message of the most shameful to those who suffer. hungry people have to make foolish quarrels. the european parliament must, in order to restore the honour of political europe, reverse this scandalous decision in one way or another.
madam president, madam commissioner, we have all come together this morning to express our anger. there may be legal reasons for the decision that has been taken, but politically it makes no sense and politically it is unjustifiable, in the crisis we are experiencing, in the situation we are in, to see this budget for food aid, that is to say aid to the most deprived, reduced as you propose. you can't just stand there. it's not possible! this parliament, and all the groups, are asking you to take decisions that are up to the challenge. it's not a question of 500 or 100 million; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in all countries, the demands are increasing. i would add a point on the agricultural question: i am addressing the commission here too. the question of agricultural stocks is not the same as it was ten, fifteen or twenty years ago, with intervention stocks that were abundant with products. today we need a food security stock policy in the european context, both for europe and for the rest of the world. and i say that in view of the situation of hunger in the world and the situation we are experiencing in europe today. both messages are clear! you must return to a decent budgetary level, which will allow this problem to be solved, and in the field of agricultural policy the commission must now make clear proposals for the establishment of what we call food security stocks. yes, access to food, at the dawn of the 21st century, is a major problem, whether in europe or the rest of the world. this parliament, this morning, is sending you a very clear message. meet the essential challenge!
madam president, commissioner, it is a wave of revolt against injustice that has been sweeping over us in recent weeks, in recent months. not only are europeans concerned about the decision, which seems too technocratic and unfair, to reduce aid from 500 million to 100 million for the year 2012, but they also tell us that this is a political decision taken by a number of heads of government here in the european union, notably by german chancellor merkel and british prime minister cameron. we are therefore naturally asking them to reconsider their political position on this matter, and we are asking you, commissioner, to ensure that the european commission allows this balance of forces and to make a commitment to us to ensure that this 500 million aid is reinstated for the year 2012.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1986 a great french artist, the founder of the restaurants of the heart, said: 'it is high time to show solidarity'. twenty-five years later, where are we? poverty, inequality are exploding. it is high time that you took up your responsibilities, and in particular that you moved all the member states which are not able to help the poorest among us. it is also high time that poverty was eradicated. how long will we have to wait before we adopt a genuine framework directive on a minimum income, which would enable everyone to live in dignity, but above all to eat to his fill and to have access to all fundamental rights? at a time when we are talking about a platform to combat poverty and we are told that 43 million europeans are at risk, you are cutting the budget. this is outrageous! i say it loud and clear, it's outrageous! it's high time today... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i echo the sentiments of thousands of citizens who are among the poorest, european citizens living more than 10 000 km from here. i am talking about the people in the outermost regions of the european union, who are desperate to see their only means of survival disappear with the abolition of the 400 million allocated to the programme. i therefore join the other members who have spoken in this vein in asking the commission not to abolish these appropriations, even if it subsequently finds the appropriate means of making this food aid scheme for the poorest sustainable and in accordance with the regulation. in any event, we shall ask for the reintroduction of these 400 million in the 2012 budget. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that we are about to speak on a subject of vital importance, both human and symbolic. solidarity between the peoples of europe is one of the fundamental values which unite us all here; it is also our duty to protect it. in 1986 we decided to help people in very precarious situations. today, europe has no moral right to deprive the poorest of food resources because of legal concerns and the lack of involvement of some partners. if left unresolved, this crisis will have catastrophic consequences for european charity. it is now urgent to overcome the divisions and quickly find a solution for the period up to 2014 and to think about the future of this programme for the next budgetary programming. this news should lead us to ask ourselves more broadly what model is best suited for europe to ensure the security of our agricultural production and our food supply. that is the message which i think parliament should send to the states and the peoples of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he is doing on this report. i must tell you that i too am in favour of a strong europe, a visible europe, a europe of the peoples; i am for a federal europe. i am in favour of using all the means to make this europe more conquering and more ambitious. and yet, ladies and gentlemen, i find it very difficult to explain to my fellow citizens, the citizens who are in my territory, that today europe is taking care of the institutions, even though my citizens feel that they are being left a little on the side of the road. they say, "but isn't there something else we can do first? is there not the greek crisis, the debt crisis in the eurozone, industrial challenges, climate challenges? are there not 13 million people, destitute european citizens, looking for solutions to their plight? i cannot explain to the citizens who are standing by me that in parliament i deal first with these institutional problems. so i support this. i am firmly in favour of a federal europe. the pan-european list is certainly a strong signal in favour of the strong europe we want - and mr méndez de vigo, you say 'we must not wait' - but i cannot explain to my fellow citizens today that we must first take care of our institutions, even though they feel that we are leaving them on the side of the road.
madam president, the french delegation to the epp group was overwhelmingly against the transnational lists. i do not want to go into all the arguments, financial or otherwise, and the political aspects. i believe that today we have all the institutions necessary to 'manufacture' the european union. we must be careful not to confuse speed with haste. it is a false good idea and today, i believe that with the election of the president of the commission in 2014, we have all the political means to make community products. i would draw parliament's attention to the fact that by going too fast and constantly waving the word 'community', without consulting national parliaments, governments, on schengen, on economic governance - where we are not able to find majorities - we are manufacturing anti-community products. that's why we need a little patience. one day we will have a federation, but today there is no political majority. let's not upset the citizens over such measures; it's obviously way too soon. let's not confuse speed with haste.
in writing. changing the dates of elections, wanting the european parliament to define its own national composition, imposing ethnic or other quotas, an unnecessary "pan-european" list, wanting to harmonise the minimum age for the right to vote and to stand for election, imposing the definition of their electoral constituencies on the states... nothing in the duff report is acceptable. there may be minimum common standards for better representation: national constituency, proportional representation, 3% threshold... the national composition of the parliament must be the responsibility of the european council and maintain an equivalence of representation between countries of comparable size, and not be strictly proportional to their population. but above all, the so-called 'european' members of parliament are, whether you like it or not, representatives of their nation and their nationals. and whether you like it or not, as the french historian and philosopher marcel gauchet, who is not suspected of "populism", rightly says, "the national framework remains the true political framework in which people assert their belonging and their desire to influence the common destiny". it is because you deny the necessarily national dimension of democracy that the citizens turn away from you.
in writing. on the occasion of the debate on the own-initiative report proposing an amendment to the 1976 act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, i would like to recall that the treaty of lisbon has conferred on the european parliament the right to make a proposal on its composition and the method of its appointment. the main proposal in the report by our colleague andrew duff is, of course, the creation of pan-european lists. the idea is that each voter may cast a vote for the pan-european list of his choice in addition to his vote for the national or regional list presented within his member state. i personally support the idea of pan-european lists, which i believe will give a european dimension to the campaign for the european elections, which, as we all know, is too often only about national issues. the pan-european list can also help to create a european public opinion and a truly european debate. moreover, the existence of pan-european lists would give a greater role to european political parties, which would thus be given more visibility in the political landscape and could conduct joint campaigns in all member states.
in writing. following the european parliament's vote of 7 july 2011, the european union will launch the 'year of active ageing' from january 2012. the aim of the year is to encourage and support efforts to promote active ageing, to consider future national policies related to ageing issues and to encourage solidarity between generations. as a member of the european parliament, member of the committee on employment and social affairs and a doctor, i am particularly sensitive to this subject, which is a challenge for the european union. this is a matter that affects all of us in some way. we need to talk about it now. this initiative aims to stimulate debate and raise public awareness of the importance of active ageing and the role of older people in our societies. as the european union faces an ageing population, member states are called upon to think of new smart and sustainable policies. the european parliament wants 2012 to be used to set specific targets for the member states and thus avoid the collapse of our solidarity systems under the financial burden of ageing. that's why i've supported this calendar with all my wishes.
in writing. there is a general question about the need to organise these costly and totally useless events, the european years. with the year of "active ageing", we are reaching new heights! it is necessary to quickly clear up those who, misled by the new language used, would see in the term "active" a promotion of a social or sporting investment by older people, the appreciation of the contribution they can offer voluntarily to society, the encouragement of healthy ageing ... no, it is mainly a matter of organizing a year of propaganda to change attitudes in favor of keeping older people at work. as long as i can. maybe even to death, which would save a lot of money for our pension systems? a kind of psychological support for the restrictive policies pursued by the member states at the behest of brussels. social europe is really cool!
in writing. the issues of ageing and dependency are major concerns for european countries facing rapidly ageing populations and declining labour force participation. by 2060, europe is expected to have two assets for every person over 65 and public spending on ageing is expected to increase significantly. by designating 2012 as the european year for active ageing, the member states and the european institutions are making a strong commitment to improving the employment opportunities and conditions of older workers, intergenerational solidarity and better inclusion of older people in our societies. these commitments should be reflected in actions to raise public awareness, in exchanges of good practice between member states and in the promotion of local, national and european initiatives. national coordinators will be responsible for ensuring the smooth running of the activities organised throughout the year in the member states or at european level. i therefore particularly welcome the adoption of this report, which reflects the determination of the european parliament to tackle a problem which i consider to be fundamental.
in writing. this report makes the retirement age of 65 a given. i am formally opposed to this. active ageing should not be confused with working ageing. i am committed to doing everything possible to ensure that 2012 is not the year of retirement at 65 and over.
in writing. active ageing: what is this new concept ? i voted against this report on the european year of active ageing 2012. the report does contain a number of positive ideas, such as combating age discrimination, improving social and health services, particularly in terms of access, promoting lifelong learning and volunteering for the elderly. but these are just fine phrases contradicted by the reality of the policies implemented. the concept of 'active ageing' is also ambiguous. this is another way of telling people that they must work longer and longer, and the resolution makes this clear by saying that we must 'mobilise the potential of older people' so that 'they can find their place in the labour market'. we have other things to offer older people, starting with stopping the opposition to young people and offering them a real place in society that takes into account the acquired skills that preserve the social acquisitions that allow them to age with dignity. this is the challenge of the european year.
in writing. i would like to express my full support to those who are fighting for democracy and human dignity on the other side of the mediterranean. this common resolution does the same, and that is why i am not opposed to it. but i cannot support a text which does not condemn the war-mongering primacy of nato in libya, which does not denounce the crimes of the gulf cooperation council army, which indulges in a despicable imperialist policy and makes unreserved concessions to others. i therefore vote against.
in writing. the report does indeed touch on the need for a change in the eu's foreign policy stance in the context of democratization which lacks objectivity and coherence. i support the promotion of human rights and the report contains some positive points, such as the active application of human rights provisions in international agreements, the support of a broad and deep civil society, the promotion of transparency. however, the report does not sufficiently emphasise the eu's responsibility for the reality of the implementation of human rights within the eu, and in particular its own trade agreements which contain democracy and human rights clauses and which are too often not applied due to the diplomatic and political choices of the member states. in addition, the report does not sufficiently recognise the principle of non-interference in the democratic transition processes and makes too much mention of funding and the multiplication of additional tools and bodies, whereas it is a question of political will.
in writing. when voting on this resolution, parliament reaffirmed its support for schengen: the free movement of persons within the eu is one of the four fundamental freedoms, it is one of the fundamental achievements of the community in which we live. that is why we are now sceptical about attempts to call these agreements into question and the introduction of a safeguard clause for the reintroduction of frontiers. the attitude of some countries in the lampedusa crisis has fuelled fears and withdrawal into themselves, leading even one member state to organise the return of the frontiers! schengen must be respected, the question of the safeguard clause must be examined with great caution, but above all schengen must be managed in a european manner! it is unacceptable to see migration as a threat only. zero immigration is an outrageous utopia; migration, legal and illegal, has always existed. if management of flows is a necessity, it must be done in the most humane way possible!
in writing. the democratic movements in the arab countries and the war in libya have led to and are leading to large movements of people towards the european union. in the face of this massive influx of migrants and refugees, many governments are calling for a revision of the schengen agreements and on 24 june the european council (representing the states) asked the commission to present a proposal on a safeguard mechanism to deal with such exceptional circumstances and thus be able to reintroduce internal border controls. parliament reiterated its total opposition to any new schengen mechanism and deplored the fact that several member states, such as france, italy and denmark, were attempting to re-introduce border controls. the problems we have recently encountered are largely due to the reluctance of the member states to implement a common european asylum and immigration policy, which our parliament has long called for. we need greater solidarity with the member states to deal with these extraordinary situations. schengen must be strengthened rather than weakened. we must manage to control the external borders better and not create national barriers.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on the schengen area because it is against the idea that, in the event of a massive influx of migrants, a state can re-establish controls at its national borders and thus protect itself more effectively against illegal immigration. the position i have defended is shared by all the heads of state and government of the 27 member states of the european union, from the right and the left, who at the last european council wanted to broaden the criteria for reintroducing this type of controls at internal borders. of course, free movement remains the principle of common law, and restrictions the exception.
in writing. schengen is a failure. the european citizens were promised that the dismantling of internal border controls in the union would go hand in hand with a strengthening of external border controls and the maintenance of a high level of security. the reality? europe is a sieve. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the widespread political laxity in the management of migration flows in general and of alleged asylum seekers in particular. this laxity is now being fuelled by european laws drawn up by brussels, which firmly believes that the massive import of non-european immigrants will solve our economic and social problems, and even demographic ones! every state has the right, indeed the duty, to control its borders, to control the goods and the men who cross them. what the recent, still ongoing crisis in lampedusa has shown is that the absence of internal border controls is a powerful incentive for illegal immigration applicants to rush to any easily accessible point in europe. they know that afterwards, it'll be easy for them to play by our rules and that lack of control to go where they want. the reform of the safeguard clause in the schengen agreement is not what we need to do. it's the abolishment of this agreement!
in writing. i did not support the resolution on the schengen area because i do not think it is appropriate to have a resolution which would reject in principle any extension of the criteria for establishing internal border controls and which would thus go against the conclusions of the european council and against the commission's proposals. if we limit ourselves to the criteria of 'public order and public security' that exist today, states will continue to act unilaterally by interpreting these criteria broadly in the event of strong migratory pressures and, in doing so, we risk pushing for the equation of immigration and insecurity when it is necessary to react to migratory pressures. the proposed mechanism is intended to create a mechanism for the reintroduction of border controls as an exceptional last resort and within the framework of a european mechanism. today we need to strengthen the governance of the schengen area. the purpose of this initiative is precisely to be able to respond to the current crisis situation in the schengen area, linked in particular to the fact that some member states are no longer able to ensure compliance with their obligations under the schengen acquis concerning the effective control of their external border section.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the joint resolution on the schengen area. we need to strengthen the political governance of the schengen area, develop a genuine european immigration and asylum policy and develop the role of frontex. the aim is not to undermine freedom of movement within the schengen area, but to adapt the agreement to the realities of migration. the content of this resolution does not seem to me to be appropriate, because it rejects in principle any extension of the criteria for the temporary and exceptional reintroduction of internal border controls. this resolution goes against the conclusions of the european council and the proposals recently made by the commission, which appear to be balanced and realistic. it is important to review the current criteria of 'public policy and public security', which are not appropriate to the current situation and leave too much room for interpretation to the states, especially in the case of strong migratory pressures, with the risk of equating immigration and insecurity. i therefore believe that the creation of a european mechanism to allow the reintroduction of border controls in an exceptional way is highly desirable and would make up for the shortcomings of some states in controlling their external borders in the event of strong migratory pressures.
in writing. this text sends a negative signal to the attempts of presidents sarkozy and berlusconi to exploit the arrival of refugees at europe's borders for the benefit of a security and xenophobic policy. no, there is no need to introduce a temporary reintroduction of frontiers clause in the schengen agreements. that possibility is already provided for. no, there is no need to strengthen the capacity of frontex. she's already done enough damage. but this text is weak on the latter point and promises sanctions for those who do not comply with the dictates of fortress europe. i'm not going to do it for these reasons. i support the call against the unjustified reintroduction of internal frontiers.
in writing. the european programme for aid to the most deprived (pead) (which is part of the cap) is helping 13 million people in need by allocating €500 million in european aid to 240 food banks, including secours populaire, restos du cœur and the red cross. almost 25 years after the launch of this initiative, germany has lodged a complaint against this mechanism which allows the financing of social aid not through the budget of a social policy but through the budget of the agricultural policy. the mechanism was found to be illegal and the european commission was forced to announce that it was being challenged. to prevent this eur 500 million aid from being reduced to eur 100 million this winter, my colleagues and i have asked the european commission and the member states to provide a transitional mechanism in the short term and to change the legislation in the medium term to allow this programme to continue (i personally propose involving the esf). we will continue to fight for this because we cannot leave 13 million europeans on the side of the road!
in writing. the european commission's decision to drastically reduce the programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) has caused an outcry among the beneficiary associations and a feeling of incomprehension among citizens more generally. it is true that this is a legal problem, but following a decision by the court of justice, the commission had no other choice. but the question of the sustainability of this fund has been raised for several years. the commission should have already found solutions to avoid this extreme situation, since the matter was blocked in the council. by adopting today by a very large majority this resolution on the future of the pead, we reaffirm our support for the programme, which we believe should retain a budget of around eur 500 million per year, and for the commission in its search for a solution. it must, on the new legal basis, formulate a proposal as soon as possible but also quickly find a transitional solution to enable associations on the ground to continue to play a key role in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european food aid programme for the most deprived (pead), because i am concerned about the future of this programme following a decision by the european court of justice which called into question its financing mechanism. this decision implies a drastic reduction in the programme's budget, from an average of €500 million per year to €113 million for 2012. this is unacceptable when the pead benefits over 13 million europeans and supports the activities of the vast majority of european charities. i therefore fully support this resolution which calls on the commission to find a rapid solution to the lack of funding for this programme which is essential in the fight against poverty in europe.
in writing. the european commission's decision on 19 june to reduce aid to the poorest from €500 million to €113 million has had a bombshell effect on the european charitable landscape. one year after the european year for the eradication of poverty, and in the context of the eu 2020 strategy's objective of reducing poverty and social exclusion, the commission's decision is quite surprising, but the fact that no substitution mechanism has been put in place at the same time is even more surprising, especially in times of crisis. i therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution by the green, s&d, epp, alde, gue/ngl groups on the scheme for the distribution of food to the most deprived people in the european union. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to find a transitional solution for financing the eaggf from 2012 to 2013 if the eaggf is no longer dependent on the common agricultural policy.
in writing. in europe, almost one in ten people (43 million) is at risk of food poverty, according to estimates by the european commission. europe is helping them through the european programme of food aid for the poor, and i am very attached to this arrangement. following a ruling by the court of justice of the european union that only the supply of food from intervention stocks is covered by the programme, as opposed to expenditure generated by the purchase of food on the market, the commission is planning a drastic reduction in funding: from eur 500 million in 2011 to eur 113 million in 2012. it seems inconceivable to me that the european programme of food aid to the poor should suffer a sharp reduction in the funds available to it, especially when this is due to a problem of legal basis. i hope that a solution will be found as soon as possible, and i of course support this resolution which demands that a solution be found, whatever legal arrangements allow it!
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 'food distribution scheme for the most deprived persons in the union' in order to preserve this programme which is particularly valuable for all french charitable associations but which is threatened by legal considerations. i therefore call on the european commission and the council to continue the distribution scheme for the last two years of the current funding period (2012 and 2013) and for the next funding period (2014-2020). the scheme must also be backed by a legal basis that cannot be challenged by the court of justice of the european union and maintain the annual ceiling of eur 500 million, so that those who depend on food aid do not suffer from food poverty in europe.
in writing. 13 million people currently depend on food aid from the european union under the cap. the court of justice of the european union has held that this aid cannot be supported by the common agricultural policy (cap) budget. following this judgment, the commission hastened to propose in 2012 a radical reduction in funding for food aid, from eur 500 million in 2011 to eur 113 million in 2012. at a time when austerity policies are increasing poverty, this decision is unbearable. the european parliament has largely spoken out against this drastic cut. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's food aid scheme was brought to an end without delay. i particularly welcome the adoption of the amendment by my group, the gue/ngl, calling for the maintenance of the 500 million food aid for the poor.
in writing. the european parliament took a position on the state of play of the fight against antipersonnel mines. parliament strongly encourages all states which are not parties to the anti-personnel mine ban treaty and the convention on cluster munitions to accede to it, in particular those member states of the european union which have not yet done so. at international level, the european parliament's report encourages the us to join, especially as a number of actions are already being taken by the us on this issue. parliament also encouraged russia to sign the treaty. i voted for this report because if this vote is an opinion without any binding force, this type of reminder is never unnecessary, especially in the field of international law.
author. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again, unfortunately, our parliament is forced to strongly condemn the mass rapes committed regularly, with total impunity... (the president interrupts the speaker) in the democratic republic of congo, in particular in the province of south kivu. monusco has failed to provide adequate protection against these mass rapes and it is the responsibility of the drc government to ensure security on its territory and to protect civilians. the funds allocated reach very few victims, and the coordination of aid is no longer assured at all. it is essential that the commission maintains its funding for humanitarian aid in the east of the drc. the plan to resolve the conflict in south kivu by favouring a military solution has proved to be a failure. the solution to this conflict must be political and the international community's lack of courage is regrettable. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that the media also have an essential role to play, which they do not always play, and in particular to ensure that the mobilisation remains strong and that public opinion is duly alerted.
author. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the death penalty is the most cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment, which is a violation of the right to life, as proclaimed in the universal declaration of human rights. davinder pal singh is facing imminent execution in new delhi, india, after the indian president rejected his appeal for clemency in may, and it should be noted that this is the second appeal rejected this month. that is why this resolution is a strong signal from the european parliament. the european parliament must condemn all executions, wherever they take place. the european parliament should encourage the european union and its member states to ensure the implementation of the un resolution calling for a universal moratorium on executions with a view to total abolition in all states still practising the death penalty. i thank all my colleagues who contributed to this resolution, and i will just end by mentioning that i tabled two amendments because i would like to recall that davinder pal singh had sought political asylum in germany but was forcibly returned to india, where he was arrested upon arrival at new delhi airport in january 1995. yet, two years later, the frankfurt court declared his expulsion illegal. he should never have been deported to india, where his life was in danger. and finally, a body of evidence indicates that davinder pal singh was denied a fair trial. that is the subject of the second amendment which will be put to the vote. i thank my colleagues and hope that the whole resolution and these two amendments will be voted on.
madam president, commissioner, some of us were in doha when we launched the doha round. we know that in some ways this cycle was stillborn: it had so many contradictions in its genes that it could not succeed, but it was ultimately the international situation - we were just after 9/11 - that forced all countries to sign in doha. today, we are not dealing with a crisis of confidence in the international community, but first and foremost with a crisis of globalisation, and the issue is no longer one of 'increasing liberalization' but of course one of regulation, in a world where we are all witnessing the damage caused by the globalisation of trade, both from an environmental and a social point of view. what kind of economy does europe want to have? how do we stop environmental, social, fiscal or monetary dumping? how do we guarantee the free exercise of trade union freedom everywhere? how can europe make such exchanges conditional on the recognition and exercise of freedom of association? these are the questions which europe must ask itself today, when it is moving into a multilateral framework. let us take note of the end of the doha round, let us adopt a limited package, reserved for the least developed countries, but above all let us launch an ambitious and transparent process of reform of the world trade organisation, a process which guarantees the fair participation of all the stakeholders and interests, especially the weakest countries, which finally subordinates commercial law to social law, environmental law and, of course, human law and which, in fact, clearly shows a multilateral regulatory agenda that puts globalisation back in its rightful place.
in writing. when i read mrs in't veld's report, i was surprised by the candor of some of her statements or proposals. mrs in't veld is certainly not an expert on terrorism, or even on the fight against terrorism as it is conducted in the member states. and she has a short memory ! the commission is opposed to profiling, but suggests that some of the terrorism it calls 'religious' comes from disadvantaged minorities who are not sufficiently integrated. most of the perpetrators of the attacks of the last decade were well integrated, had a university degree, a job and the nationality of a country of the union. it is a fan of all-round transparency, cost-benefit analysis and democratic debate on policy, and prefers to ruin all the efforts of police or intelligence services whose success depends precisely on discretion. and what it does is it's exactly like informing potential terrorists of our weaknesses and our best possible targets. if i had needed to be convinced that the fight against terrorism is an area which must be protected as much as possible from the harmful action of the union and its institutions, mrs in't veld's report would undoubtedly have succeeded.
madam president, i thank mrs ford for her work, but i would like to point out that the green group has tabled an alternative resolution, a key element of which is the protection of sensitive natural areas, particularly the arctic. if exploration or exploitation permits are granted, then, in the event of an accident - as we have seen in the gulf of mexico and also in scotland - there will be irreversible or very destructive losses to this unique environment in the world. on the other hand, one may wonder who will clean up the site in the event of an accident, since it is not an exclusive economic zone, which defines its boundaries and therefore responsibilities: it is a universal place. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to several points. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. secondly, there is a need to define responsibilities. amendment no 76 establishes full liability for tankers, without a ceiling. at the same time, amendment no 47 defines civil liability, which is capable of covering not only environmental damage but also social and economic damage, with the guaranteed financial capacity for compulsory insurance. it's good to think about small oil companies, but if they don't have insurance, there's no reason to give them a license. so these are very important points.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the results he has achieved - not without difficulty - in a particularly delicate and difficult matter in negotiations with the member states. it is obvious that there are a number of positive points which can be described as some progress, although i do not hide from you that my group and i would have liked to have been able to go a little further in this reform. we have thus succeeded in making the agency more concerned about respect for fundamental rights in the context of its missions. this seems obvious but it had to be clearly formalised. a specialised officer will therefore have access to all information relating to fundamental rights and will perform his duties independently. the agency will have to assist member states in humanitarian emergencies and rescue at sea, and we have seen how important this has been in recent months. operations will be suspended in case of violation of fundamental rights. agreements concluded by frontex with third countries will have to meet european standards on fundamental rights. the principle of non-refoulement of migrants will be respected in all circumstances. this is all going in the right direction. the new regulation also aims to make frontex more operational. to this end, member states will have to make a firm commitment to make staff and resources available to the agency. third, a notable step forward: frontex will be subject to increased democratic transparency, which will involve the european parliament very directly, although in this area future developments - i hope - of this regulation will have to increase the right of scrutiny of parliamentarians. three themes, three types of progress that sound like obvious ones but that have been, nevertheless, very complicated to obtain. two final thoughts to finish. frontex is and must continue to be seen for what it is, that is, a tool for the european union's strategy on external border surveillance. frontex is not the perfect alibi or the backstop for member states to use for their own migration policy, which will continue in my view and we will have to work on this to ask a number of questions about the respective responsibilities. on the other hand, in the midst of the debate on schengen, we must all bear in mind that european migration policy has many more challenges to face than frontex in the areas of, for example, integration or resettlement, or access to fair and equitable protection. we want the union, in all its components, to show the same political will on these issues too. i believe that we can thus speak of progress in the area of a europe of asylum and migration.
for the greens/efa group madam president, frontex is an agency that is not in crisis, since its budget has increased from just over eur 6 million to over eur 80 million since 2005. this means that frontex has grown up without any embarrassing questions for many years. finally, the member states had an interest in it: first, to have the resources available for their own internal work, secondly, to have the possibility of using frontex in the face of states considered to be lacking in border control, and finally, to have the powers and means of the agency strengthened, which everyone was asking for. this is why, two years ago, the director of the frontex agency was able to say to the libe committee of parliamentarians concerned about human rights violations: 'this is not the work of the frontex agency, it is the responsibility of the member states!' frontex has finally grown into this form of irresponsibility towards human rights. i think it is a great honour for parliament and its rapporteur, mr busuttil, to have placed the question of the protection of fundamental rights at the top of the negotiating agenda today. of course, because the lisbon treaty is coming into force and the agency is now accountable to the court of justice for its actions - this is not nothing - and also because many reports show that the principle of non-refoulement has been violated several times during frontex operations, that access to asylum procedures - inviolable and international law - has been rather abused. a report from human rights watch is also expected to show that the frontex agency has some responsibility in the abusive detention of migrants. we had a problem with respect for human rights and i believe that the negotiations have made some serious progress in this area, but this will not lead my group to vote in favour of this mandate, because we consider that the question of independence - as mrs lochbihler has said - the question of independent observation, the reliability, the impartiality and the independence of the procedures for combating human rights violations are not established. that is what will ultimately motivate my group's abstention. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask the commission and the council about the balance sheet or the state of play of the hermes operation, the latest frontex operation: ships, helicopters, 2,000 drowned in the mediterranean since the nato intervention in libya. what did frontex do during this period? i don't know, man.
madam president, commissioner, the agreement finally reached after months of struggle is an undeniable improvement in the way frontex operates. strengthening the agency's capacity is, for us, above all, a means of strengthening fundamental rights. here, as in the other very serious issues that are shaking the european union at the moment, it is time to give expression to european responsibility and solidarity between states. for too long, frontex has been too opaque in terms of information, conditions and criteria applied to citizens rescued at sea, and thus, in effect, the fate of these people. of course, the states will now be responsible. this is one of the major advances in the regulation. but the fact remains that thousands of people have died at sea this summer in the mediterranean, in often unnamed hypocritical battles between states and over territorial waters. for my part, after my visit to the island of lampedusa and my meeting with the border guards in that area and the people in the reception centre, this memory will remain forever etched in my mind. it is time to take account of this situation at the union's borders, which affects the member states of our union.
madam president, frontex is a symbol: the symbol that the european union wants to give of the way it manages and controls its borders. the european parliament has once again tried to press for greater consideration of the fundamental rights of those seeking to join the european union for economic or humanitarian reasons. some of our amendments, particularly those concerning rescue at sea, have been incorporated and i would like to thank our rapporteur for that. but we are far behind in the discourse we give to the world. i will give you just one example: the rescue at sea. according to ngos, more than 2,000 migrants have disappeared at sea since the beginning of the year. this summer, nato ships finally responded and picked up shipwrecked people, but they searched in vain for a host country within the member states. they have once again returned them to tunisia, a country which has been the main base for the solidarity effort with those who fled the war in libya, although backed by the european union. we do not want this europe, this 'fortress europe', which teaches lessons in human rights and democracy and is incapable of extending a hand to a few thousand refugees. border controls and refoulement to third countries without any real guarantee of respect for the most basic rights remain the main words. worse, we explicitly allow for collective dismissals by charter. the question of data protection is not settled. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe is currently conducting an inquiry into these deaths in the mediterranean and the european union will have to account for its failures. the human rights guarantees remain elusive. we will therefore not vote on the mandate as it stands.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank our colleague, mr simon busuttil, for the excellent work he has done. his reflections have enriched the original proposal and we can only congratulate him for that. the report outlines an agency with tenfold resources, more in line with the tasks assigned to it. recent events have shown us the need for closer cooperation between the european union and the member states and the support of a strong agency. frontex is finally able to carry out its tasks. by being able to purchase or lease its own equipment and benefit from the services of its own border guards, it becomes more independent and highly efficient. it also has new tasks, such as organising voluntary returns and processing personal data, so that we can combat crossborder crime while protecting fundamental rights. this extension of frontex's remit enables us to consider and deal with migration issues in a comprehensive way, rather than confining ourselves to mechanical border management. i welcome the possibility of exchanging personal data with other european agencies, including europol. finally, the human dimension has been fully integrated into this report. a strong recognition of human rights is guaranteed by the proposal to set up an advisory council within the agency. i can only welcome this comprehensive proposal, which allows us to take a step forward towards a sound and responsible management of our external borders, in a context where migratory pressures are particularly strong and continuous.
madam president, in the context of the upheavals and challenges they are facing, the peoples of the southern mediterranean are expecting a strong signal of solidarity and support from us. these are the peoples we colonized in the recent past, which gives us an increased responsibility. as an accompaniment to their democratic transition, we must devise a genuine policy of hospitality here in europe, one which is consistent with our values of fraternity. inventing a policy of hospitality starts with rethinking the welcome at our borders and ensuring that the fundamental rights of those who cross them are respected. it is also a question of finding a solution for the thousands of young people who are dying in the mediterranean before our very eyes. this is intolerable! this report, while introducing new clauses on respect for human rights and fundamental rights in the mandate of the frontex agency, does not go in the direction of a new policy of hospitality. despite the proposed amendments, the mandate of frontex remains confined to a repressive logic of 'fortress europe'. we must continue to work to ensure better evaluation of frontex operations with the help of an independent monitoring body, aimed at ensuring respect for democracy and fundamental rights as set out in our report.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to read out the following statement:‘the commission will, when preparing the delegated acts, ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and the council and carry out appropriate and transparent consultations well in advance, in particular with experts from the national authorities of all the member states which will be responsible for implementing these delegated acts once they have been adopted or amended. in view of the fact that questions of national security are particularly relevant when preparing, drawing up and amending public regulated service (prs) common minimum standards by delegated acts as referred to in article 8a, the commission welcomes the intention of member states to designate as experts in this process the representatives of their respective national authorities on the security board for the european global navigation satellite (gnss) systems, established by commission decision 2009/334/ec, and also welcomes the position of all member states that these experts, working together with the commission, should endeavour, as far as possible, to advise the commission on the basis of consensus.’
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is very kind of you to give me the floor. i wasn't planning on taking it. i just want to thank all the fictional rapporteurs and all the teams who worked on this. the negotiations with the council were difficult, but i think we have reached a very constructive report.
in writing. at a time when europeans sometimes question the quality of checks carried out at the external borders of the european union, i voted in favour of the report by my epp colleague, mr simon busuttil, because it provides for a balanced strengthening of the european agency in charge of this issue. frontex will have greater material and financial resources to carry out its tasks. however, respect for fundamental rights will be more than ever at the heart of its commitments. finally, frontex will have 'european border guard teams' to ensure the security of the external borders and thus of the european union as a whole.
in writing. with an estimated 214 million migrants worldwide, managing migration flows is one of the major challenges we face. however, at the level of the european union, migration policy lacks ambition. firstly, we must do better with frontex and strengthen the capacity of the agency for the management of the external borders of the union by making full use of european solidarity. the commission's proposal is to increase the number of border guards in the member states. the european union must also be better equipped to monitor the respect for fundamental rights. beyond this mechanism, if we really want to help the countries - particularly those in the southern mediterranean - then we must move towards harmonizing the right of asylum, return to the dublin convention, and, more importantly, develop a real immigration policy. this is the only way to deal with the issue of migration in a calm and responsible way.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the mandate of the european union's external border protection agency, frontex, which should make it possible to strengthen the action of this european agency in a context of strong migratory pressures at our borders. the strengthening of european cooperation as proposed in this act will make it possible to better combat illegal immigration on european territory. this new mandate is fully in line with the logic of the european pact on immigration and asylum, signed by european leaders under the french presidency of the european union in september 2008.
in writing. in an ideal world, each member state would have the upper hand in controlling its own borders, deciding sovereignly who has the right to enter and stay on its territory, and on what conditions. and that would not prevent any cooperation. but schengen and the european union have gone through this, removing all controls at the internal borders of the eu, sending an extremely strong message to those seeking illegal immigration. the latter all know that by entering the union at any point, it will be easy for them to go to the country of their choice. and all the more so as the country of entry will be overwhelmed and its authorities, outdated. this is exactly what we have been experiencing since the beginning of the year, with the 'arab revolutions' which, curiously enough, have brought tens of thousands of so-called refugees to the italian and maltese coasts, whose first duty would be to help rebuild their country. in this context, the reinforcement of frontex, the agency supposed to embody european solidarity in the event of a massive influx of migrants, seems logical. what is less important is the unhealthy insistence on considerations which, under the pretext of defending human rights, are likely to undermine these efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the frontex agency's regulations, as it was essential to clarify its role and responsibilities while ensuring that it acts in a way that respects the fundamental rights of migrants. the need for this revision became all the more evident in the context of the arab revolutions and the subsequent migratory movements. i therefore welcome several of the proposed amendments, such as the establishment of an advisory forum, which will exercise greater control over frontex's activities, and the obligation for the agency to provide rescue at sea in humanitarian emergencies, or else it will be suspended. the possibility for the agency to be independent of the member states, acquiring its own equipment, and the increased information to be provided to parliament are changes which will help to clarify the relationship between the frontex tool and political decisions. one aspect which has particularly attracted my attention is the creation, through this regulation, of the status of european border guards. this development, which is for the moment only terminological, is a novelty which will hopefully have repercussions on other professions requiring the same coordination, such as the coastguards of the various member states, for example.
in writing. the agency, which is responsible for securing the external borders of the schengen area, where citizens from 25 countries, including 22 eu members, can move freely, has often been criticised for its lack of resources. it has to monitor some 42 672 kilometres of external maritime borders and 8 826 kilometres of land borders. the european parliament adopted new rules on frontex this week by 431 votes to 49, with 48 abstentions. this is the most important reform of the law that established frontex in 2004. our evaluation of the first six years of the agency's activities shows that it needs to be strengthened and made more effective. the agency will now buy or lease its own equipment, such as vehicles or helicopters, and will no longer be dependent on the member states' powers. the staff designated by the member states will thus feed the european border guard teams. the current 'joint support teams' and 'rapid border intervention teams' will be merged under the name 'european border guards'. the agency's budget was increased from eur 6 million to eur 88 million between 2005 and 2011.
in writing. parliament gave strong support on tuesday to the reform of the frontex agency by adopting by a large majority the report by mr busuttil (epp, mt). the report calls for the agency's mandate to be strengthened, its resources increased and cooperation between the european union and the member states strengthened. the need for a european agency to monitor the external borders of the european union effectively is no longer to be demonstrated. the pressure of migration is strong. in view of recent developments in the mediterranean area, it was urgent to review the operational and operational arrangements of frontex in order to enable it to be fully operational. i am convinced that the appropriate response to phenomena of this magnitude is a european response which respects national specificities and needs. i therefore welcome the creation of a european border guard team, which is yet another sign of the will to achieve a strong and integrated europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr simon busuttil, on the proposal for a regulation to strengthen the role of the european agency frontex in the european union's external border surveillance system. this revision will provide the agency with more financial and human resources to meet the tasks assigned to it. in particular, the agency will be able to buy or lease its own equipment, such as vehicles or helicopters, and will no longer be dependent on the member states' allocations as before. a union border guard system will also be set up, forming a reserve of national guards from which the agency will be able to draw for its various border surveillance missions from the end of 2011. the revision of the frontex regulation will improve the support of this european agency to the member states in the management of the union's external borders: as migratory pressures intensify at the eu's borders, it is imperative to strengthen the role of frontex. this was an objective of the european pact on immigration and asylum, adopted in 2008 under the french presidency of the european union.
in writing. this report endorses the empowerment of the frontex agency and the possibility for it to send its patrols to fight against illegal immigration even in third countries. a lot of it! it is not with a consultative forum that the logic of "everything is safe" will be overturned, which is here endorsed and amplified. without me. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the frontex regulation, the eu external border management agency created in 2004. objective: to define better the mandate of the agency and to make it more efficient. how did you do that ? first, by addressing a recurring problem: frontex's over-reliance on member states for the deployment of staff and equipment. the agency will now have the means to acquire or lease its own equipment, and member states will be required to respect their commitments to provide national border guards. the question is the actual creation of a european system of union border guards, from which the agency will be able to draw for all its operations. secondly, by reducing the time taken for deploying rapid border intervention missions, so that we can really deal with emergency situations. finally, and this is essential, by strengthening the provisions relating to the respect and defence of fundamental rights by frontex in all its areas of competence. this is one of the main victories of parliament in this text, which we hope will soon have direct and tangible implications on the difficult terrain of the areas on the external borders of the union.
in writing. i wanted to support this text, which enshrines my political family's vision of the principle of integrated management of our external borders. if freedom of movement is one of the greatest achievements of the community, it must be accompanied by a high and uniform level of surveillance and control of the union's borders. recent events have demonstrated the need to revise the rules for the operation of frontex, in order to be able to deal with either a failure of a state to control its borders or exceptional circumstances. sharing an internal market and an area of freedom, security and justice requires, in my view, common rules. the sustainability of the schengen area is therefore closely linked to the success of frontex missions. if the external borders of the union become porous, each state is liable to be exposed to threats. any state which considers that its fundamental interests or security are threatened would therefore be entitled to take measures to ensure public order within its territory. in this area, european solidarity must be exemplary.
in writing. far from being a myth of a galloping bureaucracy, the european union regularly reviews european legislation to remove outdated texts and thus ensure that the applicable law is more easily readable. i believe that this approach is essential for citizens and businesses alike, and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. the priority given by local authorities to large structural local development projects raises the question of taking into account their impact on the environment. this is all the more so when these projects are carried out through public-private partnerships, either because of their technical complexity or because of the scarcity of public funds that can be devoted to them. i therefore welcome the fact that our parliament has taken up this matter and reaffirms the polluter pays principle on this occasion. i believe that there can no longer be any compromise when it comes to protecting our environment, our quality of life or our health. some of these projects are likely to have a real impact on people, biodiversity and our living environment, and it is up to us to ensure that the precautionary principle prevails and to establish a system of adequate liability and compensation. i believe that this approach must be applied from design to implementation, with public consultation and consideration of the risks, alternatives and ways of eliminating all risks to the environment and the population.
in writing. the galileo programme is a european initiative to develop a world-wide state-of-the-art satellite navigation system, providing a highly reliable and accurate global positioning service under civilian control. the public regulated service (prs) is one of the three initial services that galileo could start offering from 2014. it is reserved exclusively for governments and authorised users; it will provide high-level continuity of service, coupled with very robust encrypted signals for certain sensitive applications. the use of the prs should protect critical infrastructures that depend on satellite navigation and could be used in a crisis situation. i supported this proposal, which lays down the rules for prs-only access and sets up a framework for the proper implementation of these access arrangements. i consider galileo to be one of the symbolic projects of european construction, and i hope that the initial difficulties of launching it are now behind us.
in writing. i supported this proposal for the galileo programme because, following this vote, operators authorised by the governments of the member states will be able to use the data from the satellite navigation system from 2014 onwards to carry out emergency, defence and security services. we can welcome the strengthening of the independence of european governments from the american gps system. the european space policy is essential to ensure europe's strong position on the international stage. the european union should therefore strengthen its commitment in this area, in particular by providing european funding for flagship programmes such as the gmes earth observation programme.
in writing. as from 2014, the future satellite navigation system galileo will offer several services, including the public regulated service (prs). this will consist of a highly secure gps signal reserved for certain users. the prs will be used for the identification of critical infrastructure and all types of traffic, including police operations, border controls and civil protection operations. it will thus be a channel for the transmission of highly strategic information for the internal and external security of the member states. it is therefore essential to define, before its implementation, the rules on how it is to be used. in its report, parliament provides in particular that member states, the council, the commission and the european external action service will have unlimited access to the prs in all parts of the world, while third countries, european agencies and international organisations will only be able to access it if they have been duly authorised. the report also provides that each member state will designate a prs authority responsible for the management and supervision of all authorised users. i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this international agreement on tropical timber, as it will make it possible to strengthen the fight against the illegal trade in certain timber. by limiting the profits from this trade, the european union will help to reduce deforestation in tropical areas and thus protect biodiversity and the climate. however, 20% of producers and importers of tropical wood products are not involved in this agreement, so the work started should be continued to ensure real protection of tropical forests.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving this agreement in plenary as it is in line with the measures already taken by the european union in this area, in particular the flegt agreements (action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade). this agreement, although less binding than the bilateral flegt agreements, has the advantage of binding a larger number of tropical fruit producing countries (60 in total, including 33 developing countries), thus allowing the development of the principles of sustainable management and restoration of degraded forest areas on a larger scale. in addition, in 2008 parliament had expressly asked the european commission to give its approval to the agreement, and not simply to be consulted, as it had originally planned. this change in procedure entails additional obligations for the commission, which will have to inform parliament clearly and without delay of the application of the agreement, including its renegotiation. parliament will be able to check the consistency of the actions undertaken at multilateral level, via this agreement, and bilaterally, via the flegt partnership agreements.
in writing. the new agreement with switzerland aims to amend the previous ec-switzerland bilateral agreement on geographical indications for agricultural products. the european union and the swiss confederation aim at the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin (pdos) and protected geographical indications (pgi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development. the proposal under consideration is the result of bilateral negotiations, which took place between october 2007 and december 2009. it provides for the reciprocal protection of protected designations of origin and geographical indications in the respective parties. i fully support this agreement.
in writing. as a member of the european economic area (eea), norway benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are excluded from free movement in the 1992 eea agreement. instead, it provides for a gradual liberalisation of agricultural production through reviews of the terms of trade in agricultural products every two years. from march 2008 to january 2010, further negotiations were held to conclude this draft agreement, which contains further concessions from norway to the eu and vice versa. i support this agreement.
in writing. this report concerns the extension to the principality of liechtenstein of the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products. so the protection of geographical indications will also apply to liechtenstein, which i support.
in writing. in 2009, in auckland, new zealand, the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific was adopted and opened for signature for a period of 12 months from 1 february 2010. the european union signed it on 26 july 2010. the aim is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the south pacific. it is regrettable that the majority of states are still reluctant to accept the implementation of management measures in their waters which are in accordance with international law. it is absolutely disheartening to find an example of this resistance in countries that are supposed to be or seek to be seen as champions of good fishing practice, such as australia, new zealand or chile, which are the origin of the creation of this new convention. i support our rapporteur who believes that the union must be present in all regional conventions, both to defend its priorities in terms of sustainable fisheries management and to defend the interests of its fishing fleet. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the presence of european vessels in the south pacific obliges the european union, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, to cooperate with other parties concerned with the management and conservation of fisheries resources in the region. the commission has therefore negotiated a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) agreement in the south pacific for fisheries resources not yet covered by an existing rfmo. the objective of this convention is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources in the south pacific. the european union must be present in all the rfmos, both to ensure sustainable fisheries management and to defend the interests of its fishing fleet. a presence in rfmos also allows the union to provide the necessary counterweight to ensure that there is no possibility of undermining efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. this report concerns the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and brazil on civil aviation security. the agreement was signed on behalf of the european union on 14 july 2010 and is not being applied provisionally. the enhanced role of the parliament under the lisbon treaty goes hand in hand with the responsibility to monitor more closely the conduct of the negotiations. in this respect, union and brazilian companies should benefit significantly from the application of the agreement through faster and simpler product authorisation procedures, and thus cheaper, and through mutual acceptance of certification results. in addition, the agreement constitutes a net benefit for the european union, as it will establish the mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. i am therefore our rapporteur and i propose that we approve this agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement signed between the european union and brazil because it is important to harmonise standards and processes relating to civil aviation safety. this should enhance aircraft safety and benefit companies in both our territories, which will be spared the long and costly procedures of inspection, evaluation and technical testing.
in writing. this report concerns the agreement between the european union and norway on the surrender procedure between the member states of the european union and iceland and norway. the aim is to improve the procedure for surrender for the purpose of prosecution or the execution of sentences by making it compulsory to base the surrender on a warrant of arrest. a warrant of arrest may be issued for offences punishable by the law of the issuing state by a custodial sentence of a maximum of at least 12 months or, where a sentence has been imposed or a custodial sentence has been imposed, for sentences of at least four months. our rapporteur proposes that we support this agreement, and i support it insofar as it is a question of extending to the kingdom of norway and the republic of iceland, at the request of those two countries, the provisions which already exist among the member states of the european union.
in writing. this own-initiative report follows the commission's green paper on audit policy in the context of the financial crisis. the commission is examining the possibilities of strengthening audit to help improve financial stability. the last two decades have seen the concentration of the major audit firms, leading to the 'big four' today. the report calls on the commission to ensure that the conditions of competition in the audit market guarantee market access for small companies. it advocates a clear line of demarcation between audit services and services other than audit that an audit firm provides to a client, in order to avoid conflicts of interest. i support these guidelines and have voted in favour of the report, and we are now awaiting the commission's legislative proposal.
in writing. the european union is clearly not learning from the crisis. it has already given a european passport to the rating agencies, and now it is giving a european passport to the audit firms. the operation of these private workshops has proved to be completely ineffective. a credible audit is a public audit carried out according to standards developed by elected officials. a joint audit, carried out by two different bodies, is a guarantee of reliability. that should be the rule in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which begins by recalling that europe has the highest proportion of elderly women in the world. however, older women face discrimination in the labour market related to gender and age, combined with a higher vulnerability due to women-specific career paths: the employment rate for women aged 55-64 in the eu was 37.8% in 2009, compared to 54.8% for men. women are four times more likely than men to work parttime in this age group: 38% compared to 11%. to address these problems, the report calls on the member states to apply the principle of equality between men and women in pension reform and to encourage the use of the same calculation of pensions on an actuarial basis for men and women. it called on the member states to promote initiatives to improve the use of new technologies by older women, so that they can better manage their independence, and to integrate older women into lifelong learning actions.
in writing. in the european union, the elderly population is increasing every year and the risk of poverty for women approaching retirement age is increasing. in addition, the employment rate and the wage of women over 55 are much lower than those of men of the same age. i therefore supported this own-initiative report because it calls on the member states and the commission to improve the situation of older women and to take the necessary measures to complete their legislation, in particular by implementing the principle of equal pay for equal work, but also, in the field of pensions, by not penalising them in the acquisition of their pension rights. the report also suggests tackling age discrimination, taking into account the most vulnerable groups of women, ensuring that women age with dignity and closing the digital gap that isolates this population. other measures are also proposed to improve the provision of quality care services and to take into account the needs of families who have to take care of dependent persons.
in writing. i voted for the report on the situation of women nearing retirement. the situation of women over 50 in europe is a cause for concern. because of their age and gender, women are in more vulnerable situations and have a harder time finding work. they are much more affected by precarious employment, parttime work and isolation. the report promotes equality between men and women, particularly in terms of pay and pension calculation. it stresses the need to take account of women over 50 in european policies. it makes many relevant proposals, such as extending parental leave to those who care for their parents, or training policies for older women. the report does not merely make enlightening recommendations, but also draws attention to the problems affecting women over 50. for example, it is essential to bear in mind all the forms of violence faced by older women which are often underestimated.
in writing. under the guise of fighting discrimination and violence, the aim is to oblige all european women to work until the age of 64, with precarious contracts if necessary. in addition, the pension system is being funded through capital injections and the abandonment of services for the elderly to ngos. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the situation of older women is a matter of concern from a socioeconomic point of view. indeed, major inequalities between men and women persist in many areas, strongly affecting employment and, therefore, pensions and, therefore, women's incomes. this situation is all the more worrying in view of the ageing of the population we are experiencing in europe: it is estimated that the rate of informal carers for the elderly is now 80%; it is therefore often these women who, in an already unfavourable labour market, have to leave their jobs partially or completely to help their dependent relatives. the percentage of this unpaid work is likely to increase very strongly in proportion to the ageing of the european population, affecting the pensions of these older women. the european union must take measures to promote their family and professional balance in order to reduce their risk of poverty. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report on the details of the application in the member states of the 2008 directive on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters, which is to be applied by the member states by 21 may 2011. the rapporteur welcomes the efforts made by the member states to implement the directive and considers it important to examine the way in which this legislative act is implemented by the member states in order to hear the opinions of practitioners and users of mediation and to identify needs and ways of improving it. the rapporteur concludes that member states are, on the whole, well committed to implementing the directive and that, although they use different regulatory approaches and some have complained of slight delays, the fact remains that most member states not only meet, but even go beyond, the requirements of the directive. i supported that report.
in writing. in may 2008, the european union adopted a directive on mediation on construction sites since 2004. its purpose is to promote the amicable settlement of disputes and to ensure a satisfactory link between mediation and judicial proceedings. it is clear that well-designed mediation procedures are an alternative, cheaper and quicker form of justice, with the added advantage of preserving the relationship that existed before the conflict began. this report, which i supported, examines in detail how the member states have transposed the main provisions of this legislative act. it shows that while there are varied regulatory approaches and there are some slight delays, most member states are not only meeting the requirements of the directive but are going beyond them, which i welcome. in view of the publication of the legislative proposal on alternative dispute resolution this year, and the commission's communication on the application of the mediation directive in 2013, this in-depth review was necessary in many respects. it also allowed us to hear from practitioners and users of mediation and to identify ways of improving it.
in writing. i supported this text because it allows council regulation (ec) no 378/2007 to be adapted to the new legal provisions resulting from the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009.
in writing. most industrialized countries, including all eu member states and most emerging countries, have at least one publicly supported export credit institution. together, export credit agencies represent the largest source of public financing for private sector projects worldwide. this report is the result of an agreement reached with the council. it aims to ensure greater transparency, in particular through the submission of an annual activity report by the member states. i supported this report when i voted to allow these guidelines to be applied.
in writing. the few advances made in the previous vote are downplayed or even eliminated in the compromise amendment adopted by the committee on international trade. exits the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with the ipcc recommendations. exits the assessment of the social and environmental consequences of projects financed or insured by the states. the same logic applies to exports and free and undistorted competition. the relocation of the economy, which is necessary for the survival of our ecosystem and food sovereignty, is far away. i vote against it.
in writing. public export credit agencies are a key source of financing for european enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and are an important factor in supporting their development abroad. the guarantees that these public bodies provide in the event of customer defaults or non-repayment of loans would not, in most cases, be provided by private banks. i supported this report because it adds to the oecd arrangement, which has hitherto been the reference framework, transparency requirements for financial statements and activities financed by these bodies. these additional obligations, which take effect this year, are welcome in the current context of the financial crisis. they are useful to complement the monitoring already carried out by the member states and will enable the european commission to verify the consistency of national policies in support of enterprises. finally, the new transparency provisions will ensure a fairer playing field.
in writing. as raw materials are essential for the growth of our economies, the question of the conditions under which they are used is of great importance for our developed economies. i supported this resolution because it offers a balanced approach and solutions to the economic (access to resources) and ecological (recycling) challenges of this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr bütikofer on an effective raw materials strategy for europe. this report emphasises resource efficiency, recycling and substitution. it also stresses the importance of a fair and sustainable supply of raw materials to the european union. however, i do not think that a mineral resource tax is an appropriate instrument for increasing resource efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this 'effective raw materials strategy for europe' as it is essential to ensure the european supply of strategic and critical raw materials in a fair and sustainable way. this strategy should enable the european union to regulate the derivatives markets for raw materials by strengthening cooperation between member states.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of this report for the following reasons: i share the view that the european union must have a real strategy for raw materials because the current situation is not sustainable. but the reason is not the eu's difficult access to resources. on the contrary, i would have liked the report to have focused on other issues: the effect of extraction on the environment and global warming, its consequences for local populations and the conflicts that can result. as we can see from this report, there are many solutions. however, i do not agree with all of them and consider that for others they should be prioritized. first, european companies do not have a right of access per se to resources outside the eu. secondly, consideration should be given to the possibility of a mineral resource tax to shift the comparative advantage of extraction to recycling. thirdly, we must respect the sovereignty of countries in their choice of export policy. i think the wto does not have to intervene to prevent these trade restrictions. finally, i would have liked to see more of this text on agricultural raw materials, which also deserve protection against speculation and over-exploitation.
in writing. in the run-up to the next g20 in cannes, nicolas sarkozy has made this issue one of the priorities of the french presidency. he chastised speculators who create immense instability in commodity prices and risk causing hunger riots. by 2050, our planet will have 9 billion people. our needs will increase in every area. europe needs a common strategy: better resource efficiency, recycling and innovation. the urgent need to address the shortage of raw materials and to meet these needs while fighting against speculators is the whole point of the next g20. the report also addresses the sensitive issue of rare earths - precious metals used in the manufacture of our mobile phones, for example - in which china holds a monopoly. europe must ensure a fair and sustainable supply of these strategic lands, but also find alternative solutions. we must ensure that future generations have access to raw materials at an affordable price. we cannot afford to lag behind, nor can we allow markets to act at the expense of citizens and european industrial competitiveness.
in writing. the report recognises the right of states to regulate access to their natural resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. i support all these proposals. but it also proposes that the financial markets play a greater role, that all trade restrictions be abolished and that even the raw materials which our citizens and our companies may need be placed in the hands of a european private holding company. it's inconsistent. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report because europe needs a genuine raw materials strategy to strengthen its competitiveness. this need is further underlined by the recent case brought before the world trade organization (wto) between the european union, the united states and mexico and china. the wto has supported the former, which accused china of protectionist practices aimed at raising the price of nine raw materials (including zinc, bauxite and magnesium). while china disputes this judgment, the eu's reaction is in the right direction: an 'internal' strategy, including incentives for recycling or transparency of stocks, is no longer sufficient. the eu must use all the tools at its disposal, including trade defence instruments, to ensure free and fair access to raw materials for its businesses. in addition, the eu, in its role as a driver for the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, must fully combat the trade and use of conflict minerals, including by strengthening the mechanisms for tracing raw materials and introducing a mandatory certification system for raw materials.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european union, with its limited traditional natural resources, has adopted this roadmap to ensure a sustainable and responsible supply of raw materials. it is a question of our development potential, our competitiveness, the protection of our industries, which are largely dependent on imports of raw materials. european cooperation on this subject is all the more crucial as the emergence of new powers on the international scene, hungry for minerals, leads to an unbridled race and speculation on these materials. this roadmap thus contributes to the efforts already made by some member states at the last g8, which clearly understood the need to guarantee fair access, price stability and the sustainability of raw material supplies. while this strategy of supplying resources is of paramount importance, the union must also become aware that it will become essential for it to generate within itself alternatives to traditional raw materials. i am thinking in particular of algae, which are being used experimentally to produce third-generation biofuels and which will have the advantage of meeting the challenges, which are discussed at length in this report, of stabilising the prices of agricultural products. we must explore these opportunities without further delay!
in writing. the main objective of this report is to establish the medium- and long-term framework for the development of fisheries in the black sea region. it is of great importance since, so far, no coordinated action between all the fisheries actors has been able to be carried out successfully in the black sea. however, institutional coordination could produce tangible results in protecting fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring the economic development of coastal regions and preserving the ecological balance and fisheries resources in the basin. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls for the establishment of a separate regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) for the black sea, on the model of what already exists in the baltic sea.
in writing. the reform of the eu's common fisheries policy will include the black sea. in this context, it is important to coordinate the policies of the various coastal states. i voted in favour of mrs iotova's report, which proposes, firstly, to put in place a specific policy to preserve and improve the situation of fish stocks and to ensure the existence of a fisheries sector adapted to the black sea basin, secondly, to support more targeted and better coordinated scientific research at regional, national and european levels in order to preserve ecosystems, thirdly, to provide for an appropriate status within the framework of community policies to promote sustainable fisheries, and finally to implement a specific regional organisation for the management of fisheries in the black sea.
in writing. following the april 2010 deepwater horizon oil rig disaster in the gulf of mexico, the european union decided to review the safety rules for its own offshore oil and gas operations. i voted for this report because it proposes to raise safety standards, for example by providing for the implementation of emergency plans in the event of a disaster. the basic principle of the polluter pays principle is also at the heart of the system.
in writing. widening the scope of environmental responsibility: this is what the report we have just adopted is all about. securing offshore platforms is a key challenge: we all remember the gulf of mexico disaster caused by the deepwater horizon explosion in april 2010. the damage to the surrounding flora and fauna was immense. as we have said after every disaster: never again... but in practice, everything still needs to be done: it is absolutely necessary that operators present operational emergency plans before being allowed to exploit new oil or gas fields. what we also need to do urgently is to make operators financially liable in the event of an accident! we could have done better in this report, but the principle has been adopted: operators must prove that they have sufficient financial means to repair any damage caused to the environment. the polluter pays principle should be applied to them. it is high time that operators were able to deal with the consequences of their activities.
in writing. the ford report argues that the highest safety and environmental standards should be applied to all offshore oil and gas activities. it states that, with regard to disaster response, responsibility lies with industry on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle. however, the public sector must oversee the safety and coordination of this response. i supported the paragraph that the introduction of a union-wide moratorium on all new offshore oil drilling in union waters would be a disproportionate response to the need to ensure high safety standards throughout the union.
in writing. in april 2010, the deepwater horizon oil rig explosion spilled nearly 800 million liters of oil into the gulf of mexico. it took bp five months to plug the leak. such a catastrophe must never happen again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. in addition, financial liability will have to be introduced, requiring oil and gas producers to have sufficient financial capacity to repair any damage caused to the environment.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report on the security of offshore oil and gas activities, as i believe it is essential to draw lessons from the disaster in the gulf of mexico in april 2010. such an initiative allows the european union to strengthen the security of these offshore activities and to provide an inventory of capabilities to provide for environmental crisis management mechanisms at european level.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report on enhancing the security of offshore oil and gas platforms. after the gulf disaster, i spoke in favour of increased security to prevent a repeat of this type of disaster, which not only endangers marine ecosystems but also has a devastating effect on the economic sectors of fishing and tourism. parliament has spoken in favour of stricter checks by independent experts and the adoption of contingency plans before each operation, which seems to me to be an effective and proportionate response to the need to strengthen the security of these platforms. parliament also stressed the responsibility of industry in the event of a disaster, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, without neglecting the role of supervision and coordination which falls to the public sector. i am glad that we have insisted, together with my political group, the epp, that no moratorium should be imposed on this subject. indeed, the introduction of a moratorium on new offshore oil drilling in eu waters would be a disproportionate response to the need to ensure high safety standards throughout the union.
in writing. we must draw the consequences of the explosion last april at the deepwater horizon oil rig in the gulf of mexico, which caused immense environmental, economic and social damage in the region. we are wise to guard against such a catastrophe. that is why i supported calls for an eu-wide moratorium on new offshore oil drilling in eu waters, to ensure high safety standards throughout the union. we must have common european rules, based on the highest standards, before we allow any further exploration and exploitation in deep waters. i believe that oil and gas companies should be held responsible for all the damage they cause and should assume full coverage of potential damage, without a ceiling. finally, i support the ban on exploration and exploitation in sensitive areas to be protected, particularly the arctic, and i urge the oil industry to invest more in prevention.
in writing. given the urgency of securing offshore oil and gas installations, it was only natural that i should support this report. the challenge is well identified: how to reconcile security of supply with security of energy exploration and exploitation? more and more europeans are concerned about the impact on their environment of intensifying these activities to meet the growing demand for fossil fuels. these legitimate concerns call for a maximum level of protection. that is the choice we made, and i am glad we did. i am also pleased that our parliament has established the competence of the european maritime safety agency to ensure the safety of offshore installations and to combat pollution at sea and on the coasts. the tragic consequences of oil disasters and oil spills require an ambitious prevention strategy. the whole point is to establish the precautionary principle as an intangible precondition for any authorization of offshore activities. nevertheless, this prevention component must be supplemented by a reaction component, and i renew my call for the establishment of a european rapid reaction force that can be mobilised as soon as an incident occurs. we have no time to waste on how to protect our environment!
in writing. at a time when only one in 10 women in the eu is a business owner, compared with one in four men, it is essential to work to support female entrepreneurship. this report proposes a number of ways of doing so and calls on the commission and the member states to promote the exchange of best practice in this area. i voted for him.
in writing. i voted for the report by mrs yannakoudakis, which proposes ways of encouraging female entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. i voted in favour of an amendment calling on the member states to facilitate access to entrepreneurship for roma women, in particular through micro-credit. i also supported the paragraph calling on member states to support programmes enabling immigrant women to become selfemployed or to set up businesses. finally, i voted in favour of the paragraph calling on the member states to promote a balanced representation of women and men on the boards of directors of companies, particularly where these states are shareholders.
in writing. surprising report by mrs yannakoudakis on a subject which the report itself says we know virtually nothing about, in the absence of relevant statistics and studies! so the report is a bit of a stereotype. in his view, the apparent 'under-representation' of women at the head of smes could be due mainly to discriminatory practices or the persistence of 'societal' stereotypes, from which women themselves suffer. it therefore proposes, first and foremost, specific and preferential measures to assist women in the management of their businesses. we are navigating between guardianship and affirmative action, this counterproductive policy that casts permanent doubt on the real abilities and talents of the people who are supposed to benefit from it. when will quotas and the obligation to undertake for all women be introduced? mrs yannakoudakis could have focused on the objective and concrete reasons why women are reluctant to start a business. there are plenty of them, starting with the difficulties of balancing this very busy activity with their family life. it could also have insisted on the social and financial recognition of mothers and "caring" spouses, which are practical activities that are rarely paid. she preferred to be a pseudo-feminist dogmatist.
in writing. although women represent 60% of all university graduates, they are underrepresented in full-time employment in the labour market, particularly in the corporate sector. this own-initiative report highlights the fact that men and women do not have the same opportunities to run and develop businesses and proposes concrete measures to remedy this situation. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it encourages, among other things, the european union to invest in women's entrepreneurship and in smes run by women, which are a major source of employment, for example through special grants, venture capital, interest rate subsidies and social security provisions. it also called for the fight against stereotypes and obstacles faced by women wishing to start their own businesses, called on the commission to launch a campaign to promote women's participation in the labour market through the creation of their own businesses, wanted to raise awareness among women of the exchange programme erasmus for young entrepreneurs and encouraged the implementation of policies enabling women to reconcile work and family life in a satisfactory way.
in writing. i voted for the report on women entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises. as european economies are losing steam and the economic crisis still affects large numbers of citizens, investing in women is essential. the remaining gender imbalance in business creation is unjustified and ineffective. the report promotes both financial support instruments for the creation of smes and information for women on the various opportunities available to them to facilitate the creation of enterprises. it also calls for policies to take account of the specific problems faced by women. it stresses the importance of measures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life, which is a major obstacle for many women, preventing them from entering the business world. the emphasis is also on preventing all forms of discrimination against women: it is high time that equal treatment applied to all aspects.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the report on access to documents. there are many examples where the work of the institutions should be more transparent in order to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and maladministration. i am thinking in particular of the european union agencies, whose geographical remoteness makes it more difficult for parliament to monitor them. agencies should give precise reasons for refusing access to documents on the evaluation and authorisation of various products and medicines, and not hide behind commercial reasons. transparency, access to documents, must be a central tool to ensure their proper management. similarly, in other institutions, the constant use of experts and lobbies could undermine the objective assessment of reality. transparency as required by the treaties is not limited to legislative procedures but also covers the non-legislative work of the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the functioning of working groups should therefore be as transparent as possible, by means of the publication of their members, draft agendas and meeting minutes.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr meyer, and my colleagues who have made some critical remarks, but this 2010 activity report is a great opportunity to talk about the committee on petitions, because it is still too little known. however, this committee has a direct, sometimes physical, link with the citizen, who can attend our debates himself. it has undeniable legitimacy in parliament and a very long experience thanks to its direct relationship with the citizen. any petitioner can go to parliament and defend his rights before the committee on petitions. we can also appreciate the calmness of its debates, despite the often painful cases that are dealt with. this commission represents the europe that it should be: listening to the problems of its citizens and united in finding solutions and protecting them. unfortunately, its means of action and pressure are still limited, particularly in relation to the environmental risk of projects which are sometimes almost completed. i also see it when it comes to defending specific cases, such as family rights or the rights of the child in the event of divorce. we are going to do a mission in november on this subject. i also regret that the national authorities do not always rush to provide us with all the necessary information. i would like to thank the european commission for the research and verification work it is doing, although sometimes it could go further in the search for the truth. i must also welcome the constructive work we are doing with the european ombudsman. finally, i would like to appeal to the citizens: continue to appeal to us, your directly elected representatives, through petitions. our role will always be to safeguard your interests in strict compliance with european law.
member of the commission. − i fully agree with the importance of health and safety legislation, and of the role of the ilo. we work very closely with the ilo on such issues inside the european union, and also outside the european union, because it is very important that such standards are developed and maintained both in the immediate neighbourhood of the eu and more widely. it is of huge importance that tomorrow the secretary-general of the ilo will come to this chamber and discuss related issues with us. on the question of the social rights, we have been working together with the ilo and have observed with great concern that in many cases there has been a step back, and a questioning of these. where we have already engaged with some authorities is when there is a challenge to the rights of mobile workers when, in a country which is different from the country of origin of a certain worker, his or her rights are questioned. in such cases, sometimes very publicly, we engage with the national authorities. the commission will do its utmost to protect the existing rights of mobile workers.
several of my colleagues have spoken about the segmentation of the labour market and the number of precarious jobs that are likely to develop. i would like to ask a question about this segmentation, particularly in relation to young people and, in particular, to traineeships. does the european commission intend to take any initiatives in this area? we know very well that internships are useful, especially when they take place at the end of the course and when they allow young people to have real practical experience leading to a job. we also know that in times of crisis this area is sometimes subject to abuses. does the commission intend to take a number of initiatives both to strengthen trainees as such, to demonstrate that they are useful and, at the same time, to guarantee them a fairly balanced traineeship, particularly in this context?
member of the commission. − youth on the move is the flagship initiative in the europe 2020 strategy that particularly addresses this question, especially as regards improving education policy, employment policy and the connection between the two. as part of youth on the move, i intend to present a quality framework for traineeship in 2012. this can be a stepping stone for young people’s careers and bridge the gap between the theoretical knowledge gained in education and the skills and competences needed at the workplace. however, i believe we need to avoid situations where traineeships could be misused to replace regular jobs or probation periods, and we need to support better access and participation in high-quality traineeships. we are working on this in the preparation of our initiatives for next year.
the commission's vice-president - mr abad, i would like to add something about the policy i pursue as commissioner for industry in favour of young people. i think that the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs is in itself a form of training for young people who are starting out in the workforce. i think it is a very important link between school, university and business, to train young people who are able to start working after university, after school. it is with this aim in view that i will be organising a summit with the business community, the commission and commissioner vassiliou in rome before the end of the year on the subject of education and training for young people. there is a shortage of engineers in europe, not enough young people studying in technical schools. we must therefore try, particularly through training courses, to strengthen this sector, which is very important for the development of european industry. that is why the commission, and in particular my directorate-general, intends to develop the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs. we will therefore be looking at how to strengthen these links for the training of young people after university and school.
i am one of those who actually advocate this erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, and in particular the idea that we need to go even further in industrial employment. in this connection, beyond this policy of mobility for young entrepreneurs and for companies, i would also like to ask commissioner tajani a question: how does he envisage better integrating young people into industrial employment as such, and in particular all that concerns apprenticeship and alternance training, which are still very much needed in our european countries, and which are sometimes still disregarded, including in the mindsets, in a number of our countries?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate the european commission's commitment to strong support for a policy to promote small and mediumsized enterprises. as you know, we are working on a text on internationalisation, so the debate tonight was valuable in that i took in all the comments that were made and i also share many of the underlinings. we have a major problem with access to credit - access to credit, however we have spoken earlier in the debate, of the new confrontation between parliament and the commission. it is important that the late payment directive is implemented as soon as possible by the member states, which is why i have instructed the european commission's mr sme, mr daniel calleja, at the meeting tomorrow of all the ambassadors of small and mediumsized enterprises in the member states to insist that the late payment directive be transposed before the deadline. this is part of accessing credit due, then there's accessing credit hoped for. as you know, i have set up a small and medium-sized enterprise access to finance forum for small and medium-sized enterprises, and there are already positive results. we have also managed to unblock the 30 million euro that were earmarked for small and medium-sized enterprises during the crisis. i am thinking of the large €80 billion innovation package, where there will be a section dedicated to small and mediumsized enterprises, there will be the eighth framework programme, we will change - we have already discussed this with commissioner geoghegan-quinn - the rules for access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises. in addition to these 80 billion, there are 2.4 billion for the internationalisation and competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises. some things, however, we have already done: i can say that one of my first acts as commissioner for industry was to require the reach documentation to be translated into all the languages of the union. i've reduced the taxation for the registration of reach substances to almost zero, scaling from medium to small, and getting to almost 90% reduction in taxation and therefore taxation for the registration of micro-enterprises. it is true that more work is needed, and i share the concerns of those who say that the council often reduces assistance to small and mediumsized enterprises because there is a policy of budget reduction. i share these concerns and i think that the commission and parliament should insist that the council does not reduce funding for small and mediumsized enterprises, and i am referring in particular to the cips. as regards competitiveness on world markets, as you know, i have always been a staunch supporter of a level playing field, a principle different from reciprocity, a principle of balance which enables our companies to be competitive in the world and also to defend our know-how when there are interventions which we consider dangerous. i think there is a lot that can be done, also in terms of exports: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. we have a network which i think needs to be strengthened, particularly to provide information to small and mediumsized enterprises, but meps and commissioners can also, in their meetings, provide better information to citizens who are also entrepreneurs. we are also supporting them with a network, however, that goes beyond the borders of the european union. we started with a major initiative in beijing to facilitate access for small and medium-sized enterprises in china, to explore a market of extraordinary importance; the operational base we have is not just an office with an official, but the coordination, under the umbrella of the european institutions, of all the european chambers of commerce operating in beijing and china; i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to set up a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, which is a very important institution in the european community. as regards internationalisation, we have signed and are signing agreements with other countries on standards and relations between small and mediumsized enterprises. i signed the last one in chile, and we will sign another - i am also responding to mr ţicău - with brazil at the next eu-brazil summit, and another will be signed with argentina. we are also working very hard in latin america, where there is a desire for a strong relationship with european companies. the target which i have been asked to set as an objective seems to me to be an intelligent proposal, mr rinaldi is not present, but i am adopting it and we shall see if we can use it in the presentation of the text on the internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises. i hope that i have answered most of the additional questions which were put during the debate, having answered, i think, exhaustively the first five in the opening speech, and i apologize to the president for taking too long, but the subject is so interesting for our economy and there were so many questions that i could not refrain from trying to give at least an exhaustive answer.
author. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, finally a debate in this parliament on the situation of the homeless! i would first like to pay tribute to all the associations that, on the ground, work all year round to help the most vulnerable among us, the homeless. homelessness is a serious violation of human rights and human dignity. it is the most visible and sad link in the chain of bad housing. it's an unbearable injustice. it is essential to understand why people end up on the streets, in order to put in place effective prevention policies. rather than looking for ways to get these people off the streets, it is much easier to not rush them into it. when are we going to stop evictions? when will we stop speculating in real estate? when will we finally understand that growing poverty and precariousness lead to exclusion? the faces of the homeless have changed, the image of the bohemian tramp has lived on, the reality today is much more complex but much harsher. more and more young people, women, families - including migrants - and even poor workers, are homeless. homelessness comes in many forms. there are homeless people lying on the street in the winter, under cardboard boxes or in tents, in public parks, but that is just the tip of the iceberg. millions of people are living in emergency shelters, in makeshift homes, with friends and family, sleeping in cars or in unsanitary hotels. in the face of an emergency that is getting worse by the day, the associations are sounding the alarm bells. but governments have succeeded one another, and the scandal of inaction remains. it is high time that governments took responsibility. it is high time that this shameful situation was brought to an end. europe must commit itself to supporting the states in the path of fundamental values, in the path of lasting solutions to this reality, because our first duty is to protect the weakest. in the face of this unacceptable reality, we cannot continue to look the other way, just as we avoid looking at the homeless on the street. worse, the homeless are excluded from the city centers to the periphery, far from the eyes of businessmen and tourists. but just because you can't see them doesn't mean they don't exist! there's no point in hiding the problem, it has to be solved today. in a country which you know well, commissioner, homeless people are considered criminals. they are forbidden to sleep on the streets, under penalty of a fine, and the police are chasing them even in the subway stations and railway stations, where no proper services are set up to receive them. it is no longer the time for communication, for false political promises, for campaign slogans, as we see in some states. the european parliament therefore calls on you, following the european consensus conference on homelessness, to put in place an integrated strategy to end homelessness by 2020, building on the work already done. this strategy should be based on five main objectives: first, the prevention of homelessness; second, the reduction of its duration; third, the concentration of efforts on the most severe forms; fourth, the improvement of the quality of services for the homeless; finally, an adequate supply of affordable housing. this strategy must be coordinated with national and regional strategies. the results obtained in relation to indicators defined jointly at european level should be regularly reviewed. emphasis should be placed on social innovation, in particular on housing-oriented approaches as the first step in a social reintegration process. finally, adequate funding must be ensured at both european and national level. the commissioner, beyond words, therefore, has urgency. we need action now. it's a matter of political will: homelessness is not inevitable. we don't have to wait for winter to remember that people die on the streets all year long. ending homelessness is possible and i think the european parliament is showing the way.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, this is the second time in a short period of time that the european parliament has called on you to address the issue of homelessness. we did this in 2008, when the crisis had just started. we are here today in 2011, with a declaration that we drew up in 2010 and which reminds you of the urgency of dealing with this scandal within the european union. this space, which on a global scale remains a space of wealth, supposedly of civilization, and yet where homelessness is rampant in each of our cities. all the local elected representatives tell us that they are mobilized day after day to deal with this distressed population, which has been hit hard by the crisis, whether in athens, berlin, paris or helsinki. can we accept that a union based on solidarity will allow homelessness to develop here and there, which is the clearest manifestation of poverty and social exclusion? however, i remember the debate we had: should the poverty reduction objectives be integrated into the european union strategy? is this a matter for the european union? i do not want to re-open the legal debate, because the basis is there. they are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. we have taken them up as a political objective for the strategy of the european union. it is your responsibility, commissioner, and that of the college, to mobilise the tools at the disposal of the european union so that tomorrow the stability pact does not lead to the blind cutting of any possible funding of the services which help these populations, those who, on the ground, do exemplary work, those who are called social workers and whose work is today made almost impossible, as was demonstrated in france by the resignation - with a certain echo - of xavier emmanuelli, the founder of the social samu. the commission can also intervene to encourage member states not to apply the competition rule to social housing but to finance social housing so that in the future the question of homelessness ceases to be an urgent one.
madam president, 8% of europeans live in extreme poverty and cannot afford the basic necessities of a decent life. thousands of them - including a growing number of youths, women, and children - are sleeping on the streets, others in precarious and unsanitary housing. without housing, most other fundamental rights are illusory, including the right to work and to live with one's family. yes, commissioner, you have told us that the crisis has worsened the situation in the european union, which is the world's leading economic power. austerity policies hit the most vulnerable first. you have robbed us of the tools available to the european union. beyond the fine words, what concrete policies are actually being implemented by the member states, even though they are not able to provide statistics on the subject? what is worse, some member states are increasingly criminalizing poverty. when will we finally have the means to implement the charter of fundamental rights, starting with those who need it most? to begin with, this would give more credibility to all the fine speeches on human rights and social europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to give particular thanks to mr seeber and mr skylakakis for this opportunity to explain the commission’s approach regarding man-made non-co2 climate-relevant emissions. you are quite right; non-co2 gases are a significant contributor to climate change. if we wish to cut our greenhouse gas emissions substantially, we must address emissions from non-co2 gases in an effective way. i fully agree with your motion for a resolution on this point. the recent roadmap for moving to a low-carbon economy by 2050 explores cost-efficient pathways for key economic sectors in order to meet the 2050 eu objectives for greenhouse gas emissions reduction. this analysis clearly shows that the eu should reduce agricultural non-co2 emissions by 42-49% and other non-co2 emissions by 70-78% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. both gentlemen spoke about what is economically beneficial, and here these non-co2 gases come very much into the picture. as you know, the eu has already taken a number of measures to reduce such emissions. the effort sharing decision covers co2 as well as the five non-co2 gases included in the kyoto protocol. the annual binding greenhouse gas emission targets for member states will deliver a 10% reduction of emissions from the covered sectors in 2020 compared with 2005 levels. we already address hfc emissions through the regulation on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and the directive on fluorinated emissions from mobile air-conditioning. the commission will adopt a report reviewing the regulation in the coming weeks, which will show that the regulation has already contributed to the eu commitments under the kyoto protocol. moreover, if properly applied, the regulation on certain fluorinated gases (‘f-gases’) could, together with the directive on mobile air-conditioning, prevent almost half of the projected fluorinated gas emissions by 2050. even more importantly, the report shows that there are options which could contribute to further cost-effective reductions. therefore, i intend to put forward a legislative proposal in 2012. in addition to domestic action, internationally the commission has repeatedly called for global action to address the use of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs). at the meetings of the parties to the montreal protocol, the commission, as the negotiator for the european union, supports the north american and micronesian proposals to phase down global production and consumption of hfcs as a complement to mitigation action under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the commission is also fully aware of the short-term climate implications of black carbon and tropospheric ozone, particularly – as i think mr seeber mentioned – in the arctic area and in the alpine regions. the joint research centre of the european commission has played a key role in several recent science assessments, in particular in the united nations environment programme (unep) 2011 integrated assessment of black carbon and tropospheric ozone. within the eu, the commission is preparing a review of the thematic strategy on air pollution. the review will be concluded in 2013 and will address air quality matters and their interlinkages with climate change policy. black carbon and tropospheric ozone issues will be considered as part of that review. finally, in an international context, the eu is addressing pollutants like black carbon and tropospheric ozone under the convention on long range transboundary air pollution. together with other european and north american countries, we are presently negotiating binding emission targets for ozone-creating pollutants. if a successful agreement can be struck by the end of this year – and i understand from my colleague commissioner potočnik, who is responsible for these negotiations, that this outcome is within reach and there is a very good chance of achieving it – some improvements can be expected by 2020. finally, i know that unep will publish a report very soon setting out possible measures to reduce levels of black carbon in an effort to push for an international action plan for which international backing can be secured at rio+20 in brazil next june. needless to say, europe will push very hard for that to materialise.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, politics is about thinking about tomorrow. i therefore welcome the remarkable work of my colleagues, mr seeber and mr skylakakis, who are indeed, with this resolution, anticipating environmental projects and environmental standards. we must seize every opportunity to help protect our planet, as mr seeber says. on that point, i agree with you completely. if we adopt this text, this resolution, it is to prepare us for the implementation and anticipation of measures to combat global warming. however, as mr skylakakis has said, we all agree that it is urgent to wait until the economic situation requires a delay in the implementation of new regulations that we would impose on our companies. we all agree that economic actors are suffering today and that it is essential that we do not once again impose major environmental standards on our companies. antoine de saint-exupéry said: "we do not inherit the land of our parents, we borrow it from our children". we must move in this direction: to give our children a clean planet. but we must not do so without a certain amount of wealth and without the assurance that our children will find jobs in the country. i would like to conclude by saying that anthropogenic gases are gases originally produced by man, for example, gases emitted by air conditioners. it is always very cool, even cold, in this parliament. i think that if we as a european institution were to save a little by lowering our air conditioning system, we would already be participating, without imposing constraints on our companies, unless they pollute our planet.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for months europe has been looking for lasting answers, but in the face of the attacks on the euro, initiatives have been taken. i am thinking of the first measures to clean up public finances, the positive proposal for the golden rule. i am also thinking of the establishment of a strengthened european financial stability fund or the definition of new economic governance instruments, the six-pack, on which i hope to have a final agreement before the end of the month. i am also thinking of the coordination of national budgets or this summer's proposals on the european economic governance, the financial transaction tax and tax harmonization. (the speaker interrupts because of a problem of interpretation) mr president, since the beginning of the crisis, billions of euros have been committed. our fellow citizens are indeed worried, because they do not see the end of the efforts required of them. they feel that they are filling a bottomless pit, although they are aware that this european crisis calls for a european response and not just a national one. they are questioning the ability of national and european leaders to put a lasting end to this crisis of confidence and growth. the markets remain dissatisfied, doubtful and particularly volatile, sensitive to the slightest rumor. ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the eurozone states and all the other states of the union that wish to join it to strike a blow by adopting, together and at the same time, strong measures to put an end to doubts about europe's ability to assume its responsibilities. europe, mr president of the commission and mr president of the council, must regain its credibility. europe must face up to reality and take back control of public finances, prepare for a transitional period of strict management of accounts, whether national or regional, but also incentives to save, invest in innovation, education and training. europe must proceed with a big bang which will be called a federation of the united states of europe, or simply integration. in the crisis and in any crisis, whatever it is, nothing will be the same. are we, at present, able to see our future differently? i would suggest that, on the basis of a commission proposal, the governments of the euro area and all those in the union who wish to do so, decide to tackle their debt problems in a draconian manner by taking coordinated measures, as a group, on the same day, to ensure the viability of their pension systems or to ensure effective harmonization of their taxation, in particular that of companies. by making economic governance a sudden reality, assumed by all the eurozone states, europe would be doing double damage. it would demonstrate its ability to act in the long term and would strengthen the cohesion of its citizens, who would be subject to the same rights and duties. by taking coordinated measures of budgetary discipline, while promoting the necessary growth of our economies, countries would have single or convergent rules and would give a clear and strong signal of their willingness to strengthen their integration. a word, mr president of the commission, on growth. we say every day, "growth, growth!" many people still dream of double-digit growth. our first duty is to maintain low growth and avoid deflation. the european institutions, for their part, must be more ambitious in their common policies. we need the policies we have been repeating: a trade policy, an ambitious research policy, a food safety policy, a new industrial policy, and above all a policy which makes the internal market work. we have many regulations, but in a difficult time, it remains to be seen whether they are being applied. if there are things to correct, we will correct them, but there is no need to add more in the times we are living. let us also strengthen the integration of the euro area, the heart of the european construction, to enable europe to be rebuilt. that is what our group, the epp, is calling for, aware of the responsibility of the centre-right, which is in the cockpit in times of storm. ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake in the months ahead is our credibility. true, we are under very strong attack, perhaps exaggerated in some respects. it is now up to us to show that europe has the capacity to return to the path of growth and not fall into deflation. this will also guarantee the level of employment. we must do everything possible to preserve our way of life and defend our values. it is not by a major act of integration that we will finally live up to it. we must find, my friends, among the responsible democratic political groups, a way of showing a new way and a new path to our heads of state and government, who are in a very difficult situation. that is what i am asking this parliament, the president of the commission and the president of the council for in the coming weeks: unity, a single vision for our fellow citizens for the next four or five years. that's what we need to prepare for today.
mr president, i will reply very quickly. if there is harmonization of agricultural aid in poland, there will also be some harmonization of taxation.
mr president, thank you for this debate. it's not unnecessary to take stock after the summer. there is one first point to be made. as martin schulz said, it is that the decisions of this summer seem to be leading to a government of the euro zone without democratic legitimacy. it's not a detail. we can talk about it later. i would like to say a word about the six-pack, of which i am one of the rapporteurs. we're told we have to take responsibility. that's good! but what are our responsibilities? is it better to accept a compromise which is not bad but has real weaknesses or is it better to keep saying that it is not enough? i have a real problem of conscience if we continue to support - as guy verhofstadt said - the attitude of governments who want to control the implementation of the rules. once the rule is adopted, it must be implemented under the responsibility of the commission. that is why we appreciated the six-pack and the reversed qualified majority that you proposed. a word for mr. rostowski, who seems to like french history. when i see the council's proposals, i do not think of 1792. i am reminded of what mr talleyrand said about emigrants in 1820: they have learned nothing, they have forgotten nothing. clearly, some have learned nothing from the crisis, they have not forgotten the follies of the fouchet plan of the 1960s and they still believe that it is through the cooperation of governments that we will convince third parties and the markets that europe exists. this is not our design!
mr barroso, i would like to ask you a question. would you be willing to listen to it, if that's all right with you? i'm not gonna make a big speech. my question is specific: do you know how much - according to the greek government itself - greek money is in switzerland and not taxed in greece? two hundred billion euros, the equivalent of greece's annual gdp, the equivalent of two thirds of greek debt! i am still waiting for your initiative to impose a tax on this money that has escaped the greek tax. i also expect a strong initiative from the greek socialist government on this matter. it would have zero macroeconomic impact on greece, since that money has already gone elsewhere, but it would be socially perfectly fair. but to take this initiative, the greek government needs europe. you're going to tell me that it's complicated, but there's a very simple example: the united states, which fights every day to get swiss banking secrecy lifted from its own citizens, and is winning battles. in the meantime, we either do nothing or we do things in a totally dispersed and counterproductive way, as the united kingdom and germany have just done by signing an agreement with switzerland which limits the european union's capacity to act. you have to take the initiative. 200 billion euros is a very large sum! we cannot ask the european taxpayers to show solidarity if the rich greeks are not showing solidarity either.
mr president, mr president, mr minister, the present uncertainty about the european response to the crisis is particularly damaging, first of all for the countries concerned, but also for the markets, whose pressure is becoming unbearable and dangerous. i shall deal with a purely technical question on this point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. when a company is in default, there are exceptional rules to protect it. on the other hand, there is no rule for the states, because it has long been accepted that the states could not be in default. the example of greece shows that the constant pressure on the state does not allow the planned measures to be implemented effectively. the european union must therefore determine, within the framework of the euro area, which rules are to prevail. membership of the eurozone creates an original and ambiguous situation for each country: it is no longer the issuer of its own currency, but its financial policy is still poorly coordinated with that of other countries. the first imperative is of course the rapid completion of the mechanism for the coordination of economic policies and the european stability mechanism, but the rules must also be defined. the aim would be to introduce a system requiring in the case of countries with contracts with the european union or the imf the freezing of clauses of early call-off, of the expiry of terms or of credit events which, today, prevent a real recovery. the establishment of such a mechanism would ensure both transparency and credibility.
mr president, mr barroso, i see you and yet i often wonder where you are! where were you on july 21st? you have an ability to have a speech that is extraordinarily tailored to your audience, which you have again demonstrated today. why did you not give that speech on 21 july? as the armed arm of the community method, which we defend tirelessly in this european parliament, what are you doing to ensure that the union exercises this negotiating capacity vis-à-vis switzerland? what are you doing when some of the member states with the strongest bargaining power with switzerland are discrediting the union as a whole by negotiating bilaterally? would you be in a position to negotiate, with the same force as the americans, to allow the greeks to recover the money that the germans reproach them with not knowing how to recover? finally, as regards eurobonds, we do not expect you to accept this proposal, which we have been advocating for so many years and which is the reverse of the coin of joint and several liability. it is necessary to add to this a dimension of democracy and social progress. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i believe that the bankruptcy of one member of the euro zone would in fact lead to the bankruptcy of the whole of europe, and that it would have incalculable consequences and an exorbitant cost, not only in financial terms but also in economic terms, in terms of employment and in political terms. so this is not an option, and we have to make that clear here. the only solution is to help greece: first by keeping our commitments, then by giving it time, then by helping it to carry out and complete the structural reforms it needs and, finally, by giving and guaranteeing prospects to its people. only then, i believe, will greece get back on its feet. but the crisis of confidence in the euro has reached such a level that it is obvious that we cannot stop there. it will be necessary to implement the euro-bonds that have been discussed for months now, to pool part of the debt of the euro-zone member states up to 60% of gdp, to make progress on the question of economic governance, but also on the question of political governance, which, in the crisis, has been largely inadequate.
in writing. the eurozone crisis is reaching its climax in a europe governed by the far right. but it is these governments, each more frivolous and selfish than the next, that demand multiple guarantees, promises, sanctions for "bad students", before agreeing to grant a single ounce of solidarity. by dragging its feet on the implementation of the aid plans for greece, the reluctant coalition is simply turning what should be a strong solidarity movement into a waste of public money towards a bottomless pit. the aid granted to the drop-in account is of no use to our greek partner, who is still under fire from speculative attacks. do we want to let the patient die while we quarantine him? but until what? do we do the same tomorrow with italy, ireland or spain showing the same symptoms? the epidemic is being spread by the banks, since it is to them that the states are indebted, let us stop lying to ourselves: breaking up the eurozone and the european union will not save anyone from a general economic collapse. what we need is to get back to investing in sustainable growth, but when will this message be heard?
in writing. some argue that greece's exit would cure all the ills of the eurozone. but they're wrong. beyond the domino effect, this event would send the world the dramatic message that europe would no longer be able to undertake its own project of economic unification. let us not give in to the rush, nor to the demagogy of the surrounding world. the idea of being withdrawn has always been a bad one. unfortunately, history has shown us that, and that is why we wanted to build europe. there is only one remedy for the crisis: the community method. commission, member states and parliament: we have all shown the will to come together. today is the time for concerted action. we have a common currency, let us now set up a genuine economic government and bring our fiscal policies closer together, as germany and france are proposing. above all, let us not forget that we are acting for the people of europe. to clean up our finances is to invest in innovation and research for the long term to create growth and jobs. we must explain this to our fellow citizens who, as they observe the reforms under way, are rightly asking questions about their future.
in writing. it would be an illusion to hide it: the crisis we are going through is serious. the daily turbulence in the governments, stock exchanges and banks portends the worst if europe does not react immediately. what are the reasons for this crisis? first, there is a structural flaw: how can the long-term stability of a single currency be ensured without the establishment of genuine budgetary coordination? the old stability pact was weak and out of touch with reality. secondly, there is a cyclical reason: states have long been - and even more so since the 2008 crisis - showing approximations in the management of their public expenditure, which must be stopped. finally, the crisis has been aggravated by the political selfishness of certain states, which are acting in a dispersed manner according to their short-term interests and the opinion polls of the moment. france and germany have proposed solutions. they are necessary, but they will not be sufficient. the answer must come from europe itself. will the eu dare to take a 'step into the unknown', a genuine integration where everyone's solidarity for the growth of all is expressed? if the euro collapses, trust in the european project will collapse with it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, when there is a massacre, first of all, most of us don't know what to say. we feel sad, we feel scared, and then, over time, we start to think. this attack in norway was aimed at young people, social democrats, who were defending a very strong idea of multicultural solidarity, young people who had gathered around this idea. there were also young norwegians of kurdish origin, from all backgrounds, who were in the image of those multicultural societies that exist in europe. some politicians have been telling us for some time that the multicultural society has failed. i've always wondered what that meant. does that mean that you are going to expel all those who are not real norwegians, real finns, real dutch, real french, real swedes, real italians, real i don't know what? where are you going to send them? it is in this discourse, in these words, that this hatred develops: we do not take reality as our reality. when we claim to defend european reality, european values and european citizens, we are defending the multicultural identity of europe today. because that is the european reality, and it is against this idea that this massacre took place. when a french member of this parliament dares to say that the problem in norway was not the massacre but the naivety of the norwegian government, which accepts a multicultural society, this parliament must say that mr le pen, for having said those words, is a disgrace to this parliament. (applause from the centre and the right) and i would like to say to all true europeans: if we allow these vile phrases to be heard in our speeches, if we allow the idea to be heard that europe today cannot be and will not be a multicultural society, then we are all making the bed together of those who commit the most horrible acts. yes, there is intellectual responsibility when something happens, because we create a climate - as guy verhofstadt said - in which crazy people, crazy people can then act in this way. getting together for norway also means thinking about what we do and say to each other. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been personally accused by a colleague of making statements about the norwegian massacre. i would like to say that these are lies. i have made a political judgment on norwegian policy by deploring the naivety of the norwegian government, which has failed to fulfil its security obligations. the state is responsible for defending its citizens. there wasn't a single policeman on the island.
mr president, i have been accused by the pedophile cohn-bendit and i have the right to respond. i have the right to remind you that he was charged here with harbouring a red army terrorist and supporting the cambodians. i have the right to defend my honor. you may be the president of this house, but i'm the vice dean.
you cut my wire. i haven't made my statement. i have the right to defend myself when my honor is attacked, that's the least of it. do you give me the floor? i said that the norwegian government was naive because it had not taken any security measures, both on the island and afterwards. it took the police an hour and a half to get to the crime scene. it seems to me normal for a member of the european parliament to express his opinion on the attitude of a government which is part of europe.
you don't give me a chance to speak, it's like a bolshevik party here!
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the austrian workers, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the austrian workers, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the dutch workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. energy is at the heart of human activities. it is essential that it is accessible at a reasonable price and that there is no abuse of the market. i therefore voted in favour of this draft regulation because it will ensure greater transparency in the wholesale energy market and thus greater price stability for the benefit of final consumers.
in writing. the energy market integrity and transparency regulation aims to outlaw market abuse by requiring players to provide insider information to regulatory agencies. this regulation is a major step forward in the regulation and transparency of energy markets. it has the dual advantage of being limited to wholesale energy markets and of being a tool against price volatility, in order to guarantee financial security to the consumer.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will ensure greater transparency in energy market transactions within the european union. this new regulation of wholesale electricity and gas markets should help to strengthen confidence between the various players and the member states of the european union by establishing a european control framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the integrity and transparency of the energy market. it sets out new rules to put an end to abusive practices in the wholesale energy market, including giving more powers of control and sanctions to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acre), which was set up in 2009. at a time when the completion of the internal market in gas and electricity is one of the main objectives of european energy policy and when research and investment are being directed towards the development of transeuropean energy networks, it is more than necessary that this new market be subject to rules to protect consumers. energy exchanges between member states are also expected to increase in the coming years. the research currently being carried out in the north sea to create a network capable of transporting offshore wind energy is just one example of what is needed for the future. it is therefore desirable to provide an adequate legislative framework for this new market to allow it to develop and flourish properly within a well-established legal framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the remit regulation to combat market abuse in the energy sector. trade in wholesale energy will now be independently controlled throughout the european union. the text provides for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators to monitor the electricity and gas markets in cooperation with the national regulatory authorities. the regulation will prohibit the unlawful use of inside information and market manipulation practices. as regards sanctions, we wanted to take account of the 'damage caused to consumers'. we have also called for the creation of a european register of energy operators.
in writing. this report provides for the establishment of an internal energy market based entirely on free and undistorted competition. it delivers energy resources to the law of profit. the citizens will pay the bill again and the ecosystem will suffer. what europe needs is a public energy hub.
in writing. competition must be free and not distorted! this rule, which is a true pillar of european law, not only creates a form of emulation between private players, which is a guarantee of innovation and productivity, but also a wall protecting consumers from possible cartels or abuse of a dominant position. all contracts must be subject to this basic rule. it is therefore only natural that i should have voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to put an end to abusive practices in the wholesale energy market which would be to the detriment of consumers. among the measures adopted, i would particularly like to mention the firm condemnation of insider trading: the unlawful use of inside information and market manipulation practices must be sanctioned by the national authorities and commensurate with the damage suffered by consumers. i welcome the fact that wholesale energy trade is now independently monitored throughout the european union and hope that the commission will be able to give the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) the means to carry out its monitoring and investigation function in respect of infringements of the regulation.
in writing. the lisbon treaty introduced several new legal bases to facilitate the implementation, application and enforcement of eu law. this report focuses on the commission's fundamental role in initiating infringement procedures against member states which have failed to comply with an obligation under the treaty. it called on the commission to propose a 'code of procedure' in this area, regretting the current lack of transparency. it recalled the need to draw up and publish correlation tables so that the commission could monitor transposition measures in all member states. i support these demands and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the report by eva lichtenberger on the monitoring of the application of community law. it is clear that without proper transposition there can be no effectiveness of union legislation. yet in 2009, there were still close to 3000 complaints and infringement cases, and the member states were still lagging behind in transposing directives in more than half of the cases! i am also concerned about the high number of infringements in the areas of recognition of professional qualifications, services and public procurement. however, i am not one of those who constantly invoke the bad faith of the member states in this matter: i see in this bad result more of a call for a better clarification of the legal framework applicable in these areas in order to help the national authorities in the understanding and the implementation process. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the importance of the solvit network and of the usefulness of initiatives such as 'eu pilot' and the 'europe is yours' internet portal, which provide practical information on the application of community law in the single market.
in writing. the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents is provided for in article 15 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european transparency initiative, the adoption of a parliamentary resolution in april 2006 and the adoption of the aarhus convention (on access to documents containing environmental information) have forced the commission to propose an amendment to the existing environmental regulation to extend its scope to other eu bodies and agencies. i consider that access for citizens to the work of the eu institutions, bodies and agencies is not a side issue. it is fundamental to the democratic legitimacy of the eu. i therefore supported this report, which expands on the commission's original proposals.
in writing. i supported this report, which recalls that since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the obligation to grant access to eu documents has been imposed on the european parliament, the council and the commission, as well as on the eeas. this is in line with the increased focus on the relationship between citizens and the eu administration, for greater transparency. however, resistance remains strong in some member states to access to national information and documents exchanged in the legislative process, to the refusal of access to documents relating to international agreements, or to the omission of the names of member states in the conclusions of deliberations. this secrecy is unacceptable! we must rely on the arguments of the ecj in its turco judgment, according to which transparency allows 'to guarantee greater legitimacy, efficiency and accountability of the administration towards the citizens in a democratic system'. we have everything to gain from transparency. that is why i support the principle of access to documents, whereby refusal should remain a duly justified exception.
in writing. this report calls for parliamentarians and citizens to be kept informed of decisions taken at european level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i hope the same applies to the european parliament. it also called on the member states to be transparent in transposing eu legislation into national law. it is regrettable that we should have to make such requests in a union which claims to be democratic. i vote for and i denounce the opacity of the european union.
in writing. access to documents is provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union through article 15 which states that 'every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state has a right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union'. the sargentini report reviews annually the application of this right, which governs the exercise of citizens' right of access to documents of the eu institutions. i voted in favour of this report because it follows a policy of ensuring access to documents and transparency during the legislative process, where this is necessary and understandable to the public.
in writing. the aim of this resolution is to amend the european parliament's rules of procedure in order to define identical conditions for the hearings of all candidates for the posts of european commissioner and to ensure that they allow the best possible expression of the views of meps. i supported this report because it reinforces the extremely important democratic exercise of the hearings, which, as we will recall, allow the european parliament, at the beginning of each parliamentary term, to reject candidates who do not correspond to the mission of european commissioner.
in writing. in many areas, the european parliament is still the eternal second, and the appointment of new european commissioners is a good example. that is why, despite this minor role provided for in the treaties, we as representatives of the peoples of europe must do our utmost to check the quality of the candidates chosen by the member states and presented in a single package, in order to go beyond a mere formal approval of the college as a whole. these hearings are therefore a unique opportunity to ascertain the quality of the commissioners-designate. that is why i have supported the proposals which have been put forward in order to organise them as well as possible and to give the elected representatives as many opportunities as possible to test whether the candidates actually meet the requirements for the portfolio which will be allocated to them. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. the commissioners have the legislative powers that should be those of the european parliament. their election should be the subject of a real debate and an individual election. this text does not make this minimum requirement. it restricts the possibilities for debate. i vote against it.
in writing. the doha round, launched in 2001 to open up new trade prospects and address current imbalances in the trading system, has been at a standstill since 2008. the 8th ministerial conference of the wto (world trade organisation) will meet in december 2011 to try to conclude this "doha round". we hope that it will at least achieve results in favour of the least developed countries. the world trade organization must establish international rules to limit food price fluctuations and thus ensure greater food security. it also needs to introduce simpler and more transparent preferential rules of origin for imports from the least developed countries (ldcs). if wto members fail to agree on a contribution to ambitious and balanced global development, to economic growth and to the eradication of poverty worldwide, then a major reform of the wto will be required. only a regulated and fair global trading system will put trade at the service of sustainable development.
in writing. since 2001, the doha round of negotiations in the wto has been designed to rebalance the rules of global trade in favour of developing countries. these negotiations have since stalled. the obstacles are many and the responsibilities are shared, but it is the developing countries that are most affected by the failure of the negotiations. all efforts must be made to achieve this, but the negotiations must take greater account of the concerns expressed, including in developing countries, and in particular of the situation of the fragile industrial and agricultural sectors, for which the priority must be food security for the population. public services must be able to remain regulated by each country in the public interest and not liberalized in the context of forced bargaining unrelated to social needs. in these circumstances, the conclusion of the doha round is desirable and necessary. the proliferation of bilateral agreements such as those currently being negotiated will not make it possible to establish clear and fair rules. multilateralism remains the best framework for ensuring fair trade that contributes to the sustainable development of all continents.
in writing. this report is an ode to the fight against all forms of protectionism. it is a lesson to emerging countries and a threat to anyone who dares to restrict their exports of natural resources. it is a crude and brutal imperialism. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the positive aspects of this round of negotiations, in particular its developing country approach. it also puts forward some ideas which i think should be promoted more in this cycle: food security, access to green goods and technologies, or the extension of the european initiative 'everything but arms' to other countries. above all, while recalling our commitment to multilateralism, it recognises the difficulties involved. the doha round negotiations have stalled and wto members must now work on a 'post-doha' approach. they must reassess the level of development of the countries taking part in the negotiations and give them their proper place and responsibilities. they must also commit to including social and environmental standards in the negotiations, because they are the basis of current dumping. a new mandate, drawing all the useful lessons from the previous one, must be drawn up now, with a view to a rapid reactivation of the multilateral trade negotiations.
in writing. the 8th wto ministerial conference will be held in geneva from 15 to 17 december 2011. however, the doha round, which was launched in 2001 to review the rules of global trade, has reached an impasse. beyond technical agreements, it is essential to look at the substance. what is the wto for? what interests does it defend? in this resolution, parliament wishes to stress the importance of the wto and the doha round, and above all their objectives: to ensure better management of globalisation, a fairer sharing of its benefits and more balanced economic growth. in addition, they must help to address new global challenges in which trade plays a role, such as food security, energy, sustainable development and trade assistance. world trade will be balanced if, and only if, the more developed states make the necessary efforts to promote the integration of the least developed countries (ldcs). nevertheless, europe must be fair without being naive: ultraliberalism is living its last moments with the crisis. we must return to an approach that protects our economy and our values, while ensuring the development and prosperity of others.
in writing. the rules of procedure of the european parliament provide that the committee on petitions shall inform parliament annually of the results of its deliberations and actions. for the year 2010, the european parliament registered 1655 petitions, which represents a decrease of 14% compared to 1924 petitions in 2009. the environment remains the petitioners' main concern, followed by fundamental rights, the internal market and justice. the germans remain the most active petitioners, followed by the spanish and the italians. petitions are increasingly being sent via the internet, with 63.2% of petitions received in 2010. i for my part welcome the fact that the treaty of lisbon introduced the possibility of a citizens' initiative and i continue to follow the work of the committee on petitions, whose annual activity report i have approved.
in writing. as a full member of the committee on petitions, i voted in favour of my committee's 2010 annual report. it's about defending his role. in 2010, the committee on petitions received 1 655 petitions from european citizens. the environment remains one of their main concerns. in addition to its success, other important factors must be taken into account. it is the only committee to organise hearings of european citizens at each of its meetings. it enjoys undeniable expertise and legitimacy in parliament through its direct relationship with the citizen. my colleagues and i have dealt with painful cases, such as the expropriation of thousands of people in spain because of the spanish coastal law or cross-border divorces. the committee on petitions represents the europe that it should be: "a community that listens to the problems of its citizens and works together to find solutions and protect them". unfortunately, the means of action and the means of evaluation are still limited. this is because of the lack of cooperation from the member states and certain public authorities. the most important thing is that citizens continue to have confidence in our institution and do not hesitate to continue to ask for help.
in writing. i voted for the annual report of the committee on petitions. the right to petition is a central democratic instrument which allows every european citizen to address the european parliament directly to find a solution to his or her individual problems, to draw attention to failing european policies, or to ask the european union to intervene in a specific area. once again this report shows us the particular interest of european citizens in environmental issues and the need to become more involved in the environment. the report also points to the lack of transparency regarding petitions: it is essential that each petition received is published online as the petitioner has not expressed disagreement, so that every citizen can be informed about the petitions filed and join them if they wish. it also recalled that the committee on petitions was dependent on the cooperation of the other institutions: it was essential that the council cooperate even more closely with the committee on petitions. i would like to support the committee on petitions in its democratic work by voting for it.
in writing. the legitimacy of the european project is based on citizens' support. this accession is only possible if citizens have the opportunity to express themselves, to express their concerns and to enforce their rights with the institutions. i welcome the work of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in this respect. with the creation of the citizens' initiative by the treaty of lisbon, this fundamental right has been strengthened. it must be supported and disseminated, since the committee on petitions is best placed to follow up petitions. but in order to be as effective as possible, to respond as best as possible to the citizens, i think that joint, transparent work between the european commission, the member states and the european parliament is essential. finally, the participation of all depends on the clarity and accessibility of the procedure. in this sense, a single window for petitions should certainly be set up. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. in these times of financial and budgetary crisis, it is necessary to stabilise our banks and budgets, but it is not enough: it seems to me that the balance with the consideration of the needs of the most vulnerable in our societies is not ensured, far from it! at a time when we still have no certainty about the survival of the programme of aid for the most deprived for the years to come, this resolution, supported by a very large majority in parliament, on the european union's strategy for the homeless, is a reminder that poverty and social exclusion affect millions of people in europe and that it is unthinkable to leave them out of the picture. it calls more specifically for a focus on housing policies in the european union. ensuring decent housing for all, meeting basic needs and access to quality services remain urgent and daily challenges.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on a european strategy to help the homeless. while member states are trying to redress the wrongs of the financial markets, very little is being done to prevent or to lift citizens out of the abyss of homelessness. this resolution is a wake-up call! states must look at the case of the homeless. they are asked to collect information about these people to better meet their needs and are encouraged to exchange information to respond in a supportive manner. monitoring progress at european level in each member state will enable us to have a global view of the problem in order to move towards a europe where every citizen has a roof over his head. a homeless citizen is a citizen without rights. housing is absolutely essential for the exercise of a whole range of other rights, including civil and social rights. the resolution sets the goal of ending homelessness by 2015. that is very good, but now the states must give themselves the means to win this bet! it is time to go beyond declarations, as this resolution calls for.
in writing. 17% of the eu population lives below the poverty line; 8% of europeans live in extreme material deprivation; 3 million people, including a growing number of young people, families and children, are homeless. this situation is unacceptable and intolerable in the light of the values we defend in the eu, in the light of fundamental rights, in the light of respect for and dignity of persons. although last year was designated as the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion', the phenomenon continues and poverty is growing at an alarming rate. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the member states to make progress and put an end to homelessness by 2015. it must now be followed by a genuine commitment: governments must now act. our resolution also calls for a genuine european strategy to help the homeless, because very little is being done at present to prevent citizens from falling into homelessness or to help them to get out of it. the eu can do more (especially not to reduce the budget of the european programme for aid to the most deprived)!
in writing. following the adoption by the european parliament of a written declaration in favour of an eu homelessness strategy in december 2010, the vote on this resolution will only reinforce our message of firmness and urgency to the commission and the member states in favour of a european strategy against homelessness, the clearest manifestation of poverty and social exclusion. we have a duty to ensure a dignified life for all citizens, no matter who they are. social policies can no longer be put on the back burner, behind policies of budgetary austerity, which are already in full swing. we must use all the tools at the disposal of the european union so that tomorrow the stability pact does not lead to the blind cutting of any possible funding for services which help these populations. we must also encourage the member states not to apply the competition rule to social housing but to finance social housing so that the problem of homelessness will no longer be an urgent one in the future.
in writing. while 2010 has been designated as the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion', the phenomenon of homelessness continues to affect all european countries, reaching alarming proportions in some states. the european union has committed itself, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy, to reducing by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020. this is clearly a priority objective and the concerns related to the debt crisis must not obscure this phenomenon. the fight against homelessness requires concrete and ambitious measures. i hope that the member states of the european union will really empower themselves to fight poverty and social exclusion by implementing a comprehensive strategy that deals with all aspects of homelessness (housing, support, coordination of actions and actors on the ground). that is why i welcome the adoption of the resolution on an eu strategy for the homeless. at a time of sluggish economic growth and financial markets, this resolution is a way of refocusing the debate on the human dimension of the crisis and sending a strong political message to the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on a european strategy for the homeless. we want a european strategy to put an end to the situation of the homeless. when we know that the life expectancy of a long-term homeless person is only five years in an urban area, we understand the urgency of putting an end to this situation in europe. the text proposes that the european commission and the member states monitor the progress of national and regional strategies and report on progress achieved through half-yearly or annual reports. to deal more effectively with this situation, to gather reliable information and to work together on this issue, member states should agree on a common definition and typology of housing-related exclusion.
in writing. the fact that there are homeless people today is unacceptable in the world's leading economic power. the report rightly points to this when it denounces "an unacceptable violation of human rights". it called on the member states to put an end to this situation by 2015 and on the european union to help them do so by putting in place an ambitious strategy, and not just monitoring the results of the states. all these proposals i share. it is a pity that the framework of the europe 2020 strategy, which is the text of which is claimed, puts precariousness at the heart of the european system and inevitably leads to an increase in the number of homeless people. i am voting for this text to encourage the crucial demand to combat the most widespread precariousness.
in writing. 2010 has been declared the european year for combating exclusion. the european union decided that the homeless problem should be solved by 2015. yet we are far from it... according to caritas, as we approach the dawn of 2012, 3 million europeans will be homeless. the european union must give itself the means to achieve its ambitions! that is why i support the european parliament's resolution on a european union strategy for the homeless in the vote in plenary. the text calls on the council to consider the development of an eu strategy for the homeless and on the commission to set up a working group to consider the content of this strategy. it also urged member states to make progress towards ending the situation of homelessness by 2015. to this end, it would be valuable to draw up half-yearly or annual reports on progress. the areas of concern should cover reducing the time spent by homeless people without accommodation, but also the quality of services for homeless people, or access to affordable housing.
in writing. parliament is today urging the member states and the commission to develop real strategies for the homeless and i welcome this. according to some reports, 3 million europeans are homeless. however, we do not have a harmonised study of this sad phenomenon, and despite the good intentions expressed in the eu 2020 strategy (to reduce the poverty rate by 25% by 2020) and during the european year for combating exclusion in 2010, the situation is only getting worse. the crisis and the migratory pressures generated by the arab spring force us to move beyond the stage of reflection, to actually act against these injustices. europe can do much and above all do better: it can impose a uniform framework for analysing poverty and homelessness, develop the progress programme which allows the exchange of experience and the experimentation of new initiatives and facilitates micro-credit. in addition, the current system, which makes projects concerning housing for marginalised communities eligible for erdf support, deserves to be promoted and extended. finally, europe must clarify its regulations on social services of general interest, in particular social housing and emergency shelters for the most deprived.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european commission to adopt a comprehensive approach to combating climate change, i.e. not to forget black carbon, hfcs, fluorinated gases, etc. in its fight against climate change, as these gases also have an effect on the climate. i have, however, spoken in the plenary to remind you of two essential points: firstly, yes, we must prepare ourselves to take action against these gases, which have consequences similar to those of co2 on the climate, and secondly, no, the time has not yet come to act on this issue: it is essential to give our industry a chance to breathe and to adapt! i think this resolution is an interesting sign of the european parliament's determination to address the international community on climate issues: more than ever, especially on environmental issues, governance is planning...
in writing. states must accelerate their efforts to combat global warming and further reduce their emissions of fluorinated gases, used in refrigerators and air conditioning systems, among other things. the policy to combat global warming is mainly focused on carbon dioxide. however, taking stricter measures against other greenhouse gases would be effective and inexpensive. targeting emissions of hfcs is profitable because they can be reduced at a cost of 5 to 10 cents per tonne compared to 13 euros per tonne for carbon dioxide. the european commission also needs to tackle 'carbon black' (small particles of carbon found in soot), including through legislation on car emissions. carbon black has a significant impact on global warming by absorbing heat from the sun and accelerating the melting of snow and ice.
in writing. rapid and coordinated action is essential to tackle global warming. co2 is not the only cause of global warming. greenhouse gases such as carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox) and methane also contribute. we need to support innovation in our environmentally responsible industries. we also need to put pressure on our business partners to take their responsibilities, as we do - not to do it alone!
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about libya, syria and the middle east, because i think that everything is a bit mixed up at the moment. the situation in libya is actually very simple for the european union. the european union reacted well after hesitating: the european parliament - as was said earlier - still pushed for recognition, which was good. today we have to continue to have a very open and very sincere debate with the new transitional government that is going to be appointed, because it is true that the problem today - and it is the same in egypt and tunisia - is what will the constitution of libya be tomorrow? it's a very difficult problem. i believe that we cannot impose the concept of our democracies, but at the same time it is clear that the european union can play a positive role, through economic aid, investment, and aid, not ideological, but technical, to begin to rebuild a state that does not exist. it is true that political parties do not exist. we are in a political desert: there are small groups, individuals and there are warriors. how do you civilize warriors? this is where the european union, in my view, must exert its influence: it is the civilization of the post-war period. it's hard, it's true. it's like that in every country. how do we get the guns back? how can we reorganise society around a democratic functioning? sooner or later this parliament, the commission and the council will have to have a thorough discussion about the failure of our countries and our policies over the last five years, the failure of our relations, our associations with dictatorships. sooner or later we must learn from what we have done and establish our responsibility towards those countries. as regards syria, i think that parliament must go further in terms of sanctions. in my opinion, the game in syria is played in aleppo. those who do business in the world and not just in oil know that they have no future with assad. that is why we must go further in terms of sanctions. we are in a situation that is somewhat similar to the situation in south africa: business circles must understand that their future can no longer be with assad, who will get away with it one way or another. this is aleppo. that is why we need oil sanctions and why we need to ensure that european companies cannot continue to do business in syria today. i'm done with the middle east. mrs ashton will try to persuade the palestinians not to seek recognition of their state at the united nations. this is a great responsibility. to all those who say this to the palestinians, you must ask and tell us, here : what is the solution? don't go to them and talk about negotiations, because right now, there are no negotiations: israel doesn't negotiate. we must be careful, because in the next two years - maybe in six months or a year - we may see a reversal in the palestinian territories. the palestinian authority may put the key under the door and hand it to the israelis, saying, "it's yours! all of this is israel! call it israel and palestine!" then they'll start a one man, one vote fight, and israel won't be able to accept it because the majority will be palestinian and they'll have to create an apartheid state. we will then be forced to decide on sanctions against israel. the future is not terrible! in taking the responsibility today to say to the palestinians: "wait and see!", we must say to them: "see what?". this is what we've been seeing for months. today, no matter how hard mr. obama tries, no one is able to get the israelis back on the negotiating path. as long as israel has mr lieberman as its foreign minister, i don't see what the palestinians can hope for.
madam president, i hope that the resolution on libya which we are voting on tomorrow, and which is largely unanimous, will be as relevant as the one we voted on here six months ago, most of whose provisions have proved to be quite correct. the condemnation and sanction of the gaddafi regime, the implementation of the principle of the responsibility to protect civilians, if necessary by the use of military force, the recognition of the legitimacy of the national transitional council - all these provisions were voted on here before they were even discussed in the european council or applied by the member states. they have been the backbone of the action of the international community. it is appropriate to pay tribute to all the countries, and particularly to the european countries - and there are many of them - which have made a resolute commitment, diplomatically and militarily, to assist the libyan people in their quest for freedom. let me also - and this is not superfluous - pay tribute to the french pilots who, on 19 march, by destroying gaddafi's columns heading towards benghazi, prevented that city from having its name added to the list of cities with a sinister memory for the european conscience, such as vukovar or srebrenica. six months later, we must of course guard against excessive enthusiasm, first because although gaddafi's reign is over, the conflict is not, and second because the challenges of the transition that is beginning are immense and far from overcome. the european union must therefore play a major role in this delicate phase without delay. we must, together with other international actors, quickly offer assistance and support that goes beyond the humanitarian effort already made and that will have to focus primarily on supporting civil movements, setting up institutions and structuring the security sector. this important effort must be based first and foremost on a clear principle: the libyans themselves must lead this transition, and no one, even with the best intentions in the world, should substitute themselves for the sovereign aspirations of the libyan people.
madam president, the impact of the arab spring continues to reverberate through all areas of our foreign policy. it is our responsibility to address the challenges it poses. today, the great hope born of the democratic demands in tunisia, egypt and libya must be converted into concrete projects of shared development. the first priorities have already been identified: humanitarian aid, security cooperation, economic support and institutional support. we must now move on to implementation. europe can rely on the two instruments at its disposal to accompany this development: the european neighbourhood policy and the parliament of the union for the mediterranean. as such, it is necessary to strengthen these policies, in particular the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument's crossborder cooperation component! this strand makes it possible to finance concrete projects aimed at promoting investment, social cohesion, the environment or mobility around the mediterranean. it is particularly important to encourage the creation of networks of local and regional authorities which, by exchanging ideas and working together, can respond pragmatically to the needs of the field and enable citizens to experience in a concrete way the help that the european union can provide them.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, six months after its resolution calling for the departure of gaddafi, i am pleased that our parliament is debating a text outlining the future of libya free of this insane dictator. the eu, and especially france, have demonstrated their credibility on the international stage and proved that when their values are attacked, they can restore the rule of law and protect the target populations from ignoble attacks. the process is not yet over, because if the military phase is in its final moments, the hardest part still remains to be done: to help a wounded population, to enable it to return to a normal life, to restore security and to rebuild the country, its infrastructure, its institutions. in this uncertain process, the eu must stand by the new libya, but above all it must listen to the legitimate demands of the libyan people and support them in becoming reliable partners across the mediterranean. i would also like to pay tribute to the soldiers of the coalition who, under the auspices of the un, have supported the libyan fighters in their quest for freedom. it is now up to the libyans to lead their transition, to take their destiny into their own hands. the union must give them its confidence and support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of israeli settlement activity in palestine has led to a deadlock in the peace negotiations and has led the palestinians to ask for membership of the un, after having established credible political and economic institutions. europe is procrastinating when it should be taking an independent stand and asserting itself as an actor on the international stage. according to a very recent poll, the majority of french, german and british citizens believe that the palestinians have a right to a state which should be admitted to the un right now. we are representing the citizens of europe. the democratic awakening of the arab world creates a new context, which could help to revive the peace process. the aspirations of young people are the same in tunis, cairo, ramallah and gaza. if we abandon the palestinians, the despair could spark another intifada, for which we would be responsible. this is indeed a historic opportunity for the european union, which must include the recognition of the palestinian state in its policy of support for the arab spring, rather than exerting pressure on the palestinian authority to force it to renounce its full state status at the un, rather than acting on the israeli government to finally agree to respect international law.
mr president, i had raised my blue card earlier, but you did not see it. i could have asked mr provera the same question as i am asking mrs ries, since they both used the same term several times, namely the term 'unilateral'. i would like them to explain to me what they mean by that and also tell me how they define the construction by israel of hundreds of kilometers of wall and hundreds and hundreds of houses in the settlements. i would like to know how they can talk about unilateralism when we know that this initiative to recognize the state of palestine is supported by 130 or 140 states. i admit i need a definition of the vocabulary.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european commission is of course deeply concerned about the food crisis in the horn of africa. the impact of the region’s worst drought in 60 years is being felt most severely in southern somalia, north and eastern kenya, and in the south-eastern pasturelands of ethiopia. the drought has led to livestock losses and crop failures, which have affected the livelihoods of millions of people. the situation is made worse by insecurity, conflict in somalia and high food prices. altogether, we are looking at the most severe humanitarian emergency in the world today. more than 12 million people in the horn of africa have already been affected and this number continues to grow as the crisis deepens. with below normal rains forecast for the coming months, food insecurity is likely to persist into the next year. last week, famine conditions spread to a sixth region in somalia. child malnutrition is at alarming levels, both in southern somalia and among refugees arriving in kenya and ethiopia. a human tragedy is unfolding. we must act to stop it now. the eu has responded robustly to the crisis. so far this year it has provided more than eur 700 million in humanitarian assistance to the horn of africa, with eur 160 million of that sum coming from the commission’s dg echo. commissioners piebalgs and georgieva have visited the regions and engaged in dialogue with the national authorities. the immediate priorities are food assistance, nutrition, water, sanitation and health. if the crisis persists, additional humanitarian assistance will have to be mobilised. however, insecurity and restricted access mean that not all relief is getting through to the neediest southern-central regions of somalia and working to improve access conditions should be a priority.droughts are recurring phenomena, intensified by climate change. an immediate response needs to be coupled with long-term measures to prevent this type of crisis repeating itself. this is a conclusion shared by the governments of the region and the international community and it was reiterated at the african union conference on 25 august. the eu is also working more structurally in the region to improve food security and to invest in disaster risk reduction measures. plans are under way to provide recovery assistance in order to link relief to long-term development. in all countries in the region food security is a focal factor for development cooperation for the eu, the aim being to build sustainable and resilient livelihoods among farming and pastoralist communities.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented humanitarian situation in the horn of africa continues to deteriorate and is not expected to improve until at least next year. it is therefore vital that the international community redoubles its efforts to address this emergency, to meet the growing humanitarian needs and thus prevent further deterioration of the situation. to date, one billion dollars is still needed to provide life-saving aid to the region. we need to look beyond emergency aid and invest in the long term in agriculture, which is the main source of food and income in the region, and in building sustainable infrastructure. the european union must help african countries take long-term measures to ensure that drought is no longer synonymous with famine and to tackle the causes of food insecurity. i am thinking of the high food prices, the increasingly limited resources, for example, or the increased acquisition of land by foreign investors and the far too excessive speculation. the european union must play a leading role in helping poor countries to combat food insecurity. the necessary measures must be taken as soon as possible to counter excessive speculation on the commodity markets in order to stop the soaring food prices. finally, it is time for the european commission to make proposals for the creation of a financial transaction tax at the level of the european union, but above all to advocate the application of such a tax at the global level.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months tens of thousands of people have died of hunger. today, more than 13 million people are undernourished. the lucky ones survive in overcrowded refugee camps and terribly under-equipped. this famine in the horn of africa is the worst the world has seen in 60 years. we must welcome the swift action of the european union and the commission in trying to respond to these unsustainable situations. but we need to do more! short-term first. we still need a billion dollars to really get out of this humanitarian crisis, the worst of which is, unfortunately, yet to come. in the longer term, then, it is imperative that we ask ourselves what causes it so that we can better understand and prevent it. the factors behind this crisis are many. in addition to deadly conflicts, the scarcity of natural resources, and the rising prices of these resources, there are climate change, land grabbing, and speculation in commodities. we know all about the terrible effects of these phenomena on ecosystems, societies and people. so many things we should have anticipated. yet the european union and the member states continue to ignore them or respond too weakly. this has to change fast! the european union must support local actors who want to break the region out of its war spiral. it must integrate the fight against land grabbing into its development policies. the next reform of the common agricultural policy must restore agriculture to its primary role of feeding people and not speculating. the commission must do this by imposing strict price controls on agricultural raw materials. it must propose and support the rapid establishment within the un of a world market regulatory agency and the building up of physical stocks of cereals as voted for by this parliament. finally, the european union must be more ambitious in the fight against climate change, and more generous in its aid to developing countries for adaptation. neither the fight against hunger, nor the fight for development, nor the fight against climate change can be considered as adjustment variables. it's about our common future and the future of the planet.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in east africa millions of men, women and children are suffering and dying of hunger in almost general indifference, as the recent rome conference sadly showed. yet our governments have committed themselves to eradicating world hunger by 2015 by signing, no doubt in good conscience, the millennium development goals. unfortunately, the european commission sees the negotiation of economic partnership agreements with african countries, the opening up of their markets and their economic and monetary integration under wto rules as being more important than food security. is it not time to encourage and assist african regional organisations that wish to implement common agricultural policies and sustainable development plans? this question deserves to be considered, as do the consequences of extreme events due to global warming, the political situation in the backward developing countries, the role of developed countries' policies towards them, and the effectiveness of food aid organization. on these issues, the strengthening of the european union's partnership with, in particular, the fao, is becoming, in my view, essential. finally, we must also ask ourselves about the attitude of the media, which favours sensational and scandalous facts, rather than mobilizing world opinion and awareness on fundamental issues such as this one.
mr president, commissioner, we have just seen - and this has been said in many previous speeches - that no country is immune from these non-communicable diseases, which are often preventable. the commission's proposal is to set up a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) to provide training for the staff of the european commission's directorate-general for vocational training. the european union, madam commissioner, must be at the forefront of this fight in the international forums because there is now a wealth of knowledge on how to prevent these diseases. we know the strong link -- it's been said before -- between obesity and cardiovascular disease, for example, and recent studies have shown that a healthy diet can actually reduce the risk of developing alzheimer's disease. in the face of these deviations, we know that the agri-food industry is making efforts under pressure from the european union. it has an important role to play, not only by acting on european territory, but also by exporting ever healthier products to continents where populations - for example, in china or india - are beginning to suffer from these non-communicable diseases. however, there is a severe lack of indicators to monitor the extent, trends and socioeconomic impact of these diseases. i would ask you to look closely at our resolution, in which we ask that the european centre for disease prevention and control should really be able to work on statistical data on noncommunicable diseases. this work could provide an interesting basis for improving our prevention policies in this area, and not just at european level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the world radiocommunication conference may seem too technical, even arid, and yet the massive use of smartphones and the growing need for frequencies, particularly for mobile communications, require ever more delicate arbitrations. these choices cannot be left to the technicians alone. it is up to us as legislators to create the conditions for the development of these new technologies while preserving existing uses of spectrum, for example, for broadcasters. as a finite resource, the way in which spectrum policy issues are addressed will therefore be decisive for the development of future applications. the world radiocommunication conference next year, which will determine the priorities for 2015, will have to bring about a unanimous european position on the international scene. i would stress, madam commissioner, the need to coordinate the positions of the member states. this coordination is essential if europe is to become a major player in the telecommunications world. this is not just a matter of competitiveness, but above all a sector with potential for growth and job creation. we, the european socialists and social democrats, have been reassessing this message for months, and yet the potential of this sector for european recovery is being ignored. however, many synergies could be developed with other areas such as transport, space policy or research. this conference is therefore in line with all our discussions on the political agenda for radio spectrum, on the need to take stock of all uses of spectrum in order to know precisely which frequency bands can be used for new services. the thorny issue of interference, which is an additional difficulty for countries with external borders to the european union, must also be resolved. this situation reinforces the need for harmonisation and a coordinated response at union level. it seems that we are witnessing a change in the positions of the member states for whom, at the beginning of our discussions, the mere mention of the term 'harmonisation' was a deterrent. you know, commissioner, that the european parliament is working with the commission to achieve these objectives, which we have discussed at length.
madam president, i think i can give you the answer. the new arrangement is that if you touch the button before the vote is opened, the machine stores the item, and when the vote is opened, the button you touch automatically turns on the light. (applause from the left)
in writing. the report recommends that the european union act as a lesson-giver with moldova, on the pretext that it wishes to establish a full and deepened free trade area with the latter. it proposes to complete the upgrading of the country's economy as soon as possible in order to negotiate the establishment of this free trade area as from 2012. it's the guaranteed bankruptcy. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the surrender of muammar gaddafi, which marks the imminent end of the fighting and opens a new era for the libyan people. in the immediate future, europe's priority must be to help the civilian population and refugees who are suffering under the gaddafi regime's oppression and the shortage of basic necessities. the release of part of the libyan regime's assets must therefore be accompanied by emergency humanitarian aid in the worst affected areas. the national transitional council announced the holding of elections for a constituent assembly within 8 months, and the organization of presidential and legislative elections within 20 months. this process must ensure the unity of the country by establishing democratic and pluralist institutions. the european union must be prepared to contribute its expertise, while respecting the path chosen by the libyan people. finally, the atrocities committed against its people by the gaddafi regime cannot go unpunished. all countries, and particularly libya's neighbours, must therefore cooperate with the new libyan authorities and with the international judicial bodies, in this case the icc, to bring gaddafi and his inner circle to justice.
in writing. the tyrannical regime of gaddafi has fallen in libya. the democratic transition must now begin. it belongs to the libyan people and no one else. the citizen revolution must regain the upper hand over the armed groups. nato must leave libya immediately. she has nothing to do with it. any interference must be firmly fought. the text contains noble intentions which i approve. but it has the failing to give unconditional support to the unelected cnt, to ask for the continuation of nato's action, which no longer has any purpose, and to admit the religious character of the future constitution. it does not set out any specific requirements or timetable for the holding of constituent elections or the establishment of democratic institutions. i am forced to vote against rather than sign such a blank cheque.
in writing. we are now at the dawn of a new libya, but the path to democracy will be no less easy than the one it took to liberate the country from its dictator. the eu's support and assistance to the revolutionaries will be essential to achieving the rule of law, which is why i am glad to have voted in favour of this resolution. the challenge is immense, and we need to offer assistance that goes beyond humanitarian aid. the eu must support civil movements, provide technical assistance and invest in key sectors of the economy so that the country can return to growth and rebuild quickly. however, assistance should not be confused with interference. it is up to the libyans, and especially the national transitional council, to continue the transition and to respond to the democratic aspirations of the people.
in writing. syria has been rocked by a movement of protest against the regime of bashar al-assad since last march. according to the un, the repression of the popular uprising in syria by the security forces has claimed more than 2,600 lives. thousands more have been arrested, and many more are being held incommunicado in undetermined places where they risk torture or death. the syrian people, whose courage and determination i applaud, are fighting for greater freedom, dignity and democracy. we must show our support by taking concrete action. the time for reflection and hesitation is over. bashar al-assad must immediately step down from power and end the violent repression of peaceful protesters, i welcome the adoption by the council of new restrictive measures against the syrian regime, including an embargo on imports of syrian crude oil to the european union. but the european union will have to go further and mobilize for an unequivocal condemnation of the regime and additional measures by the international community.
in writing. i vote in favour of this report which strongly condemns the terrible repression which the syrian regime is inflicting on its people. no power will ever be legitimate that massacres its own people. in syria, the citizen revolution is the way of the future. i am voting for this text despite the arrogance expressed about third countries.
in writing. i am happy to finally vote for this text. since the beginning of the syrian uprising, now six months ago, not once has parliament voted on a specific text on the situation in syria. we are finally taking responsibility and showing president bashar al assad and the syrian authorities that their behaviour in the face of the aspirations of the people is not an example among others in the arab world. on the contrary, the bloody repression they are inflicting on their own people is abhorrent and unacceptable. it calls for a firm and unambiguous reaction on the part of the international community. a power that kills, tortures and imprisons its people when they demonstrate for their rights no longer has any legitimacy. it is now too late to back down, president bashar and his cronies must leave power. we must use all the means of pressure we have to stop the slaughter and i hope that china and russia will be able to make their case to the un security council.
in writing. the protest movement against president bashar al-assad and his regime has been going on for almost six months. the bloody repression against the population is not weakening; the un estimates the death toll at more than 2,600 since mid-march. human rights organizations report daily on the killings, arrests and torture of the people who legitimately want regime change. the syrian president, with his promises of reforms unfulfilled, must go and the bloodshed must stop. like the un human rights council, i call for an independent, transparent and effective investigation into the alleged killings, arrests, arbitrary detentions, enforced disappearances and torture by the syrian security forces. no impunity can be accepted for such acts: the perpetrators of such abuses must be prosecuted and brought to justice. the sanctions adopted against the syrian regime are necessary and the council must not hesitate to adopt new ones, while protecting the syrian people from any possible consequences for them.
in writing. the situation in syria has become uncontrollable and our parliament was right to vote for this resolution, which i co-signed. i regret that the balance of power is still strongly in the favour of the tyrannical regime of al assad. even if it seems to be in the abyss, we must avoid any further flight that would cause even more damage and loss of life. i am thinking of course of the too many victims of this murderous state madness, where tanks and guns are unfortunately the only answer to demonstrators who peacefully express their aspirations for freedom and democracy. i strongly condemn this regime which promised reforms but continues its bloody repression through militias and continues to increase arbitrary arrests and acts of torture. how can we not see them as crimes against humanity? justice will have to be served. i also welcome the role played by france, which was the first to ensure that the european union adopted several very heavy sanctions against the syrian regime. the union must stand with the people and the opposition forces so that a democratic transition can finally begin and this bloodbath can be brought to an end.
in writing. the commission came to present its 'anti-corruption' package which it adopted last june, a few weeks ago. this resolution follows this and calls for a strong and ambitious commitment by the states and the european union in this area. corruption weakens the rule of law; corruption undermines trust in democratic institutions; corruption (as well as tax evasion, tax fraud and other forms of economic crime) hampers economic and financial recovery. it is therefore urgent to take action in this area to combat corruption and promote transparency within the european union. our resolution calls for a european definition of corruption, for european sanctions and for the harmonization of the rules within the european union. finally, i would like to stress the cross-border dimension of corruption and its consequences for the european internal market: better judicial cooperation and more exchanges of information are of course necessary. i was a co-signer of that resolution, which was adopted by a very large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. whether political corruption, corrupt activities by and with organised criminal groups, corruption in the private sector or 'small-scale corruption', the abuse of power for personal gain has serious consequences, including by depriving public power of additional resources available for potential investment. at a time of serious difficulties for our economies and public expenditure in our countries, and with corruption costing the european economy €120 billion a year, there is an urgent need to support an accelerated evaluation of the current anti-corruption measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. i also support the harmonization of the rules on the protection of whistleblowers and the criminalisation of illicit enrichment. member states should also ensure greater transparency by developing codes of conduct, or improving existing ones, to include, at a minimum, clear rules on conflicts of interest.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the fight against corruption. it is essential that we as meps take a clear stand against all forms of corruption. we must be uncompromising. the report advocates the development of a common definition and sanctions against corruption. it draws attention to major issues such as conflicts of interest and the funding of politics and the media. it called for a stronger commitment by the member states to apply existing legislation, to ratify conventions such as the oecd convention against corruption by foreign public officials in international economic transactions, and to invest more financial and human resources in the fight against corruption. a key point in the report is the call for agreements with third countries to exchange information on bank accounts and financial transactions, particularly for offshore jurisdictions. this report gives priority to the fight against corruption and sends a strong signal from the european parliament.
in writing. corruption is a scourge. it's the genetic disease of the oligarchy. it must be fought everywhere. governments and parliamentarians must set an example. they must give the financial justice system the material and human resources to carry out its work independently and within the optimum timeframe. they must fight against everything that facilitates the great financial banditry: deregulation, tax havens, but also shell companies whose very existence must be fought. as for the lobbyists, the corrupt scourge to whom this chamber continues to be open despite the scandals, they should all be banned from being where the representatives of the people are supposed to vote for the general interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, in which meps call on the commission to work to combat corruption effectively, following the presentation of a very ambitious action plan by the commission. i particularly welcome the adoption of five amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group, which was the only group to table amendments to the text put to the vote, including proposals which stress that the risk of corruption and impunity, i would say, is higher where deregulation and privatisation prevail, and those which attack money laundering and the maintenance of illicit financial flows through shell companies. in order to avoid the usual fancy talk, these proposals must be accompanied by increased political will and coherence between the words spoken and the actions taken.
in writing. compassion alone will not end the scourge of the horn of africa. indeed, us$1 billion is missing to provide the un's vital aid request for the horn of africa (somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti), where 750,000 people are at imminent risk of dying and 13.5 million people are at risk of famine. the international community must therefore redouble its efforts to deal with this emergency and to prevent further deterioration of the situation. but beyond the call for immediate action to deal with the humanitarian emergency, africa will need long-term measures, including an end to abusive speculation in the agri-food market. the european union must be more than a humanitarian actor. it must help to promote long-term and sustainable development, which africans must be in control of.
in writing. the horn of africa is suffering from a terrible famine, which has its origins in a severe drought, together with other crucial difficulties, such as the civil war in somalia, underdevelopment and speculation in the market for food commodities. i supported the calls for the european union to assume all its responsibilities, not only financial but also diplomatic and political, on development, the fight against climate change, but also the fight against commodity speculation. we must recognize that the rise and volatility of world food prices are seriously endangering the poorest people in the developing world and contributing to the emergency situation in the horn of africa. the european union must work towards greater transparency and advocate the introduction of measures to ensure that agri-food markets are only accessible to market participants who are concerned about risk prevention.
in writing. the latest annual ranking of the world's billionaires announced a record 1,210 billionaires, with a combined wealth of over $4.5 trillion. according to fao, $1.6 billion would be needed to relieve the 12 million people who are starving in the horn of africa. every life lost is murder. the capitalist system kills. a european union committed to the values of solidarity and respect for human rights would work towards the establishment of a fair system of distribution of wealth at world level. the eu is doing the opposite.
in writing. the famine in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti is the worst in 60 years. while tens of thousands of people have died, 750,000 are at imminent risk of starvation and 13.3 million more urgently need food aid to survive. the situation in the whole region is expected to continue to worsen, reaching its peak next month. no prospect of recovery can be expected before the beginning of 2012... there are no words strong enough to describe such a disaster. in supporting the resolution on the famine in east africa, i wish to express my deepest sympathy for the loss of life and suffering in that region. i strongly urge that eu aid be stepped up to the regions where famine is most severe, to provide the most vulnerable with food aid, health care, clean water and sanitation. i also call on the international community to redouble its efforts to meet the growing humanitarian needs and to prevent further deterioration of the situation, given the current lack of funding.
in writing. i welcome the unanimous adoption by the european parliament in strasbourg of the resolution on famine in the horn of africa which i initiated. the unprecedented humanitarian situation in the horn of africa continues to deteriorate and is not expected to improve until next year. it is therefore vital that the international community redoubles its efforts to address this emergency in order to meet the growing humanitarian needs and thus prevent further deterioration of the situation. to date, $1 billion is still needed to provide life-saving aid to the region. the european union must take a leading role in helping poor countries to combat food insecurity and must take the necessary measures to combat excessive speculation in commodity markets in order to stop the soaring food prices.
in writing. according to the world health organisation (who), 86% of deaths in europe are caused by non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, cancer and diabetes. therefore, every effort should be made to reduce the identified causes of these diseases (poor diet, smoking, etc.). i therefore contributed my voice to this action programme prepared for the united nations high-level meeting on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases to be held on 19 and 20 september 2011 in new york.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the position and commitment of the european union on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases. noncommunicable diseases are the leading cause of death in europe. europe has a leading role to play in global health policies. the resolution advocates a strong target of reducing the number of deaths caused by noncommunicable diseases. it stresses that we can do more to achieve this goal by tackling smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, pollution, and by promoting physical activity and healthy eating. it also calls for more research and prevention for the four most common non-communicable diseases: cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, cancer and diabetes. it places the problems of patient and hospital staff care at the heart of the issues to be addressed. this report is comprehensive and helps to outline the contours of a responsible health policy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as a human rights activist and, more specifically, of the french league for human rights, a member of the international federation of human rights leagues, it is with particular emotion that i speak today about the situation of ales bialatski, vice-president of the international federation. this is our fourth resolution on the human rights situation in belarus since the beginning of the year. it would seem that some people see certain countries through a distorted lens, but we know how serious and deteriorating the situation of human rights activists in belarus is. viasna was dissolved in 2003 and was no longer allowed to register, which led to its being banned from operating under penalty of criminal sanction. to operate, viasna, like others, had no other way but to open an account abroad; the sums paid into this account are now considered by the belarusian authorities to be the personal income of ales bialatski, who is accused of massive tax fraud. beyond ales bialatski's personal situation, the european union's support for belarusian civil society is thus discredited, as is any form of democratic opposition. but the most serious aspect of this case is that ales białatski was put in this situation because of the transmission of information to the belarusian authorities by the lithuanian and polish judicial authorities in the framework of bilateral legal agreements allegedly linked to the fight against terrorism. i very much hope that these are unintentional errors, as the governments of the countries concerned are now claiming. but i ask you, commissioner, to put pressure on the governments so that such things do not happen again in the future and to do everything possible to secure the release of ales bialatski.
author. - mr president, the referendum on self-determination on 9 january and the accession of south sudan to independence last july could have given hope of a lessening of tensions in that part of the world. however, those who know the region well know that this is far from the case and that it cannot be the case until the question of the borders between the two states is really settled, which is not easy given the economic and strategic importance of this oil-rich area. in this area, independence has undoubtedly increased tensions, and once again the civilian population is suffering the consequences, as it is the victim of particularly scandalous air strikes, especially since ngos are prevented from intervening. as amnesty international has pointed out, the main arms suppliers to the belligerents are sometimes russia, belarus and china, sometimes the united states and ukraine, as the case may be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is hoped that the withdrawal of troops announced by the belligerents will actually be followed by effect.
author. - mr president, i wish to speak today on behalf of my colleague and friend, eva-britt svensson. mrs svensson left the european parliament for health reasons and many of you know how tenaciously she defended the case of dawit isaak, securing his selection for the sakharov prize two years ago. dawit isaak is a symbol. he is a european citizen, who took refuge in sweden in 1987 and became a citizen in 1992, but the eritrean authorities refuse to recognize his european citizenship. it is a symbol of the repression in eritrea, especially against journalists, since according to reporters without borders, this country has the sad privilege of holding the record in this field: 178th out of 178 in the world ranking of press freedom. dawit isaak is also a symbol of the horror of this repression: 10 years of imprisonment without trial, in particularly inhuman conditions that have already cost so many lives. it is also a symbol of our impotence, since we no longer know how to apply pressure to win over a government like this. if i were a believer, i'd say we're just hoping for a miracle. i am not, so i am just appealing to our collective solidarity and i know, madam commissioner, that you are particularly well acquainted with this matter and that we can rely on you.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the union is witnessing the failure of the lisbon strategy which was to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. but it is china, not europe, which is implementing the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in 2010, china's public and private r&d spending caught up with that of the european union. in the very short term, china will have more engineers and researchers than the united states and the european union combined. in this very worrying situation, only the european aerospace sector is still holding its own, because france, germany and spain have been able, not without difficulty, to take their responsibilities in this area by investing in the long term and by not respecting the dogma of free and undistorted competition. the european union's insufficient research efforts are one of the reasons for the deindustrialisation of certain regions of the union. if there is any beginning of clarity in the report, it is still far from what it should be, particularly as regards the diagnosis of the causes of this alarming situation and the solutions to it. the problem is that public investment in research is lacking, and that it is subordinated to the financial market in its aims and financing. it is also the fact that young researchers and engineers are precarious and poorly paid, while parasitic professions in finance, such as traders, are paid outrageously high salaries, which in a way is a boost to crime. finally, the union has not invested in the development of a mass scientific and technical culture from an early age. it is becoming urgent to work towards the social appropriation of know-how and knowledge.
for the gue/ngl group whether we are talking about tourism or any other subject in this chamber, we inevitably come to talk about competitiveness. but how does the louvre compare with the hermitage? the one in venice with the one in the palace of versailles, the one on the côte d'azur with the beskids? this could be laughable if, unfortunately, behind the quest for competitiveness at any cost, there were not the terrible reality of the wage-earning tourism, with very low wages, over-exploitation and mass insecurity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. what the tourism industry and its employees need is a substantial increase in the purchasing power of the entire european labour force, because without a decent income there is no leisure. what tourism workers want from europe is more protection to eradicate exploitation.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the epp in the itre committee, i would like to congratulate carlo fidanza on his excellent report, which is the foundation stone of a genuine european strategy to boost and complement the action of the member states in the field of tourism. it is a key industry, a source of growth and job creation. europe needs tourism that is in step with modernity, with the evolution of global demand and with the evolution of our societies. tourism that is innovative and competitive but also respectful of the environment, cultures and local specificities. in a context of international competition for destinations, we have every interest in highlighting our assets, our trades, our know-how, and in communicating better about our european or national singularities. in this respect, the recent creation of a french gastronomic festival on the first day of autumn is an excellent initiative which should be welcomed. sustainable tourism, cultural tourism, business and congress tourism, health tourism, these are the priorities. let us also structure euro-mediterranean cooperation in the field of tourism in the wake of the arab spring. we have everything to build together to bring prosperity to the mediterranean on the basis of common standards and projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the situation in the basque country leads me to alert our assembly once again to the worrying behaviour of one of the member states, spain, for european democracy. last may, it took an appeal decision, taken in extremis by the spanish constitutional court by a single majority vote, to allow the presence of the political lists of the basque independence movement bildu in the provincial elections. these lists received 25% of the votes. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been able to adopt the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a serious matter. then, last july, i personally attended a hearing of the trial of mr otegi, leader of the basque left-wing separatist movement, and several of his friends. and they were punished for the sin of their opinion. the court has just sentenced them to ten years in prison, a maximum sentence which is totally disproportionate, deliberately excessive, and which has shocked all the democratic forces in the basque country, and also madrid. it is important that the european parliament should express its disapproval of the spanish state's policy in the basque country, at a time when political developments are those of a peace process which, as in northern ireland, can lead to a lasting political solution which is beneficial to the basque people, to the spanish citizens themselves and to all the citizens of the european union.
(parliament adopted the resolution) madam president, commissioner, colleagues, 35,000 people were killed in 2009. the target we set for reducing the number of deaths by half each year has not been met. this report comes at the right time to respond to an urgent need for action. it offers original, innovative solutions, including through lifelong learning and the improvement of infrastructure. i would like to raise two points in the very short time available to me. as my colleague has just said, the zero alcohol level for novice drivers for the first two years and for professional drivers at all times is a very favourable and realistic element, since a margin of scientific error is now tolerated and makes it possible to make this system applicable. as regards alcohol at the wheel, i support the request for the installation of alcohol tests to prevent the vehicle from starting in all new vehicles used for the commercial transport of passengers and goods. finally, in conclusion, behind these good measures, i would like to stress here too, because the debate on subsidiarity is important, that there is the fact - let us remember - that millions of europeans are now very mobile and that harmonization is a necessity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, regional policy accounts for 35.7% of the community budget. it is a substantial budget but necessary for the development and growth of our territories. in this time of economic and financial crisis, we have a strong responsibility to ensure that the money our citizens entrust to europe is used for ambitious projects that promote growth. we have seen improvements in the absorption of cohesion policy funds for the period 2007-2013, and we need to continue to encourage these efforts. however, absorption rates in some regions and eu member states remain low. we must therefore collectively commit ourselves to taking all the necessary measures to reverse this trend. the community procedures and rules already exist and are functioning properly. we must now simplify them in order to overcome the administrative burdens and enable small project promoters to access european funding. improving absorption capacity is a concern which we will have to take into account in the negotiations on the next financial perspective if we are to ensure the return of growth in europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very grateful for the debate today and very grateful to mrs gardini for leading the preparation of the report. as she so clearly stated, we live in a world where the frequency and intensity of disasters is on the increase, and climate change, population growth and urbanisation, as well as terrorism, put us at a higher risk. we have witnessed over the years the role that parliament has played in creating a high level of ambition to make solidarity work for european citizens and for the citizens of the world. i would quote the initiatives taken on the eu forest fire tactical reserve, on creating multi-country pilot modules like the baltfloodcombat module, as well as on bringing transportation capacity to bear. we saw how much it helped us during the libya crisis. against that background of growing needs, the commission has taken its responsibility very seriously, and has put forward the communication that is now to be turned into a legislative proposal, for which i very much count on parliament’s help. that communication is based on four very important principles. the first is to respect the primary role of member states in securing the safety of their citizens. therefore, what we have put forward is a ‘bottom-up’ approach where we bring the assets of member states together for collective action when either a member state or a third country is overwhelmed by a disaster. second, we recognise that we must be better in anticipating risks so that we can act decisively when they materialise. therefore, we raise the role of the commission in bringing member states into scenario plannings. third, there is a very important move away from the ad hoc response we currently have to one that is pre-planned, pre-arranged and predictable. fourth, we are very mindful of the tough budgetary times in europe, so we are looking at ways in which working together will create savings for member states. in this sense, the proposal which we have designed is a very modest increase, at the level of the commission, from eur 25 million to eur 65 million, but generates on that basis not only high impact but also savings for member states. let me finish with one very crucial point. we are doing this for our citizens, and over 90% of them want us to act together in the face of disasters. we owe it to them to do exactly that.
the rapporteur for the deve opinion. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in major natural disasters and the current budgetary pressures mean that the european union really needs to strengthen its capacity to respond to disasters and make the best use of its limited resources. following the many requests of our parliament, it is, of course, time for the european commission to make ambitious legislative proposals by the end of 2011 for the creation, finally, of a genuine european civil protection force, which would consist of a commitment by certain member states to voluntarily make available civil protection modules identified in advance and ready to intervene immediately for european union relief operations in the event of major disasters. i welcome the recent commission communication on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which provides for a budget of eur 455 million for the civil protection instrument and places a strong emphasis on preparedness and prevention actions. finally, the commission should actively seek to ensure the visibility of the resources and capacities deployed in the field, in particular through the use of european union symbols alongside national badges.
madam president, our colleague mrs gardini has explained very well in her preamble that we are talking here about solidarity, subsidiarity, and i would add effectiveness. because, as has been said, disasters are becoming more frequent in the european union, it is important that we can pool our efforts. finally, this is entirely in line with the excellent report produced by michel barnier in 2006, in which he asked that the european union, which has a number of resources, should be able to pool them in order to create a kind of european civil protection unit that would allow these resources to be pooled and to react more quickly and more effectively. this allows us to use our best technology. we have the galileo programme, we have the gmes programme, we also have telecommunications, which allow us to have the information we need quickly, always in order to intervene as quickly as possible. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you, in connection with telecommunications, of the value of the european emergency number we wanted, 112, which has the power to save the lives of thousands of europeans every day. it is vital to improve communication with our citizens so that they know what resources are available to them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and i hope that the council will accept it. we ask the european commission to ensure that these resources are properly coordinated. commissioner, you have told us that you expect help from our parliament, you can count on us.
madam president, in recent years - everyone has said this - the european union has been struck by unprecedented disasters, and to mention them here would take up the whole debate. i would like to mention the explosion at azf, the 10th anniversary of which was commemorated less than a week ago in toulouse. a stronger european response, as proposed in mrs gardini's report, is a real opportunity to show solidarity between our peoples. for several years now the union has been trying to make this pooling of our efforts operational and now is the time to act together and not wait for another disaster to strike our territories to learn from it. today, we must put our material, human and financial resources at the disposal of all to prevent new tragedies. commissioner, earlier you said that we should anticipate the risks. it is truly regrettable that in this context the european commission is considering withdrawing its funding from the gmes satellite observation programme, which is widely recognised as an essential instrument for preventing and coordinating disaster responses. i urge the commission to reconsider this position and to support these flagship programmes which bring undeniable added value to europe. i would like to thank mrs gardini for her very good report. i hope we'll adopt it; it will thus pave the way for european solidarity at the service of the citizen.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate our colleague, mr daniel caspary, not only on the high quality of his report, but also on the open and collaborative approach which has guided all his work. the text we are about to adopt reflects the aspirations and doubts of members of parliament, regardless of their political group or nationality. it particularly highlights one of our main concerns, namely the need for a genuine long-term commercial strategy. and i think, despite what you have just told us, commissioner, that the commission's communication of november 2010 is insufficient in this respect. it does not take account of the current crisis, not only the economic crisis but also the crisis in international trade. i am thinking, for example, of the deadlock in the doha round of negotiations or the emergence of new non-tariff barriers, which are being observed even among our oldest trading partners. and this communication does not take account of the development of trade policy. the rapporteur has made it clear: 'commercial policy is no longer an end in itself'. however, we have the impression that the commission has not yet incorporated this new reality into its work. i would like to take another example: your services regularly come to the committee on international trade to inform us of the progress of the negotiations on free trade agreements. in this context, we ask them about the consideration of social and environmental standards, the role of the agricultural sector, and reciprocity in market access. and often, in the elusive answers we get, these questions are evaded in favor of purely commercial chapters. that bias is no longer valid today. i would like to support mr caspary's request, commissioner, that the commission should present us with a clear, comprehensive and long-term vision of trade policy.
the caspary report rightly points out that free trade is not an end in itself, that there are economic, social, environmental or moral interests to be defended and that globalisation may not be as happy as the commission continues to believe. the problem is that the caspary report believes in the inevitability of this globalisation and, inevitably, in the virtues of free world trade, slightly amended by some marginal regulation. but this system, as it has been for nearly 60 years, has proved to be deeply unjust and perverse. so we have to change it. the widespread free movement of capital, goods, services and people has led to mass unemployment, relocations, deindustrialisation, wage pressures, unbridled speculation and, ultimately, whether you like it or not, the unprecedented global crisis we are experiencing today. we will not be competing in the near future with countries that use and abuse their comparative advantages, that do not respect their international commitments or that practice dumping and counterfeiting. the global trade war is unfair; we must restore the necessary protections.
madam president, commissioner, beyond the work done by daniel caspary, i believe that the new trade strategy proposed by the commission does not respond to the challenges facing europe in the face of the financial, economic, social, environmental and food crises we are experiencing, nor to the expectations of our citizens who are calling for more regulation and a new model of sustainable growth and development for the planet. but this is unfortunately not or no longer a surprise. in the face of these new demands for regulation and solidarity, the union must define a new doctrine for a different trade policy. if europe does not stand up for fairer trade, based on fair values and creating quality jobs in europe and the rest of the world, who will? promoting services alone is not a policy. we need to maintain strong industry and agriculture through a job-creating industrial policy and a renewed cap. the inclusion in all free trade agreements of binding social, environmental and human rights standards, guaranteeing decent working conditions, is an imperative. europe must be at the forefront of the balance between commercial openness, space for public intervention and legitimate protection of the different economic sectors, both in europe and among our partners; fair trade for fair trade.
on behalf of my four colleagues, i would like to warmly thank all the members of parliament who have made it possible to adopt this initiative, on the one hand, and to say, on the other hand, that it is a very strong signal that the european parliament is sending today, in my opinion, to our partners in the south and, in particular, to their young people, but that parliament now expects the commission to make proposals quickly so that these erasmus and leonardo programmes can actually be put into practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day, since the european parliament has just expressed its wish to create a european civil protection corps. of course, this european body will enable the member states of the european union to be more efficient in the event of major disasters occurring within the union or outside the union, and this is to be welcomed. i think the important thing is not really there. the important thing is that if we want to build europe, we must do great things together. we must make europeans proud of their union. it is because europeans have done great things together in the present or the past that they will agree to do even greater things in the future. let us not be mistaken, europe cannot be experienced by our fellow citizens as a mere accumulation of legislative texts, whatever their usefulness. europe must have a soul. the european civil protection we are about to create is part of that spirit. it is one of the tools for creating this european soul. giving europeans the pride of feeling that they are acting together makes the usefulness of legislation very small. that is why we must build this european civil protection corps together.
in writing. by giving the green light to a trade agreement with palestine, the european parliament wanted to send a political signal of support and cooperation to the people and authorities of these territories. trade between our two entities is non-existent to this day. by removing customs duties on many imports, the european union will help to stimulate the palestinian economy, because peacebuilding goes beyond diplomatic negotiations and also involves raising the living standards of the local population.
in writing. at a time when the palestinian question has been the subject of much debate, including in the european parliament, this legislative resolution has gone a little unnoticed. it is, however, a new positive step in eu-palestinian relations. it strengthens economic cooperation with palestine, for which access to the european market is vital because of the obstacles imposed by the israeli government on all palestinian economic activity. the resolution gives parliament its consent to free access to the european market for a number of palestinian products, mainly agricultural products. the rapporteur took the opportunity to reiterate the union's and parliament's commitment to strict respect for the rules of origin, in other words, that products from israeli settlements in the occupied territories cannot be considered israeli products. i can only subscribe to it. member states should therefore make every effort to verify the origin of imported products in order to allow european consumers a real choice, as the court of justice of the european union recalled in february 2010. the tax and customs authorities of the member states must not be limited to israel's position in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will allow the european union and mexico to strengthen their air cooperation while avoiding any anti-competitive practices. with the signing of this agreement, the two sides will be able to trade freely within the framework of a solid legal basis, and i welcome this.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today the matias report, which sets out a new strategy for research and innovation. i am committed to progress and believe that investments in research and innovation are fundamental to improving everyone's lives. while i am pleased that there are several european programmes in this field, i remain convinced, as my socialist colleagues are, that many things can be improved: excessive bureaucracy, obstacles to risk taking by researchers, complexity - all these make it difficult to participate in these programmes, especially for smes.
in writing. i support this report because there will be no future for industry without confidence in scientific and technical progress! in europe, the low number of direct investors at the very early stages of the development of innovative enterprises limits the pool of projects with high potential. i have met with managers of smes who told me that they would need help with research to understand the setting up of european files! the administrative burden of the calls for projects discourages them. there will be no more innovation if the european union does not convert the quality of its research into growth! no one is capable of innovating alone anymore. the cfp must be more responsive to the financing of networking and partnerships. let us not be 'innovation followers' but 'innovation champions'! look at the united states launching a federal program for "made in usa" on energy efficiency, robotics, advanced materials... europe must identify the ariane and airbus of 2050 and change outdated rules to meet the needs of today's economy. finally, europe is suffering from technology transfer. let us avoid the mismatch between "know-how" and "market". our patents won't lead to jobs if we outsource to asia!
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the green paper on eu research and innovation funding, which sets out the next 'common strategic framework' (csf) to succeed the current research and development framework programme (fp7). the european union must prepare for the future and cannot afford to waste money investing in basic research until innovative products and services are brought to the market. to improve the functioning of the programme, the rules should be simplified to allow for wider participation, in particular of member states and underrepresented regions. the report stresses the role of innovation and the need for greater cooperation between universities, businesses and research institutes.
in writing. while it is urgent to find ways of tackling the crisis europe is currently experiencing, we must also think about the future and the levers that will be needed to ensure a return to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. to this end, the european commission has proposed in the europe 2020 strategy to invest 3% of the eu's gdp in research and innovation. i can only support this objective, especially since at present only six countries, including france, devote more than 2% of their gdp to these themes. to reach that 3%, europe must give itself the means. i am glad to see that the commission has made ambitious proposals in this area. the €80 billion for research proposed in the next multiannual financial framework is good news. however, the next common strategic framework for research will need to simplify its procedures and shorten its decision-making times compared to the current cprd and allow for better participation of smes. it will also need to ensure better coherence with other instruments that invest in innovation, in particular the structural funds, which spend more than €86 billion on innovation.
in writing. − in view of the current situation in the eu countries and in particular in the euro area, particular attention should be paid to sustainable economic development, productivity and global competitiveness. increasing the practical contribution of innovation and research is key to achieving this objective. this is why the eu must provide much larger budgets for research projects and a more strategically-minded, simplified allocation mechanism. it should also take care of small and medium-sized enterprises, the main drivers of eu industry and business, by ensuring that they are involved in innovation projects in a more active and informed way. the commission's green paper on 'from problems to opportunities: moving towards a single strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding' very rightly supports the commission's proposals for a strategic single framework for research and innovation funding after 2013 by combining existing eu programmes and funds, namely the research framework programme, the competition and innovation programme, the european institute of technology and cohesion and structural funds funding. in addition to the commission's recommendations, the report recommends the creation of a european sme investment bank and project bonds, the separation of funding for large-scale projects (such as galileo) from the rest of the budget for innovation projects, the introduction of a new organisational budget model based on three tiers according to the innovation objectives set, and the requirement to double funding for eu research and innovation programmes (available from the structural funds, eib loans of over €50 million, etc.) from 2014. i can fully support the recommendations contained in the report.
in writing. meps have today been more demanding than the commission in defining the priorities for the future common strategic framework for research and innovation in the face of the alarming situation of the sector in the european union. this report by my colleague and friend marisa matias sets as its main objective the increase in spending on research and the development of a scientific culture to 3% of the union's gdp by 2020, which would significantly improve the infrastructure and the capacity for funding in the sector, combat the precarious situation faced by researchers and replace the competition between regions or institutions by strengthening collaborative structures. asked about the pursuit of excellence as the main criterion for research funding, repeated ad nauseam by the commission, marisa matias replied that since the nature of excellence is as varied as the nature of the projects and institutions or companies that support it, other criteria had to be put on an equal footing, such as technical improvement or societal contribution, in order to arrive not at the pursuit of excellence but at the excellence of research.
in writing. i voted for the cavada report on european schools. this report emphasises the diffusion of culture, values, european integration and european languages. the recognition of the 'european baccalaureate' by all the member states represents a real development, accompanied by the creation of a certificate of completion of studies, other than the baccalaureate, for students who wish to move towards a vocational path. the following measures will also be taken to ensure better follow-up of pupils with special educational needs, in particular by better integrating these pupils into the classroom. the report also proposes to review the financing model for european schools in order to lighten the burden on some member states in this period of crisis, in particular by proposing the use of the vernacular languages for non-basic subjects. i support this proposal.
in writing. over the last fifty years or so, european schools have developed to ensure that children whose parents, mainly european civil servants, were unable to work in their home country, can learn the basics in their mother tongue. it was not a luxury but a necessity. these schools now provide quality education and convey european values and culture, the merits of which are no longer to be demonstrated. the report, adopted almost unanimously, calls for the promotion of this model in national education systems, while ensuring respect for the competences of the member states. these schools contribute to the emergence of a european identity based on strong educational principles: multilingualism and mobility. i believe that these models of success, which can always be improved, should be an inspiration for national school systems. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which allows for further reflection on the relevance and performance of existing education systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european school system. at a time when a petition on european schools has been presented by several european citizens and has even been the subject of the emergency procedure in the committee on petitions for the first time, it is essential that the whole of parliament should take up this subject in order to meet their expectations. european schools help to build europe on a daily basis by training european citizens in multiculturalism, mastering several languages. the report calls for greater budgetary autonomy for the european schools and for a change in their legal basis. it calls for the development of european schools, for more infrastructure to be provided for them and for them to be better known and less elitist. it also stressed the importance of the european baccalaureate being recognised in all member states. he rightly criticises the reduction in the budget for european schools and the withdrawal of the european union. finally, it draws attention to pupils with specific needs and to the need to provide qualifications other than the baccalaureate to enable reorientation.
in writing. in these times of crisis for the european union, it must be stressed that cohesion policy is one of the great achievements of european construction. it embodies the solidarity between the member states and the regions of europe. but the capacity of the member states and the competent authorities to absorb the structural funds is problematic: there are many disparities within the union, but overall the funds are not used enough and are used badly. each year, a portion of the funds is unallocated. the report we adopted lists the various causes, stresses the need for simplification in access to funds, the need for more developed coordination between levels of governance. the structural funds are a key instrument in the present period for dealing with the consequences of the crisis (through the esf, for example, by financing training and/or vocational retraining measures) and for moving forward by developing infrastructure projects through the erdf. but we must be able to exploit its full potential!
in writing. the theurer report calls for an improvement in the use and management of the structural funds to meet the requirement of budgetary discipline. this commitment is all the more important as we are now in a period of crisis which requires rigorous measures to put an end to mismanagement and the risk of fraud. despite an acceleration in the absorption of funds for the period 2007-2013, absorption rates remain low in some eu member states. we must simplify procedures without radically changing the existing system in order to overcome the administrative burdens and facilitate access to european funding for small project promoters.
in writing. many member states are failing to make full use of the financial resources from the structural and cohesion funds. these funds represent around 37% of the eu budget and enable regions to invest in major infrastructure projects that can create jobs and economic growth. we must therefore help and encourage these states to make better use of this funding. if these funds are to be an effective tool for regional development, procedures must be simplified, local and regional authorities must be able to manage the use of grants autonomously and obstacles to co-financing projects must be removed. the action plan which the commission will present shortly should be based on the sharing of best practice and ultimately allow for the best possible use of these funds.
in writing. the problem is not whether member states manage to spend all the regional funds allocated to them by the union, but why they fail to do so most of the time. the rapporteur was not unaware that one of the reasons for this under-use was that these funds can only be co-financed: the union is being generous with other people's money. another local authority, or the state, must put its hand in its pocket to access partial financing from brussels, which in these times of budgetary austerity is becoming increasingly complicated. another reason is the complexity of the licensing and control procedures. they are time-consuming, wasteful, and require the involvement of public employees, and therefore generate a significant management cost for the state. the question of the relevance of these funds is not raised. what if it is difficult to find national or local projects that can provide access to structural funds? what if the projects actually financed were of limited use in relation to the stated objectives and, above all, to the real needs of the territories? mr theurer's report does not provide the right answers, because it does not ask the right questions.
in writing. i fully supported this report, because it perfectly illustrates the paradoxical situation in which we find ourselves, with abundant structural funds, but which remain largely underused, for various reasons: insufficient administrative capacity, extremely complicated and too strict national procedures, especially for small project promoters, or the lack of involvement of local partners in programming measures. another major factor in this situation is the obsession with austerity, which has the effect of reducing the possibility of cofinancing, even though we need a more ambitious effort by the european public authorities to get out of the economic and social crisis. we must therefore deplore the fact that, because of long administrative procedures and complex rules, implementation of the esf is slower than expected and that, as a result, many potential beneficiaries are reluctant to apply for funding. the structural funds are, however, indispensable tools for supporting many projects for integration, training, combating discrimination and, more generally, for returning to work, which is worth emphasizing in this period of crisis.
in writing. regional policy now represents 35.7% of the community budget. this funding is essential for the development of europe's regions. however, we note that, despite the acceleration in the absorption of the structural and cohesion funds for the period 2007-2013, rates remain low in some member states. the president of the commission, mr barroso, himself underlined this in his state of the union address to meps on wednesday 28 september: growth also requires improving the absorption capacity of the structural and cohesion funds. we are currently experiencing a particularly severe economic and financial crisis. all good management measures should be encouraged. that is why i welcome the adoption of this report, which shows how much parliament is concerned to ensure that european funds are used to the fullest and to remove all those obstacles which often give the impression that europe's money is being thrown out of the window. we are preparing to start negotiations on the next financial perspective for 2014-2020. with this report we are sending a clear signal to the commission and the council. parliament, as the budgetary authority, will be keen to ensure sound management and proper implementation of the union's finances.
in writing. this report gives us an opportunity to discuss again the means we are putting to use for cohesion policy. in addition to the general principles we set out every seven years, regional policy is also a matter of daily life in our territories. it is important that parliament address this issue in the run-up to the next debate. that is why i voted in favour of this text. this report is an excellent opportunity to take an initial look at the management of the structural funds by the new entrants. it thus demonstrates that the tools of cohesion policy are of course not assimilated and used in the same way throughout europe. the new entrants have encountered some major difficulties in setting up. it is essential to maintain an open dialogue with all national and local authorities on good management practices in order to improve our tools. nothing is fixed and our means can constantly change. i want to see the very likely creation of the new category of intermediate regions as proof of this. we started from the observation that the allocation of funds had to be reviewed in the light of the realities on the ground.
in writing. cohesion policy has a budget of €347 billion for the period 2007-13, or 35.7% of the community budget. these appropriations represent 25% of public investment in europe and are essential to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union. however, their use is often delayed. greece, for example, which could benefit from a total of €20.3 billion, spent only €4.9 billion in mid-2011 and still has to spend €15.4 billion by 2013. that's a winner! the country is suffering from one of the worst budgetary crises in europe for decades. the causes of these delays are clearly explained in this report: slow implementation of the new management systems, the world economic recession, the crisis of public finances, overly complicated rules, changes in the procedures in the course of programming, lack of qualified staff, insufficient preparation of projects, etc. there are solutions to better use of these funds: let us have the courage to apply them! reform and simplify procedures, empower and support the actors! cohesion policy will be legitimate and helpful in the face of the crisis if, and only if, its appropriations are well spent.
in writing. this report on the structural and cohesion funds calls on the member states to improve access to european funding. every effort should be made to ensure that all local partners can make the best use of these funds. however, the complexity of the rules leads to errors, delays and even difficulties in accessing funds. parliament called for the controls to be concentrated on actual fraud rather than on the verification of formal irregularities, for procedures to be simplified, particularly in relation to the amounts of aid, for the ceilings for co-financing to be lowered, for the european rules to be transposed more rapidly and for measures to make them more accessible. we could have gone further and asked for the conditions for co-financing by the states to be dropped. nevertheless, this report is a step in the right direction, particularly in view of the french government's blockages. that is why i voted in favour, as did all the members of my group.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the gardini report, which calls for the creation of a european civil protection force. it echoes the proposals set out in a commission communication and precedes legislative proposals expected by the end of 2011. the proposal for the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 already provides for a budget of eur 455 million for the financial instrument for civil protection. i now call on the commission to be ambitious in its legislative proposals for the end of 2011 so that we can finally create a genuine european civil protection force.
in writing. in the face of the scale of european or international disasters, such as the 2004 tsunami, haiti in 2010, fukushima in 2011, it is time for europe to have an effective system that can ensure a rapid response in the event of a disaster. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is a first step towards a harmonised, organised and united response by the european union. i tabled a number of amendments, which were adopted in the final report, to emphasize the importance of prevention in crisis management and the organization of this prevention through operational tools, which i welcome. pending further consideration of the establishment of a real european civil protection force in the future, i believe that the creation of a european emergency response centre will be a simplification of the current european civil protection mechanism. i asked for two community instruments for the protection of forests, effis and effics, to be associated with this european centre, and this was adopted in the final report.
in writing. the question of european cooperation in civil protection does not even arise and seems obvious, since natural disasters, fires, tsunamis, etc. have nothing to do with borders. in 2010, there were more than 373 natural disasters worldwide, killing nearly 300,000 people and affecting 207 million people. these figures are a strong reminder of the urgency for the eu to organise itself better in order to provide a massive, rapid and effective operational response. they urgently call for systematic action at european level, both within and outside the eu (this is what the commission's communication proposes, and what our report endorses). the current community civil protection mechanism is effective, but insufficient. i will therefore give my full support to any proposal which goes in this direction, to give greater visibility to european action in the field of civil protection, but also to the action taken by all the volunteers in the service of civil protection. i believe that this visibility should go beyond that and be achieved by creating a genuine european civil protection force, with a common logo, a european flag and a common dress code.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, in order to provide the union with a genuine rapid reaction mechanism in the event of a disaster. there are many examples where member states have had to call on the solidarity of their european partners to deal with natural disasters that hit several regions, such as madeira, western france and different regions of spain in early 2010. as an elected representative, i remain deeply concerned about the human and material consequences of the violence of such weather phenomena. the european institutions can make progress in this area and in that of humanitarian aid, moving from simple coordination to a predictable and planned system of civil protection in the european union. the union will thus be able to carry out disaster relief operations through immediate deployment. this system should not, of course, replace the action of the member states, which have competence at national, regional and local level, but should complement this action through european solidarity.
in writing. between 1975 and 2010, the number of recorded disasters per year increased fivefold, from 78 26 years ago to nearly 400 today. the earthquake that struck japan in march 2011 is the latest example. in europe alone, disasters have killed nearly 90,000 people and caused economic losses of €211 billion over the past 20 years. climate change, population growth associated with urbanisation, industrialisation and environmental degradation are all possible causes of this increase. what is europe doing in the face of these tragedies? does it take advantage of these events to show its added value in terms of coordination, mutualisation and solidarity? i'm afraid not in 2006, michel barnier proposed a number of urgent reforms, which are only now beginning to be seriously discussed, and which are echoed in the gardini report. the lisbon treaty gives the european union a legal basis to develop its capacity to respond to such tragedies. the member states must now play their part and pool certain means of prevention and response so that european solidarity can finally be visible and effective.
in writing. this report on the creation of a european civil protection mechanism is part of a logic of solidarity, both at european and international level, in the face of emergency situations, with an emphasis on the prevention and coordinated and effective management of disasters. i think the proposals are rather positive, such as the dissemination of expertise and good practice, the prior identification of the resources available to states, the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, references to climate change but also to the responsibility of private actors and the provision of assistance and humanitarian aid independently of any political considerations. however, some aspects remain questionable, such as the inclusion of references to bioterrorism, the satisfaction given to the follow-up of the haitian disaster, the use of a highly centralized civil protection mechanism with many powers, the measures for the training of youth in a period when the budgetary room for manoeuvre is extremely limited. however, since the emphasis is on the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity and on international humanitarian aid standards, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in recent years, the number and severity of disasters have increased. it was important that parliament renewed its call for the creation of a european civil protection force, capable of immediate deployment inside and outside the union. the shocking images of the earthquake in haiti, the floods in pakistan, the forest fires in southern europe, the oil spill in the gulf of mexico and fukushima have shocked the world and revealed the urgent need for an optimised european response at all stages of disaster management. i have always supported the demands of our assembly that the commission should make proposals for the pooling of the material and human resources available to the member states and for better coordination of these resources in support of a european civil protection force, which unfortunately is not forthcoming. each disaster brings its share of human tragedy and destruction. it is therefore essential to support europe's capacity to intervene for prevention, response, reconstruction and humanitarian action. in this area, it is up to us to put the principle of european solidarity into practice.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report by our colleague auconie, which will facilitate the transfer of funds between the member states of the union. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will also make it possible to improve the safety of persons and transported funds while preserving the social conditions of the staff.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment to the regulation on the export of dual-use goods and technology. the proposal for a regulation should make it possible to increase transparency in the export of goods and technology which can be used for civilian and military purposes.
in writing. i voted for the fidanza report on 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination, a new policy framework for tourism in europe'. this is the first report by the european parliament on tourism policy since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which made it a european competence. the objective set out in the report is to ensure that the european union remains the world's leading tourist destination, through four pillars: quality, visibility, competitiveness and sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which helps to support the european tourism sector by developing concrete measures for the players in this sector. a europe label should thus be created, a genuine recognition at european level of the quality of the services provided by the actors in our territories. the measures proposed also provide for greater visibility and diversification of tourism activities, which we must fully support in a difficult economic environment.
in writing. for many years now, europe has been the world's leading tourist destination. i am convinced of this, and as competition with other destinations around the world is growing, i welcome the adoption of this text, which aims to strengthen this position by providing innovative and original solutions. i would like to mention three of the measures proposed which are particularly close to my heart. the first is to strengthen regional tourism hubs, but also intra- and inter-regional tourism. the second, equally essential, is based on the principle that europe is founded on cultural and linguistic diversity and in fact requires that access to tourist sites for the greatest number of people be facilitated by various instruments. finally, the last measure to which i pay particular attention is the preservation and rehabilitation of industrial sites for tourism purposes, rather than their destruction.
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague mr fidanza on european tourism. this report supports for the first time the creation of a genuine european tourism strategy, aimed at making europe the world's leading tourist destination. given the economic weight of this sector, particularly in france, and the cross-cutting nature of tourism, at the crossroads of many european policies (transport, environment, regional development, consumer protection), it is time to have a coherent vision and objectives to make the tourism sector more sustainable, competitive and a vehicle for growth. above all, europe must be promoted as a 'brand' in its own right, where cultural diversity is combined with the common heritage of the european nations. although member states and regions in some countries are the only ones to decide on their tourism policies, the union has a coordinating role to play and can improve certain existing legal frameworks such as the recognition of professional qualifications, to allow better mobility of tourism professionals, safety requirements in tourist facilities or package travel, to ensure greater clarity and legal certainty for consumers and businesses in the tourism sector.
in writing. tourism accounts for 12% of employment in europe. in the south-western euro-zone and in our region of languedoc-roussillon, it forms a large part of our economy, in all seasons and in all places. i voted in favour of the report because it sends a strong message for the first time in favour of the revival of european tourism. we are the world's leading tourist destination, our continent is attractive both for its history and its heritage. despite our potential, our tourism suffers from certain shortcomings. what is lacking is, first of all, the harmonization of our criteria for classifying sites, accommodation and catering establishments. the lack of transparency often leads to confusion for foreign tourists as well as european ones. finally, tourist tastes and habits are constantly changing. the offerings are now facing fierce competition and tourists have become real consumers. to achieve its full potential, europe must bring its tourism offerings into greater coordination and adapt to new markets. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, europe has a decisive role to play.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which makes tourism an eu priority, as an important driver of the economy and a breeding ground for employment. our parliament has adopted an ambitious strategy, identifying four pillars of action to ensure the attractiveness of the destination 'europe': competitiveness, visibility, quality and sustainability of tourism. tourism faces several challenges, particularly climate change, which has a major impact on the infrastructure and organisation of the industry. i think it is essential to work to limit its impact on the cycle of tourist seasons and on jobs. the way i prefer is to reduce the 'season' effect by developing alternative forms of tourism. it is also a solution to limit the precariousness of tourist jobs, which are generally seasonal. tourism will be the subject of an own budget from the 2014-2020 programming period. i will be vigilant to ensure that substantial support, coordinated with cohesion policy, is given to all forms of tourism, to strengthen the competitiveness of this sector and job security. tourism is intimately linked to our way of life, and the benefits expected from community tourism policy are all the more important.
in writing. reducing the number of road accident victims is an objective which should be shared by all member states. road safety is not just a matter of subsidiarity. it requires a collective awareness to ensure the same protection for all european drivers throughout the european union. parliament supports the objectives proposed in the future european road safety action programme until 2020. governments must take more radical measures, such as "zero tolerance" for drunk driving and speeding. but we must also insist on training and educating from an early age about the dangers of driving. the fight against road safety must also be achieved by improving the infrastructure of the secondary network and by developing a 'street code' in urban areas, particularly with the help of new technologies.
in writing. no one is happy about the number of road accident victims, but like its predecessors, the koch report on road safety at european level contains elements that cannot be accepted. first, the background of the usual suspicion on the behaviour of motorists. the report also includes the obligation to place an electronic bug on all vehicles, which will systematically record all traffic data, with no guarantee that it will only be used in the event of an accident: big brother will watch your car, and your car will be able to denounce you! we want to impose the generalization of the point permit, the equally generalized installation of the famous "educational" radars, which we now know become erratic on multiple or fast lanes, destabilize motorists and are therefore accident factors. the ban on all radar warning devices is counterproductive, since the authorities believe that radar is supposed to be placed in dangerous places and not in the most profitable ones! in short, the usual mixture of tautologies, good feelings, policing all the way, sprinkled with more pertinent thoughts on the quality of the road network and the importance of driver training. there's nothing exciting about it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the road safety resolution because i am convinced that the number of people killed on the roads of the european union could fall considerably in the coming years. the goal of halving their number by 2020 must be supported by simple measures such as the use of anti-start brake pads in commercial transport, reducing speed to 30km/h in residential areas and harmonising traffic rules. the text also recommends consistent harmonisation of road signs by 2013 and a maximum blood alcohol content harmonised at eu level with a scientifically based tolerance of 0/1000 for the first two years for novice drivers and permanently for professional drivers.
in writing. i abstained on all the amendments and on the final vote on this report, not because i am uninterested in road safety issues but because i think that the european union is already taking a great deal of action in this area and it seems to me that at this moment other priorities could be set. this is all the more so since the report goes into a rather hallucinating degree of detail (urban traffic speed, blood alcohol levels, ban on control sensors, harmonization of legislation on winter tyres and so on). the report also emphasizes, once again, a safety approach rather than a preventive one. on the other hand, it is astonishing that there is no mention of the working time of lorry drivers, whose tragic consequences are well known.
in writing. the schengen area has considerably increased the mobility of workers, tourists and goods, so that road safety has become a european priority. in 2009, 1.5 million people were injured and 35,000 people were killed in road accidents. we must at all costs synchronise our national efforts to avoid these human tragedies. europeans would not understand if we did not do what was necessary to combat road deaths. this is precisely the aim of our recently adopted strategy, which sets the target of halving the number of people killed on the roads by 2020. to do this, we must bring our national rules together in terms of traffic, signalling, technical controls and blood alcohol levels. it is no longer acceptable that the majority of accidents are caused by uncivil driving. the road cannot be a no-go zone: only by respecting common rules will we be able to save lives.
in writing. i am pleased that the report on dam infrastructure in developing countries was adopted by such a large majority. if mr deva's draft report was initially very questionable, the amendments of the green group adopted in the committee on development, of which i am the coordinator, have made it a particularly important text. it is a great victory, among other things, that parliament recognises that the belo monte dam in brazil can cause serious damage to the invaluable ecosystem and the precious biodiversity of the amazon and to indigenous peoples.
in writing. the report voted on tuesday by the european parliament on dam infrastructure in developing countries is positive on a number of points, such as population displacement linked to dam construction. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the eu's external policy. the risk of using large dams to prevent flood damage is also considered, as their safety is threatened by the increase and intensity of floods, the primary cause of which is global warming. the european parliament took the opportunity to call on the union to make greater commitments on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to meet its objectives of limiting climate change to 2°c above pre-industrial levels. however, one fundamental element is missing from this report: the recognition of water as a basic public good and the consequences that should follow. so i abstained.
in writing. access to adequate food is a universal human right and a major concern for developing countries. the report, which endorses the positive elements of the communication, deplores the lack of policies to tackle the root causes of food insecurity, such as: usurpation, lack of policy coherence (between trade, agriculture, fisheries and development), speculation, the impact of the cap, agrofuels, the liberalisation of financial markets, etc. to ensure food security, the report suggests addressing three major areas of concern: supporting small and medium-sized farmers, combating speculation and implementing coherent policies. as a member of the green group, i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. it is our responsibility to help developing countries meet food security challenges. financial speculation and the increased liberalisation of financial markets and trade in agricultural products have contributed significantly to the price volatility affecting agricultural commodity prices worldwide, with a worrying impact on developing countries. in this context, we must work towards the establishment of regulatory mechanisms to ensure a certain level of market stability and to reach fair and development-friendly trade agreements, which are essential for global food security. we must also aim to ensure fair pay for farmers whose primary mission is to feed the population.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my colleague from die linke, gabi zimmer, which could help the european union to make progress in the fight against hunger in the world. it is intolerable that only 3% of european aid to developing countries goes to agriculture while 80% of the world's hungry people live in rural areas. this report clearly raises a number of questions and makes a number of proposals. it could have gone further, but it is the result of discussions with the other groups in the european parliament. it affirms the right to food, stresses the need to increase support for the agricultural sector, in particular for small farms, and to focus on sustainable production. it also opposes the high volatility of prices and advocates regulations to prevent speculation in foodstuffs. it also condemns the massive purchase of land by large companies and calls for the involvement of local communities in the negotiations and guarantees of their rights. i was able to note during the plenary that many proposals were adopted despite the opposition of the epp.
in writing. i regret the council's bad practice of including unilateral declarations on legislative acts adopted under codecision. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which stresses that these unilateral declarations cannot in any case produce legal effects. they also risk creating confusion, uncertainty and a lack of transparency in the community legislative process, which is far from satisfactory.
in writing. i voted for this report. parliament today reaffirmed its desire to see social, environmental and human rights standards as binding and legally binding in all trade agreements concluded by the union. in the face of the pressing demands of our citizens for more regulations and new forms of solidarity, the union must redefine a new doctrine for a different trade policy. if europe does not stand up for fairer trade, based on values and creating quality jobs in europe and the rest of the world, who will?
in writing. the european union needs a more coherent and better targeted trade policy. instead of trying to negotiate trade agreements at any price, it should focus on defending a number of principles such as the requirement of reciprocal market access with industrialized and emerging countries, respect for intellectual property rights or the needs of european industry and european farmers. similarly, the european union must develop a genuine strategy for access to raw materials and rare earths from a competitive, social and environmental point of view to ensure that european industry has efficient and secure access to resources in the years ahead and to increase research and development on the recycling of these rare materials in order to reduce its dependence on them. finally, if the european union is to maintain its key role in world trade, all current and future trade negotiations must be instruments for promoting european social and environmental standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by mr caspary asking the commission to present a real trade strategy for the eu to integrate social and environmental components into agreements between the european union and its partners. i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal that the european agricultural sector be given special attention when new agreements are signed, so as not to jeopardise this key sector for the economy of our territories.
in writing. i supported the caspary report on a new trade policy for europe. the future of the european union's trade policy is at stake on several levels. of course, every effort must be made to bring the negotiations under way in the wto to a successful conclusion. in parallel, the european union must also continue to conclude bilateral free trade agreements. but our trading partners are also our competitors and that is why these discussions must be conducted with no naivety. i am therefore pleased to see that this report advocates reciprocity and mutual benefit in our agreements with our trading partners. the removal of non-tariff barriers must also be one of our objectives, because they too often hinder our trade: more regulatory convergence with our partners, more concrete results in the high-level structured dialogues with china, japan and the united states: these are the paths we must follow. the same is true of international public procurement: the objective is not to close our markets and give in to protectionism, but rather to ensure that the degree of openness of public procurement in europe is offset by the same degree of access to public procurement in third countries for union suppliers.
in writing. a thorough reflection on europe's trade strategy is needed, for example in view of the decline in global exports of goods, which fell from 19% in 1999 to 17.1% in 2009. such a strategy must be based on a careful analysis of current trends in international trade and the internal and external development of the union, as well as on the diversity of european enterprises, their know-how and technological advances. negotiations within the world trade organisation and free trade agreements are the preferred tools for a multilateral approach and market access. the drafting of new agreements should not make us forget to take account of other policies such as corporate social responsibility, agricultural policy, job creation and job security and the policy of combating poverty within and outside the union's borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to come forward quickly with a genuine long-term strategy for the union's trade policy. i particularly support the idea that free trade agreements are important instruments of this new strategy. why would you do that? the multilateral negotiations are at a standstill and we cannot expect any tangible results; they also help to communicate the union's values by including basic social and environmental standards. i also support the idea that parliament is committed to fighting poverty outside the union. of course, trade cannot be the only remedy. but when combined with other eu policies, instruments such as the generalised system of preferences or economic partnership agreements add real value to development policy. finally, i think it is crucial to note that the union, which is the most open market in the world, is struggling to obtain reciprocity from its trading partners. the concept of 'positive reciprocity' incorporated in this report should eventually facilitate access for our companies to foreign markets.
in writing. on 27 september, the european parliament adopted a report, pompously entitled 'a new trade policy for europe in the context of the europe 2020 strategy', which is nothing new. the european parliament is firmly committed to a vision of international agreements dominated by economic needs alone and reaffirms that the opening up of markets and access to them remains the main objective. while humanitarian, development and environmental issues can no longer be dismissed, 'the commission must give the union's trade interests a high level of priority' and other policies can only be considered in terms of their impact on those trade policies. that's all there is to it. in other words, the european union is not likely to be disturbed by this report. it is always economic interests and the fight against distortions of competition that prevail over everything else, and in particular the interests of the people, whether they live in the european union or in the countries of the south.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which gives a fair assessment of european trade policy and guides its renewal. to maintain its position as the world's leading trading power, the european union must encourage free trade and the conquest of new markets, but not at any price. we must negotiate trade agreements without naivety and impose the principle of reciprocity. these requirements must of course be adapted to the level of development and the sectors of activity of our partners. i believe that the union must adopt an integrated approach to its trade policy, since it covers many issues: competitiveness of production, socioeconomic, health and environmental standards. that is why i believe that it is no longer possible to write blank cheques to our partners in bilateral agreements or at the wto. we cannot accept any longer the continuation of unfair competition which weakens our businesses and our workforce. it would be tragic to sacrifice our economic, social and agricultural model on the altar of short-term considerations. when it comes to our trade agreements, realism and a sense of responsibility must prevail over the uncertainty of the expected economic gains. globalized trade must not be unbalanced trade.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the eurogroup, dear jean-claude, for weeks and months now, the leaders of the euro area have been demonstrating their determination to defend the euro and to make european solidarity the essential foundation of their political actions. however, it must be admitted that what has been decided since the summer is not enough, it is too late and, above all, it is difficult to implement. it seems that it is no longer the policies but the markets that are in control. this can't go on forever. the epp group believes that only strong and simultaneous community decisions will have the weight needed to restore confidence in the decision-making capacity of our citizens and markets. dear jean-claude, the limits of the intergovernmental crisis management are over. you are both head of government and president of the eurogroup; can you tell us what the possibilities are for a crisis plan? the worst thing is that we don't see the way out of the crisis. there are several instruments: eurobonds, the guarantee of the aaa countries, the quadrupling of the resources of the stability fund, but beyond these instruments, where is the political will and the way to bring together? we must be strong and above all show the way out of the crisis. how are you doing? (applause) i would like to thank
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, you are questioning the president of the eurogroup here, not the luxembourg prime minister. i must admit that on some of the points you have just mentioned, the luxembourg prime minister has a stronger internal mandate than the president of the eurogroup, who is weaker. however, it would take me at least a minute to discuss each of the subjects you have just mentioned. it is true that europe has reacted to the steps of a senator and not at the pace that it should have. i attribute this to the gravity of the crisis, to a lack of early analysis and to the fact that the 17 members of the euro zone have the peculiarity of representing, at the level of heads of state and government and at the level of finance ministers, 17 democracies whose governments are composed of at least 50 political parties. as you have mastered the various games and challenges of this assembly, you will understand that the task is not easy. i believe that we must try to translate into reality and action all the decisions taken by the heads of state and government of the euro area on 21 july, and that we must think beyond what was agreed on 21 july. the luxembourg prime minister i am tells you that he prefers the community method - and by far - to the intergovernmental method, which has been in vogue in recent years.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i have to say something. the long friendship that unites me with martin schulz has led him to describe me - by apologizing to the house - as both perpetrator and victim. in this respect, i am in a state of mind which may well correspond to his permanent state of mind. the way we are running the eurozone makes me think. i know the weaknesses - including the weaknesses of my own administration and execution - and i strongly believe that we have an urgent need for reform and overhaul. mrs merkel and mr sarkozy have proposed that mr van rompuy, president of the european council, be appointed president of the euro formation of the european council, and i support this proposal because i believe that we already have enough dividing lines between the 17 euro countries and the 27 member states of the european union. and if you can preside over a group of 27, you can preside over 17 of those 27 without a major change. however, i would not be happy or pleased nor would i be able to agree if the heads of state or government were to assume the role of supreme commander in a way that would prevent the specific council formations, such as this informal eurogroup, from carrying out their tasks. because i know from experience that it takes several hours of daily commitment to be able to meet this task. it is a matter of a great deal of discussion, and a great deal of listening to the feelings of the member states, to be able to do some good work on this. i would not like the finance ministers, who meet once a month, to lose momentum in their decision-making. you're going to tell me that's not possible, but i can tell you that we could be even slower than we already are. it must not be that whenever something bad happens, whenever there is a need for reactivity, we are stuck with the latest conclusions of the european council - which are already very divergent in their interpretation by the participants and the interpreters - or that because the next european council is in euroformation, we are not ready to take decisions because we have to refer to the bosses again. we should be making decisions faster, more thoroughly, more efficiently. the european council has already made a number of recommendations to the council and the commission. that condition is currently met.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, in short: yes! (applause from the centre)
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i have a rather broad conception of the very notion of economic governance. i spoke for economic governance in 1991 at the intergovernmental conference on economic and monetary union, and i am very happy that an ecumenism which could not be forged at that time is now emerging. although i wonder what the exact meaning of this expression is, depending on whether it is used by one or the other. first of all, we should agree on the exact content of this concept, which, in my view, must have a wide scope, ranging from financial, budgetary, economic, fiscal and other policies to social policies, because when we say government, we also mean social policy. when we speak of government, we are not only talking about the economy, the budget and the finances, but also about the social dimension of europe. i am in favour of an institutional system, even if it now bears more of an intergovernmental than a community label. i am in favour of a system which gives its place to the european commission. not everything is possible with the commission, but nothing is possible without it. the commission should not be systematically eliminated from the way we operate, deliberate and decide. would i go so far as to say that the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs should chair the eurogroup? i wonder what it is. the person proposing cannot be the one presiding over the decision-making. but to strengthen the role of the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary policy within the commission itself by giving him powers of the type currently held by the commissioner responsible for competition seems to me quite appropriate. the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary policy should not be subject to the constraints of seeking consensus within the commission.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, benevolent solidarity obliges me to correct the remarks attributed by mr verhofstadt to mr rutte. mr rutte - like myself a moment ago - has called for a different role to be given to the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary policy. i couldn't agree more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we were young prime ministers, you and i - i was younger than you, after all, for a while. for me, the normal rules don't apply because i'm still here, so i carry the heavy memory of a shared past experience we were advocating the merger of the functions of president of the european council and president of the commission. (applause) i would like to thank this idea, although supported by guy verhofstadt, was not adopted by the member states. so i have to deal with the political reality... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the that idea is unlucky, it's a pity; i believe that a clever combination of these two functions would have given greater coherence to the european approach, both internally and externally. but we are no longer here, and when the next major treaty change comes, we will no longer even be members of the european parliament, you and i - or perhaps i.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i am absolutely - and with some vehemence - against the idea that one or two member states should be forced to leave the euro area. it will not solve any problems and it will increase ... (applause) this will increase the problems for the countries concerned. first for these countries and then for the monetary area as a whole; and that would involve, beyond the single currency area, absolutely considerable risks. greece has no problem, and neither do ireland and portugal, because these countries are members of the euro area. it was not the unemployed greeks or the irish workers who brought lehman brothers to its knees. i am also against the lessons that are being taught across the atlantic and which are strangely oblivious to the real origins of the situation in which we find ourselves. (applause) i would like to thank it is in the interest of the other euro area member states - the weak and the strong - the 27 and it is in the interest of the other european countries surrounding the 27 that the monetary area remains coherent, both in content and geography.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i am glad that my first answer did not disappoint you. the treaty is the treaty. member states which did not have a derogation when signing and ratifying the treaty undertook to become members of economic and monetary union if they fulfilled the criteria. i am aware that a member state without a derogation has taken some liberties with regard to this treaty requirement, but i would not like to rule out at first sight - because the general situation and the atmosphere would have changed - a member state which fulfils the criteria for becoming a member of the euro area. i will tell you this, mr president, the european union will not be complete until all the member states have adopted the euro. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group my question is to mr juncker. whether you answer it as prime minister of luxembourg or as president of the eurogroup is completely irrelevant to me. let's not go around making assumptions. the problem is this: it is not by creating institutions alongside institutions that we are going to solve the problems. either the commission is working and economic governance is the commission and it is therefore up to the commission to implement the decisions of the council and the european parliament, or you do not agree with the commission and are not satisfied with it, you proposed it but it is not satisfactory, then let us discuss changing the commission! but let us stop creating parallel institutions under the responsibility of those who may have proposed the wrong commission presidents. i do not see why the president of the commission today cannot be the one to lead economic governance. why should mr barroso do worse than mr van rompuy? we have not heard anything intelligent from mr van rompuy since he became president of the european union! why should mr van rompuy be the one to save us from the mess that everyone else is in? my question is simple: why not strengthen the commission's capacity to lead governance? guy verhofstadt is quite right: if we want to govern europe economically, we must do it every day! every day! i really don't see the point of meeting every six months. they can't go to deauville or anywhere else. they can play the casino if they want to but let's stop believing they're going to solve europe's problems. i ask for a stronger commission: the commission and the executive of the european union and not mr van rompuy.
president of the eurogroup. - first of all, i must tell mr cohn-bendit that i have the opportunity to hear and listen to mr van rompuy more often than he does. it's not that, until now, he hasn't said anything intelligent. he is a good president of the european council and i do not see why his personality and the role he plays should be called into question, with his know-how and very often - you are not often present - with great determination, if necessary. mr van rompuy is not the man we often describe. he's described as the notary of its major shareholders. it is not the case unless i have become one of the major shareholders of the european union since he consults everyone. i am defending a principle here, and we are attacking a principle. if we do it in the shade, you'll find me on the side of those who have the gift of the shade. but i don't agree that people say "van rompuy is worthless", and i say it. the commission is not meant to govern. the architecture, the general scheme of the treaty, the treaties never provide for the commission to govern. the commission proposes: i would like her and everyone else to respect more fully the commission's monopoly of initiative and the power of proposal. but to make the commission a government, no, i do not think our institutional order allows that today. the commission proposes, the council decides, in co-decision with parliament, where the treaties provide for this, as you and i both know. i am in favour of extending the scope of codecision. but in the current state of the treaty, we can't do what you say. i agree that we should not multiply the number of chambers, the number of cenacles, the number of dark rooms where those who claim to govern europe could meet. the eurogroup is not a parallel structure. the eurogroup, while informal, was set up under the lisbon treaty after we set it up informally after the maastricht and amsterdam treaties. so i agree to discuss strengthening the commission. i am the first to advocate the strongest possible commission. but do not think, do not imagine that governments will disappear completely from the decision-making field of the eurozone or the european union. look at the ratification debates, including in one of your two countries next thursday in the bundestag: governments are responsible to their parliaments. you can't destroy this scaffolding that exists. i would argue that we should return to the community method which has worked well, that we should accept for the moment the intergovernmental method, while keeping in mind that we will have to incorporate in the treaties later what has been tried, if i may say so, at intergovernmental level. but in the state of the treaties, the generous, institutionally generous solutions you mention and which i like, are not applicable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, there are moments in history when three or four minutes are worth more than one minute, right? so, two things. firstly, in competition matters, the commission rules. she governs and makes decisions. so it is not entirely true to simply say 'the commission proposes'. secondly, if we have a problem with mr van rompuy, it is that he has so far refused to explain himself to the european parliament. i cannot see a solution to the economic and institutional crisis where the one who makes decisions in a resolute, intelligent and fearless way is simply accountable to the european council. if the community institutions, the commission and parliament, are not held to account, it is a blow to the head; that's the problem. and i think that mrs merkel and mr sarkozy, in order to get to know each other, have chosen to strengthen mr van rompuy in order to exclude themselves from the community method. that is what is at stake today, not the other way around. that is why i believe that the commission must be strengthened and that if we do not agree with mr barroso's presidency, we must discuss another commission.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i think i have to say that while we appreciate what the obama administration has done in its job creation programme, we should not be too impressed by this great gesture. if you study the obama programme in detail, you will find that it contains 90 per cent of the measures that exist in all the member states of the european union. it is a programme to increase the efficiency of automatic stabilisers, which we know are only half as effective as those in europe. i am in favour of giving bonuses to the longterm unemployed and i like the idea that the united states is finally taking a closer look at the european social model. but these are measures already in force here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. so we cannot say that the united states has a more ambitious and different programme than ours. the united states is moving closer to the elements of the programme which has always been european. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think i can say i know germany well. i often go there, i often give speeches - which are not always interrupted - and i find that when you explain things in a correct, understandable, engaged way, when you do not apologize for everything you do, most german citizens understand very well. we have to tell them the truth. from the very beginning, you have to explain your point of view. the germans are not selfish. they want to understand, as do others, and it is true that we have underdeveloped capacities in terms of pedagogy, but we are learning.
mr president, you are right to say that we are going backwards, both in the community and in the intergovernmental context. but when you say that the community method provides the answer, i do not quite agree with a plan. how do you envisage crisis management in a community-based way? that is the question we are asked. it is not a question of simply going back to the good old method of taking texts and letting the commission propose and the other two decide. what do you propose that is not purely intergovernmental, that brings back this capacity to get the states of the north, the south, small and large, working together in a community way, to serve, once again, crisis management.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam high representative, we must be clear today. for many palestinians - and i'm coming back from ramallah and palestinian universities - the two-state solution is no longer on the agenda. the israelis don't want it. let's not lie to each other. israel is making the two-state solution increasingly impossible. we are right to defend two states. but we must measure the palestinian frustration. there's something i don't understand. we, as socialists, support president abbas' initiative at the un. his phrase: "in the middle east, there is no state too much but there is a state missing". implies that the state of israel is legitimate but the palestinian state is missing. that's the sentence we can all sign. what i do not understand, madam high representative, is that you come here and say: 'we regret that israel has decided today to build 1 100 housing units.' at least condemn him! and you will not regret it! tell him it's not possible! be clear about this! (applause) i would like to thank secondly, even if we are in favour of recognising the palestinian state immediately, at least tell the israelis that if they continue to build, you will be pressing the european states to accept the recognition of the palestinian state immediately. blackmail them as they blackmail you! because they tell you, "we're going to negotiate", and at the same time, they keep occupying. you should be a politician, mrs. ashton. politics is not a prayer! today there are hundreds of thousands of people in israel who oppose netanyahu's policies. the european union, and we here, must be sincere. mr tannock, let's not be cynical about this. the state of israel was unilaterally recognized by the un in 1947 and rightly so. it was just! there have been no negotiations with the arab countries. and it was just! mr tannock, you're telling us that israel supports the palestinians with water. in fact, israel steals water from the palestinians and sells it to them. is that what you call "supporting"? let us stop with our european cynicism for a moment! if we do not all stand up today and say to the israelis: "your peace is israel's peace, israel can integrate into a middle eastern space, and even dream of a united states of the middle east where everyone has a place", israel will not understand that it is in its own best interests that there is a palestinian state. mrs ashton, you must tell the israelis that they will not have any more palestinian representatives like mr abbas or prime minister fayyad and that today, if hamas is against mr abbas' initiative, it is because it knows that this initiative is the only possible one for two states in the middle east. i think your position is too weak. at no time did you say here how you can force the israelis to negotiate. that is an unbelievable lie! they say, "we will negotiate without conditions" because on the ground, we are changing the conditions, we are continuing the occupation. tell the israelis that they must either stop settlements, colonization and construction immediately or the european union will support the recognition of the palestinian state immediately, now at the 66th session of the un. if you do not, mrs ashton, you will see that in six months' time there will be no negotiation. in a year, we'll be where we are today. you will come back here and say, "the israelis and the palestinians must understand that only through negotiations can they achieve peace. "they will achieve peace, mrs ashton, if we say to the israelis, in defence of the state of israel, 'too much is too much, enough is enough!' if we talk to them like this, you'll see that things will change.
madam president, mrs asthon, there is a fact that is not mentioned: the majority of the israeli population, the majority of the palestinians, as well as a majority of the representatives of the states of the world support mahmoud abbas' proposal to make palestine the 194th member state of the united nations. can we continue to welcome the so-called arab spring here in the warmth of the quiet, and can we continue to hesitate for a long time to recognize the palestinian state? because to procrastinate further is to buy time to kill the very idea of a palestinian state. no diversion should be possible this time. those who are calling suddenly, this afternoon, for the resumption of direct negotiations are trying to hide the fact that this has been going on for decades without result, that only the united states is in control of the game and that the framework and the terminology used are totally biased. the only thing that is mentioned about palestine is the occupied territories. this suggests that these territories can be constantly discussed and disputed and that it is up to the occupier to prove that his rights are legitimate. this terminology is totally different from that of occupied countries. ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important political moment, indeed a historic one. a clear and unambiguous resolution by our parliament supporting mahmoud abbas's proposal would be a clear and unambiguous signal. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, madam high representative, since 1947, when the united nations general assembly decided to create two states on the territory of the former mandate of palestine, we have been waiting for this commitment to be fulfilled. how, then, can we today accept such caution in speech? how can we justify our failure to give our full support to president abbas' initiative in the face of this historic opportunity? i want to remind you, mrs. ashton, that caution sometimes leads to cowardice. so i want to pay tribute to the courage and the perseverance of one man, mahmoud abbas. it carries a legitimate hope, that of a people who have a right to land, and to those who object that this initiative would cause an outbreak of violence, i would like to remind them that a few years ago it was the prevention of such an initiative that fuelled the second intifada. my message is simple, madam high representative, at this time of the arab spring, it is your responsibility and ours to support the palestinian cause to the end. the european union has had the honour of tearing down a wall and recognising states, and it would be great to recognise that the palestinians too have a right to a state.
madam president, madam high representative, the request made by mahmoud abbas must be supported because it is legitimate. it is all the more legitimate in the context of the arab spring, when these peoples are proving their thirst for democracy and freedom to the point of sacrificing their lives. we cannot respond to this demand for justice with injustice. the status quo that has persisted for many years in the middle east is no longer acceptable and must end. we must now demand a genuine solution, namely the immediate resumption of negotiations on a tight timetable and on the basis of 1967. is the creation of a democratic, viable and peaceful palestinian state not the best guarantee of security for israel? madam high representative, i commend you for all your efforts, but we must go further, because once again we regret the divisions and the lack of a common position among the member states of the european union. and it is regrettable that some european governments are opposing the will of their citizens who are overwhelmingly in favour of the creation of a palestinian state. as the elected representatives of these peoples, can we accept this? i fully agree with the statement by hans-gert pöttering. madam high representative, it is time that the wind of change that is blowing over parts of the arab world also blows over jerusalem, ramallah and tel aviv. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, today i reaffirm my own commitment and the commitment of the european union to the entitlement of all people, wherever and whoever they are, to enjoy the full range of human rights and to do so without discrimination or the fear of discrimination. around the world, the issues of gender identity and sexual orientation continue to be used as a pretext for serious human rights violations: lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender and intersex people are still subject to persecution, discrimination and ill-treatment, and that ill-treatment often involves extreme forms of violence. there are 80 countries which still criminalise same-sex relations between consenting adults, and seven which apply the death penalty. let us be clear: this is incompatible with international human rights law. it is a cause for which i was proud to fight in my native country, and it is a cause which i take up now on behalf of the 27 member states of the european union. we continue to protest against these abuses and to offer practical support on how to end discrimination and to encourage inclusiveness. through the channel of the united nations, the european union takes this message to the world: 15 of our member states were part of the group which prepared the statements on ending acts of violence and other human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity, which was agreed by 85 countries at the un human rights council in march this year. we also welcomed the resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity tabled by south africa and adopted at the council three months ago. elsewhere in the un system, the eu has supported lgbt rights in the ngo committee of the un economic and social council, and in december 2008 we were instrumental in delivering a un general assembly statement on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity which had the support of nearly 70 countries on five continents. that statement reaffirmed the principle of non-discrimination and condemned all executions and arrests made on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. it calls on all states to decriminalise homosexuality, especially including capital punishment. the eu is an organisation of values, and it brings those values into the heart of its relationship with its partners beyond its borders. with its african, caribbean and pacific partners, for instance, we proposed the amendment of article 8 in the cotonou partnership agreement. we wanted to adapt that non-discrimination clause to the language of the lisbon treaty by introducing a reference to sexual orientation. the acp side could not accept the proposal, and a compromise was agreed which uses the language of the 1948 universal declaration on human rights. this says that the dialogue shall focus on discrimination of any kind such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. we knew that a matter of principle had to be raised. and we will keep raising it. madam president, i want to set out briefly some of the practical examples of how we work. over the last year we have raised the same principles in uganda and malawi: in uganda, against a proposed parliamentary bill further criminalising homosexuality and raising serious human rights issues, and in malawi against the long prison sentences imposed on a gay couple. we spoke out and made public statements together with members of this house and ngos, and we worked behind the scenes with our delegations to argue the case for justice and human rights with these two governments. in this we succeeded. the eu also uses our regular human rights dialogues with individual countries to promote tolerance and non-discrimination for lgbt people. in countries like moldova, those dialogues have resulted in expert-level follow-up, and in countries like russia, croatia, turkey, montenegro and brazil the union has used its instrument for democracy and human rights to support local and international ngos in their campaigns against discrimination. our action has ranged from physical protection, which we offered to lgbt people who had received death threats in the wake of the assassination of david kato in uganda, to the practical promotion which saw 4 000 people attend a gay pride march in la paz, bolivia. we can always do more to promote awareness throughout our delegations worldwide and guide them in their work. in june we adopted a guide called ‘a toolkit to promote the enjoyment of all human rights by lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and trans-gender people’. i much appreciated the support of this house and joint working in order to produce this toolkit. it sets out ways to bring about decriminalisation, promote equality before the law and in society, and support and protect those who campaign for lbgt human rights. it also gives guidance on taking this issue onto the international stage in the un. so we stand by the principles of human rights and we articulate that view. so, too, do we give practical support to establishing those principles. we cannot allow discrimination over sexuality and gender anymore than we can allow it over colour and creed. human rights are as indivisible as they are universal.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption by the un human rights council of the resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity has unfortunately not received much press coverage, and yet the adoption of this resolution is a historic act. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is also taking part in this debate. it is important that the european union vigorously defends its values in international forums and in its relations with third countries, but it is also important that we are vigilant in defending the values of the european union within our borders. i therefore ask the member states and the high representative to ensure that the union's external and internal action in the field of human rights is consistent, as required by article 21 of the treaty on european union. i note that homosexuals are still the victims of very serious prejudice and discrimination in some member states of the union. we also need to act on the criminalization of homosexuality in the world. we have condemned it in this parliament on several occasions, but we must continue our efforts by having a regular, respectful and open dialogue on these issues of sexual orientation and gender identity. i will end by saying that we have a financial instrument to combat this discrimination based on sexual orientation and identity with the european instrument for democracy and human rights.
in writing. it is absolutely shameful that the so-called "gender identity" is at the heart of discussions on "human rights", both within the european union and the united nations. it is unacceptable to want to impose on the world, on all cultures, this smoky "gender theory", invented in the circles of the american extreme left feminist of the 1960s, which is based on nothing but sociological and pseudo-philosophical fantasies. the fact that the european union is playing this game is grotesque. what image do you think you're giving the rest of the world, if not that of decadence and immorality? we are not born indifferent individuals. we are men and women, with different abilities and sensitivities. and this, i beg your pardon, is a given, not dependent on our personal choices or our socio-cultural environment. and if you want to talk about gender discrimination, then look at the plight of women in some countries, and even in some of our suburbs, where they are considered a sub-humanity that can be exploited, coerced, sometimes killed just because they are women. but you would think you would "stigmatize" certain communities and yet you are strangely silent.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i am not unhappy that we are having this debate because, after all, since 2004 there has been no discussion of turkish-cypriot relations or the situation in cyprus. it is therefore the first time since that date that we have openly discussed a member state of the european union on whose territory an international un peacekeeping operation has been deployed since 1964 in a conflict with a country in the process of joining. the facts are so obvious that the situation is rather grotesque. i do not think that this debate is about whether cyprus is exercising its sovereign right to drill in its exclusive economic zone. there's no doubt about it. the international law is undoubtedly in favour of cyprus, but it is also conceivable that, in the context of a future agreement, the benefits of these drilling operations will be equally shared between the two communities. that being said, what i think is reprehensible is the timing of this operation because, in the end, this decision is detrimental to the negotiations which will begin in a few days under the auspices of the united nations. i believe that our parliament - and this is what it demonstrates - is not meant to be a competitor, but rather to be a useful actor in finding a comprehensive peace in the framework of an agreement for a bi-zonal, bi-communal and federal country. moreover, the details of a future agreement are known and almost - i was going to say for the most part - on the table. the question we have to ask ourselves as europeans is what the member states are doing, what the european union is doing to help bring about a political agreement and to encourage all the parties concerned to take constructive confidence-building measures. i sometimes have the feeling, on the contrary, that the cyprus question is deliberately left unaddressed so that it can be used as a necessity in the context of eu-turkey relations. i hope that concrete steps can be taken today by the union and the member states to support and encourage a rapid settlement of a problem which is profoundly european.
in writing. the partition of cyprus should have been settled before the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, as had been promised on many occasions. in the absence of a settlement, turkey has every reason to reiterate its rejection of the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus and its support for the north of the island, which it occupies militarily. tensions have recently been renewed over oil and gas exploration in the eastern mediterranean, in the island's exclusive economic zone. the european union's reaction is to throw the two sides back to back, urging them to moderate and respect international rules. it does not even have the decency to show solidarity with one of its members, or even to say that in this case it is clearly cyprus that is in the right. it refuses to see that for months turkey has been affirming its willingness to free itself from european constraints on its internal reforms and to return to a foreign policy more in line with its own geostrategic interests. it's his right. but then we must take note of it and brussels and ankara must learn the consequences: it is simply no longer credible to continue the accession negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the commission, it is heartwarming to hear such a speech. i may be doing some analysis, as you are, but after this speech, we will act together. europe is experiencing a crisis of confidence and a crisis of growth. as if that wasn't enough, she's going through a leadership crisis. it is high time for europe to provide a political response to the crisis. a united and strong response, which puts politics back where it belongs, in the cockpit; i'm looking at the council. what are we talking about? we are talking about a currency the euro created ten years ago. we really believe that it gives us the means to ensure its governance. we are talking about countries that for decades have lived beyond their means, more and more, without always asking whether the expenditure they have been making is creating growth and jobs. we are talking about a europe which was born to prevent internal conflicts and to ensure the prosperity of its peoples, and which has so far succeeded on all these fronts. but we are also talking about a europe that is not understood, or even criticized, because its leaders have not been able to explain why the choice of europe is the only choice for the future and why the answer to global challenges can only be european. the european union - too often forgotten - is one of the most advanced and developed regions. it is the world's leading commercial power. it is our duty to make sure that it remains so. what's the problem, then? and how can we fix it? the problem is that, while economists agree on the causes of the financial and economic crisis, and on the answers to it - namely a mix of austerity and incentives to create wealth and jobs - the political class has not had the courage to tackle it. the reforms proposed in recent months by the member states of the union and the euro area in particular are moving in the right direction. but they are clearly inadequate, late and poorly or not explained. they are based on the intergovernmental method which, as you said, is paralysing europe. the national method, ladies and gentlemen, must give way to a european method. we do not want to go back to subsidiarity here, but the community method is the only way to enable us to tackle the urgent and immense challenges we face in a united and effective way. i understand that in a time of crisis, people tend to retreat into their own world. no, we have to go out and look for the community method. the european method is not two, three or four presidents with different messages, but a single and rapid exit plan. mr president of the commission, you are the chief executive of the economic government. you demonstrated this in your speech this morning. the epp group therefore urges you to play your full part in the dual role of proposing and implementing european legislation agreed with the council and parliament. the commission has a key role to play: that of safeguarding the general european interest. it is difficult, it is demanding, but it is necessary: we must confront national interests which are not always compatible with the common interest. (applause) i would like to thank it's a must. that is why this parliament gave you its confidence at the beginning of your mandate and continues to do so. mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, i ask you to go even further in your ambitions, because there is urgency. there is an urgent need to save the euro, to show our solidarity with greece and with all the member states whose markets are under attack and whose credit ratings are being downgraded. at the same time, it is urgent that these same countries adopt and implement measures to match the situation, because european solidarity comes at a price. there is an urgent need to act, not in the months but in the days and weeks to come, to prove to the world the ability of europeans to defend and stabilise their currency. if they do not, the whole of the european construction will be permanently affected. the decision that i hope this parliament will take today on economic governance, the so-called six-pack, is an important step in the right direction. it will now have to be implemented as quickly as possible, just as the decisions of 21 july on the stability funds have to be implemented as quickly as possible. mr barroso, entrepreneurs need visibility and security. the markets expect the euro area and the countries of the union as a whole to take strong and consistent measures to reduce spending but also to support growth. on the first aspect - the reduction of public expenditure - i called a few days ago for a big bang, for a joint decision by the seventeen on fiscal, budgetary and social convergence. i repeat that call today. it is very difficult for a country to take, in isolation, the strong measures that the financial situation of the euro area calls for. but it must be admitted that the electoral campaigns that are to take place in several european countries in the years to come will certainly not be conducive to bold measures. i therefore ask the commission to take up the proposal to bring tax rates closer together, particularly for companies, but also for retirement age and weekly working hours. europeans will only be in solidarity with one another if they see comparable rules being applied. it's where you can feel european. (applause) i would like to thank i am convinced that strong and rapid decisions by the seventeen on this triple convergence would have a considerable impact and would be a tangible sign of european leadership. ladies and gentlemen, as i said at the beginning, the present crisis is as much a crisis of confidence, which requires collective decisions, as those i have just described, as it is a crisis of growth. and without growth, europe will be unable to pay back even the interest on its debt. without growth, europe will not be able to develop and survive competition from emerging countries. this growth is achieved through increased competitiveness, increased resources for education and training and increased efforts in research, development and innovation. i am advocating a new public-private partnership to create hubs of excellence in research and innovation and to create - why not? - a first-of-its-kind erasmus after the success of erasmus for universities. i hope that european policy-makers will listen more closely to entrepreneurs and social partners, who are living the reality of globalisation and can help us to emerge from the crisis. because growth, ladies and gentlemen, also means paying more attention to our small and mediumsized enterprises. you can't step on them. they are the ones who are bringing us jobs and helping us survive the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. if they are to grow and employ, this growth requires greater flexibility to invest and to maintain and create jobs. the internal market, ladies and gentlemen, was the great idea of the 1980s. with the single market, europe has gained growth points and our manufacturers have been able to make economies of scale by accessing a market which is no longer national but continental. but we all know that the european internal market is far from complete, particularly in the services sector. i ask the european commission to tackle this with the same ambition and determination as it did 20 years ago. that's where growth is. growth, ladies and gentlemen, is not something that is decided. it is built up by a whole series of structural measures, precisely those which we have already approved in the europe 2020 strategy. the time has come to roll up our sleeves and, above all, to implement these measures. it is time for europe to speak with a loud and intelligible voice, not only to counter the populisms that are the enemies of europeans, but to propose long-term solutions that our citizens understand and expect. it is time for our elected representatives to accept that freely shared sovereignty is the only future for our countries, and i say the only one! i ask you, mr barroso, to propose to the european parliament and the council a plan for overcoming the crisis. a plan which could be an opportunity for the 500 million europeans to start over on a new footing, to rebuild their project. we need bold actions and proposals, understood - i repeat - by our fellow citizens. europe has always advanced in the face of crises, but we must still make the right proposals and believe in them. i always say that before the crisis and after the crisis, nothing will be the same. it's not gonna be like that. josé manuel barroso, we must propose this 'other' to our fellow citizens so that they will believe again in politics and in europe.
mr president, a few days ago i said a number of things to you in a friendly manner. you didn't miss your appointment today. we have heard - and i would say at last - the strong words that are needed to deal with the crisis of political decision which we are experiencing, because beyond the economic, financial and social crisis, which you have described, and the crisis of confidence, there was and there is a crisis of political decision. by emphasizing today the role of the commission and its constructive proposals - some of which have already been implemented, particularly on financial regulation - and thanks to this parliament, thanks to what will be voted on shortly, i hope, and thanks to this joint work that we can do again - as mr schulz said shortly - i believe that we can move europe forward in the right direction and give you all the support you need, and which you now fully deserve. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, you have said many very good things about poverty, about the financial transaction tax and about eurobonds, which, thanks to olli rehn and very fruitful cooperation, we are trying to move forward together. i have a question, mr barroso. i ask without malice: why should we believe you today? why have you, who have been at the head of the commission for seven years and the pilot of the community's ship in the crisis for two years, waited until today? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, good work, mr barroso, you have a balanced and fair view of the seriousness of the situation and of the common solutions to be found. i've heard the criticisms about the methods. today, in this chamber, there are those who are absent: our heads of state and government. i would like to dream that we have a great political debate on the state of the union, with the european commission as a whole - that is the case - the representatives of the peoples, the heads of state and government with their representatives, and president van rompuy. but i would like to say to the political group leaders: have we invited mr van rompuy? have we invited the heads of state and government and representatives of the national parliaments? we have a european council on 17 october. this is a considerable political moment. we must put your proposals on the table, mr president barroso, we must have a major political debate with president van rompuy, who could prepare this european council session for our mini-session in brussels on 13 october.
i would like to say to president barroso that i appreciated his speech and that it is absolutely in the right direction, but i would like us to agree that for the last 18 months the european institutions have not really lived up to - that is my feeling - the crisis, and that they had not succeeded, at least, in containing this crisis, basically, of confidence, and this debt crisis and the eurozone. the result today is that our european union is weakened. so, is there any chance of a flare-up? you said it yourself. well, i hope you're right. there are several conditions for this: first, all the political actors and all the european institutions must be mobilised in the same direction. secondly, we must reaffirm loudly the principles which have made europe, that is, solidarity and the community spirit. secondly, it must be said that the departure of a single country from the euro zone is not an assumption. you said it, and it's good. then we have to put a coherent package on the table. guy verhofstadt said it, he gave the details, i'm not going to go back on it. finally, we must move towards genuine economic governance, but we must also move towards genuine political governance. never have there been so many responsibilities. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr president of the commission, i would like to speak more specifically to you about the public services sector, to tell you that it is essential for the economy of the european union. i would remind you that it represents 26% of gdp and a third of employment in the european union. what is the commission doing about this? at the instigation of michel barnier, it published the single market act last april - you mentioned it - which aims to revive growth within the internal market. i welcome this initiative. commissioner almunia has just published a reform of the state aid rules for services of general economic interest. its ambition to simplify and clarify is supported by our parliament. beyond these two initiatives, mr president, i believe that the commission must be much more ambitious. at the beginning of the new parliamentary term you undertook to propose a communication on this subject to parliament before the end of 2011. but so far, we don't see anything coming. mr president, is it not more useful than ever to develop this sector? it's important in the times we're going through.
mr president, mr president of the commission, you are finally listening to the socialists, because you are going to propose a tax on financial transactions and eurobonds. so listen to us a little more and mobilize your commission so that the community's initiative power is used to combat tax evasion effectively rather than allowing each member state to negotiate bilateral agreements with switzerland. then, listen to us on the social issue too, because, admit it, this morning you were a bit brief. what did you say about an initiative in the field of company restructuring? we expect strong proposals in many areas where you are obviously having difficulty convincing the member states. but that is your mission and your role. you also said this morning that you had asked the council for the missing 400 million so that the food banks could do their job this year in the economic disaster we are experiencing. take your pilgrim's staff, do your job, go convince head of state after head of state. this is an essential task for you, otherwise those who are poor will be the victims of europe, and we cannot accept that.
in writing. in the light of current international developments, the management of migration and refugee flows is a challenge to which the european union must respond swiftly. the draft jędrzejewska report, which i supported, is in this direction. the mediterranean countries of europe, including france, are the most exposed to the problem. in a spirit of solidarity, the european union has therefore committed to providing additional funds of €43.5 million to help the member states most exposed to these flows. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) and the european refugee fund will be the main beneficiaries.
in writing. the eu's 2011 budget was increased to €52.2 million in commitments to better manage migration flows and refugee flows. the additional funds will be used to help member states most affected by these flows, and to strengthen maritime controls carried out by frontex, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders. this increased funding stems from the aftermath of the arab spring in terms of migration and a request from european leaders. beyond this increase, if we really want to help the countries, both in the european union and in the southern mediterranean, then we must finally develop a real immigration policy. this is the only way to deal with the issue of migration in a calm and responsible way.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the council's position on the draft amending budget. the report endorses the council's position. this budgetary change allows for more resources to be allocated to frontex, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund. frontex has a fundamental role and should be given the means to fulfil its tasks. the importance of these various funds should not be overlooked either. this amendment allows recent events in north africa to be taken into account and the resulting migration and refugee flows to be managed appropriately. the funds allocated come from the under-implemented energy networks part of the european economic recovery plan.
in writing. the budgetary amendment proposal which the commission is proposing to us to approve is a shameful mixture of funding for the hunt for immigrants and funding for the reception of refugees. i can't possibly vote against it, wanting the second part. i cannot possibly vote for, rejecting the first part. i'm forced to abstain.
in writing. following the democratic revolutions in the arab countries, the union decided to increase the allocation of its budget for managing migration and refugee flows (heading 3a) for 2011. the union is taking one of its first concrete decisions in response to the uprisings in the arab countries, even though its support for them, which we know from the past, has been delayed and hesitant, apart from humanitarian aid. the promises of financial aid, especially to tunisia, are long in coming and remain for the most part beautiful speeches. this decision is all the more questionable as this increase is taken from the budget for the 'european energy networks for economic recovery plan', which could have been used otherwise. it concerns the strengthening of frontex and thus border control and aid to refugees, which we know is not easy to achieve. it is a reflection of the contradictions of the union. so i decided not to.
in writing. as always, i abstained on the vote on this new mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. i cannot oppose the european union's financing of individual training measures for workers who have been made redundant, in this case workers employed by shoe factories in portugal. however, i cannot support the very principle of the globalisation adjustment fund which, by means of one-off interventions, on specific companies and regions and within the framework of strict criteria, serves to finance social plans. it seems to me that the european union is thus giving itself a good conscience at the expense of the social consequences of its economic deregulation policy. many workers across europe are affected by the crisis; they all deserve the support of the european union and they are waiting for the establishment of a social europe that ensures that workers' rights are finally put before the interests of shareholders. the globalisation adjustment fund is a mere caulk on a wooden leg and is by no means an appropriate response to the crisis.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, the european union must be resolute and ambitious. the house is voting on the so-called '6 package' or 'governance package', which contains six legislative proposals to strengthen european economic governance. the wortmann-kool report is intended to amend and strengthen the stability and growth pact, which in its present form is inadequate. this report provides for preventive measures which should make it possible to anticipate any new crisis. it aims to strengthen budgetary discipline by monitoring the increase in government spending, and by establishing a 'european semester' where european and national policy-makers will meet to discuss economic issues. the european commission may also make recommendations to the member states. i am convinced that economic and budgetary coordination between the european states must be profoundly strengthened, and i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr wortmann-kool.
in writing. the economic governance package was adopted. i voted against (for the vast majority of the reports) because i think we are too late with these reports. we are completely out of step with the current crisis situation. the crisis in europe is such that there is an urgency... but an urgency to do something else: such a package might make sense in a period of stability but it seems very far away today. it is a mistake to focus on tightening sanctions and rules without proposing a large-scale economic, environmental and social investment project. austerity is already a reality for all the peoples of europe; what we need is a positive vision for the future. the eurobond project, which is mentioned in my colleague s. goulard's report, is one of the ways of overcoming the crisis. it should be noted that these european loans should not only be used to repay the debt but should also be used for investment. to finance future projects in the fields of energy, transport, research and innovation, we need these so-called 'leapfrog projects' now, not in three or five years' time.
in writing. the adoption of the economic governance package is a historic step for the euro area and the union as a whole. the greek sovereign debt crisis is daily proof of the need for genuine european economic governance and a strong, credible and respected stability and growth pact. we will only get out of this crisis by permanently restoring our public finances. the measures we have adopted today will strengthen the stability and growth pact and improve the surveillance mechanisms to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances that could lead to contagion. strong and courageous action is needed to address all the factors that have contributed to the worsening of the crisis. i welcome the announcement by commission president josé manuel barroso of the creation of a financial transaction tax. i have been campaigning for several months for the creation of such a tax, which president sarkozy and chancellor merkel have called for. in march, the european parliament called on the european commission to make proposals to this end. i am glad that this appeal has finally been heard.
in writing. i voted against the wortmann-kool report because it does not in any way ensure a lasting solution to the financial, economic and social crisis. by limiting itself to a punitive dimension, the economic governance package locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and investment for the future, this report makes citizens pay for the crisis by stifling growth and destroying jobs, and will therefore effectively prevent the return to budgetary balance. the consolidation of public finances must not be achieved without a policy of growth and recovery, and this economic governance package is nothing but an abdication to the omnipotence of the financial markets and the rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. after a year of debate, parliament is putting its package of measures for a new economic governance of the union to the vote of this house. the aim is to require member states to keep their deficits below 3% of gdp and their public debt below 60% of gdp. national budgets will therefore be monitored and evaluated upstream by the commission and the member states; this is called the european semester. then, recommendations will be given if the debt reduction policies are not followed. and if this continues, the bad students will be threatened with a demand for a deposit of funds equivalent to 0.2 percent of their gdp, this deposit turning into a fine if the bad student refuses to comply with the rules. control, evaluation, recommendations and then sanctions - that is what the sovereign peoples of europe will have to endure from a commission without democratic legitimacy. this economic governance package is a real stewardship, an unacceptable attack on the sovereignty and freedom of peoples to decide their own future. worse, all this will be of no use because the austerity plans that will be imposed will strangle growth and dramatically and irreversibly accentuate the crisis and then bankruptcy.
in writing. this text organises the commission's control of all the components of national budgets in the context of the european semester. it prepares the arbitration between the "good students", those who will keep their budgets between budget balance and 2% of gdp, and the "bad students", those who will not. there are penalties. states which reform their pension systems will be exempted. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to take action. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i vote against this text and denounce its intolerable aggression against the popular sovereignty of the nations.
in writing. the european parliament today takes a historic step in the fight against the crisis that is shaking europe and dangerously threatening the euro area. the vote on the governance package that has been under discussion for over a year is an important step forward that we should welcome. the six texts in this package reflect a delicate balance between national sovereignty and the need for european coordination in budgetary matters. it will also ensure the viability of the single currency and the confidence of the markets. sanctions against irresponsible states will no longer be left to the arbitrary bargaining of the council, but will be the subject of transparent measures implemented under the aegis of the european commission, comprising a preventive and a curative component, intended to restore sound management of public deficits. we must nevertheless be clear: these measures are essential, but they will not be sufficient. two conditions are intrinsically linked to the success of the system: a real investment in growth on the one hand, and a deeper integration and solidarity of the european economies on the other, thanks in particular to the creation of a european ministry of finance and the introduction of eurobonds. let us not shrink from this historic occasion.
in writing. prevention is better than cure! the serious difficulties faced by most member states today were directly revealed by the crisis of 2008. let's stop making decisions when it's too late and we have no choice! it is easier and cheaper to anticipate and deal with problems in depth in advance than to deal with them superficially afterwards. this is the whole point of this directive, which aims to guarantee transparency, accountability and budgetary coordination in the euro area. to avoid the mistakes of the past, we take responsibility for the introduction of a preventive component in this monitoring, which i regard as the necessary complement to the corrective component. the commission will have the legitimacy to carry out this monitoring and will thus be able to warn states which do not respect the rules they have accepted. the aim is to take the bull by the horns while there is still time, before the sovereign debt crisis reaches the proportions it has reached in greece. these measures are, in my view, an essential step towards strengthening our single currency and returning to growth and stability.
in writing. if a financial and economic crisis in the euro area is to be prevented, effective budgetary surveillance is important. that is why i voted in favour of the goulard report, which proposes a series of sanctions against member states which depart from the stability and growth pact. the member states meeting in council will thus be able to punish a 'bad pupil' by means of recommendations or by asking him to make a deposit, with or without interest, to correct his excessive deficit. if these measures prove insufficient, he will have to pay a fine. interest on deposits and fines will be allocated to the european financial stability facility and then to the european stability mechanism, which will replace it in 2013. the european parliament is associated with these budgetary surveillance measures in the framework of the economic dialogue . the member state concerned by the sanctions will thus be able to express its views on its budgetary situation to the council. finally, as part of the strengthening of economic governance, the european commission will prepare a report on euro-bonds by the end of the year.
in writing. the 'six-pack' gives more weight to the current stability and growth pact (sgp), through better quality controls and earlier deficits and debt. it innovates by forcing policy makers to act quickly to restore the health of economies threatened by macroeconomic imbalances, such as bubbles in the housing price sector or a decline in competitiveness. finally, it aims to ensure that statistics, which are essential for sound budgetary decisions and budgetary control, are more accurate, in particular through more independent collection. but this text is only a first stone in the building. other decisions will have to be taken to strengthen economic governance (creation of a european monetary fund and a bond market, mutualisation of part of the debt, etc.). likewise, decisive action in favour of education, innovation and competitiveness will be needed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the six reports in the legislative package on the reform of economic governance because it provides a number of answers to the serious crisis facing the european union, but also and above all because, in the face of the great instability we are currently experiencing, confidence must be restored. these measures will certainly not bring europe out of the rut it is in, but they provide the first foundations for what we must move towards. i am thinking in particular of the creation of a genuine economic government for the euro area, the mutualisation of debt, the introduction of euro-bonds and the creation of a financial transaction tax, all 'measures' which i have been calling for for many months.
in writing. i voted against the goulard report because it does not in any way ensure a lasting solution to the financial, economic and social crisis. by limiting itself to a punitive dimension, the economic governance package locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and investment for the future, this report makes citizens pay for the crisis by stifling growth and destroying jobs, and will therefore effectively prevent the return to budgetary balance. the consolidation of public finances must not be achieved without a policy of growth and recovery, and this economic governance package is nothing but an abdication in the face of the omnipotence of the financial markets and rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. this report sets out the sanctions that will be imposed on those states which do not comply with the european commission's injunctions. it is not concerned for a moment about the consequences of such sanctions on the people and the legitimacy of the commission to sanction elected governments. the only exception proposed is public debates to be held in the european parliament on the proposal of the european parliament. not in the state concerned. shouldn't the people be involved in the plot that's being played out against them? i pledge myself never to let the commission strike france. i vote against it.
in writing. in the light of the greek crisis and the worrying situation in several other member states with very large deficits, it is essential to ensure that fiscal discipline is a reality in the future. i am relieved that the long months of tough negotiations on the 'governance package' between parliament and the council have finally come to fruition - although i would of course have liked it to happen sooner. the regulation, which concerns budgetary surveillance in the euro area, establishes a system of sanctions - a deposit of 0.2% of the gdp of the member state in default, with or without interest - aimed at better enforcing the preventive and corrective components of the stability and growth pact. it also aims to combat inaccurate statements by member states on their public deficit or public debt data by means of a system of fines for those who have been negligent. the text also calls on the commission to submit a report to parliament and the council before the end of 2011 on the possibility of issuing 'euro bonds'. i look forward to the commission's next steps in this direction.
in writing. the current crisis has shown that member states are suffering rather than acting. the european union has therefore decided to put forward a package of six proposals aimed at strengthening european economic governance. i therefore support a more involved and ambitious europe in this area so that it can anticipate any new crisis. to this end, the european union has decided to set up a new system capable of preventing macroeconomic imbalances, especially trade imbalances. this system, which is also included in the haglund report, will introduce a series of measures which will complement those contained in the ferreira report. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european stability mechanism (esm) to support the implementation of the euro. as i am in favour of increased economic surveillance, i voted in favour of the haglund report.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on this report. it provides for sanctions by member states in the event of macroeconomic imbalances without providing itself, or the legislative package to which it belongs, with the economic governance structures that europe so badly needs. at a time when the crisis is striking deeply at the heart of the european people, the european parliament cannot send the message of austerity, which is incomprehensible, inexplicable to the citizens and which is damaging to the european project. moreover, this report is not ambitious enough. we must be careful not to run public deficits, but not at the expense of social justice and the investment in the future that is necessary for a sustainable economy. in other words, we need more europe to deal with the crisis: a more complete fiscal, social and political union and a european budget with its own resources.
in writing. i abstained on the haglund report, in order not to jeopardise the proper application of the provisions in the ferreira report on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. the fact remains that the economic governance package locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and investment for the future, this package is making citizens pay for the crisis, stifling growth and destroying jobs. this package is nothing but an abdication to the all-powerful financial markets and rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. the regulation will enable the commission to impose annual fines on states which fail to comply with its authority. the sums thus obtained will be allocated to the eu-imf stability fund, the effects of which are being felt by the greek, irish and portuguese peoples. the only drawback the council has made is a graduated deposit with interest and penalties which does not change the substance of the case. i am voting against this text.
in writing. we cannot have a common currency on the one hand and an uncoordinated management of public money on the other. the current events show that the lack of convergence and the imbalance between the european public accounts are breaches into which speculators seek to take advantage of the difficulties of the euro area. today we are reacting so that we do not leave this opportunity to the financial markets. for this, my political family has had the courage to allow the development of preventive and curative instruments which will strengthen the stability and growth pact. while the deficit-control method has so far relied on the goodwill of states, the commission now has the possibility of recommending financial sanctions, ranging from cash deposits to financial fines, for states that fail to meet their obligations. by adopting these measures to limit public deficits, the union is avoiding the devastating reflex of withdrawing into itself, is showing its determination to emerge from this crisis on the upside and, above all, is reminding that sharing a common currency requires maximum solidarity, but also sharing responsibilities.
in writing. in favour of a strengthening of the economic and monetary policy of the european union, i voted for the ferreira report. the report has two parts: a preventive and a corrective part. the european commission will be responsible for monitoring these imbalances in a preventive manner. as soon as an excessive imbalance is identified in a state, it will have to correct it by applying the council's recommendations. this report is in line with the haglund report, which complements the measures taken to tackle excessive imbalances.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on the economic governance package after lengthy negotiations. for us french and european socialists, it is an austerity pact which prevents the member states from reviving the economy and protecting themselves from the markets. in the end, only the proposals put forward by our colleague elisa ferreira will make it possible to provide concrete solutions to the macroeconomic imbalances undermining the sustainability and social foundations of the euro area. we reject the idea that greece is now held solely responsible for the worsening of the economic differences in the euro zone.
in writing. like the majority of my socialist colleagues, i voted against four of the six texts in the economic governance package. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances and abstained on the report on implementing measures to remedy macroeconomic imbalances. the commission has also been very active in the fight against unemployment, and has been very active in the fight against unemployment. the ferreira report was the only one to provide convincing solutions on this point. the report provides for the protection of social rights and the establishment of a wide range of economic indicators which will allow the situation in each country to be taken into account. it also advocates a symmetrical approach, pointing to the responsibility of the very surplus countries for the development of macroeconomic imbalances. i abstained on the haglund report, although i do not agree with its punitive content, because its adoption was necessary to enable the measures recommended in the ferreira report to be implemented.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on this report. it provides for increased surveillance of member states in the event of excessive macroeconomic imbalances without providing itself and the legislative package to which it belongs with the economic governance structures that europe so badly needs. at a time when the crisis is striking deeply at the heart of the european people, the european parliament cannot send the message of austerity, which is incomprehensible, inexplicable to the citizens and which is damaging to the european project. moreover, this report is not ambitious enough. we must be careful not to run public deficits, but not at the expense of social justice and the investment in the future that is necessary for a sustainable economy. in other words, we need more europe to deal with the crisis: a more complete fiscal, social and political union and a european budget with its own resources.
in writing. i voted for the ferreira report because the socialist and democratic group has made important progress in this text. budgetary surveillance will apply not only to deficit countries but also to those with large surpluses, so that they can support their domestic demand and thus limit internal imbalances in the euro area. the fact remains that the economic governance package locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and invest in the future, this package is making citizens pay for the crisis, stifling growth and destroying jobs. this package is nothing but an abdication to the all-powerful financial markets and rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. the commission will now be able to allocate good and bad points as it sees fit. it will itself set up the indicators which will enable it to rate states and to sanction them semi-automatically. all this is validated by the council, which accepts the logic of limited sovereignty that results from reverse majority voting. the only progress parliament has made on this text is particularly tenuous. the commission and the council would undertake to respect the role of the social partners and national parliaments and national wage-setting systems. it's the least i can do. but this commitment is effectively cancelled out by the euro plus pact and the european semester. that's a good one. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the current crisis shows that the euro area countries can no longer live beyond their means. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr diogo feio. because it is time for the states to assume their responsibilities. the european union, for example, as part of the 'economic governance package', is calling on member states to rapidly correct their excessive deficits. to achieve this, the union provides for a procedure to be followed, which is detailed in the report. this procedure will give the european union a stronger say in a country's deficit and debt. the aim is to bring the state's finances back on track more quickly. the european commission will thus be able to act in a shorter time and exert more pressure by increasing the number of visits to the site. the state that fails to meet its commitments may be punished by a fine, the amount of which will be allocated to the european financial stability facility and then to the european stability mechanism, which will replace it in 2013.
in writing. i voted against the feio report because it does not in any way ensure a lasting solution to the financial, economic and social crisis. by limiting itself to a punitive dimension, the economic governance package locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and investment for the future, this report makes citizens pay for the crisis by stifling growth and destroying jobs, and will therefore effectively prevent the return to budgetary balance. the consolidation of public finances must not be achieved without a policy of growth and recovery, and this economic governance package is nothing but an abdication to the omnipotence of the financial markets and the rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. this text requires the acceleration of the procedures for correcting member states' deficits. an even faster procedure will be implemented in the event of a 'planned and deliberate deficit'. if the commission and council do not comply with the instructions, the state will be sanctioned immediately. the only derogation provided for, except in the event of an economic catastrophe, is the introduction of a system of capitalisation pensions. the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports and reports, and it is not the council that has been the subject of this report. i vote against it.
in writing. better economic governance requires the establishment of minimum requirements at the budgetary level. these requirements will not only help avoid excessive deficits but also make it possible to be better prepared in the event of an economic downturn. this is why the european union, in the framework of the six proposals contained in the governance package, has decided to introduce measures which will make the member states' budgetary policies more transparent and better managed by the publication of macroeconomic forecasts and the independence of statistical systems. these measures are reflected in the ford report, which calls for greater independence of the statistical apparatus. i am in favour of strengthening the budgetary frameworks of the member states and have therefore voted in favour of the ford report.
in writing. i voted against the ford report because it does not in any way ensure a lasting solution to the financial, economic and social crisis. the 'economic governance' package, which is confined to a punitive dimension, locks member states into austerity policies. instead of providing policies to stimulate consumption and investment for the future, this report makes citizens pay for the crisis by stifling growth, destroying jobs and thus effectively preventing the return to budgetary balance. the consolidation of public finances must not be achieved without a policy of growth and recovery, and this economic governance package is nothing but an abdication to the omnipotence of the financial markets and the rating agencies. there was another way; the european right will have to bear the heavy responsibility for not having chosen it.
in writing. this report sets up a 'european semester plus' by organising the control of the member states' multiannual budgetary frameworks. it requires the publication on a quarterly basis of the debt and deficit levels of each member state and the detailed accounts of all its central and local administrations, as is required of companies in the liberal model. the rating agencies can only use each other! i am voting against this text. the french will abolish it.
in writing. everyone remembers the shockwave caused by the discovery of the greek debt make-up. this accounting manipulation has triggered an unprecedented crisis for the euro area. one year after this revelation, the council and our assembly have learned from this failure by adopting a directive to harmonize the methods of auditing public accounts. this directive will ensure greater transparency and better identification of national public accounting systems, which will be subject to independent audits. in addition, national budget forecasts will be regularly checked and compared with eurostat's budget forecasts and, in the event of significant differences, member states will be required to provide convincing justifications. some people are denouncing the loss of sovereignty that this text represents, but in this area the bankruptcy of the member states would be far more damaging than the convergence and transparency efforts we have just adopted, which i welcome. i believe that this change is unavoidable: we could no longer benefit from a common currency and have an irresponsible management of public money; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. we have imposed new rules of the game which will strengthen the stability and growth pact. in concrete terms, we have given europe the means to monitor and, if necessary, to punish the most spending states. we have drawn the contours of european economic governance, in partnership with all countries. voting for this package of legislation was a matter of political responsibility to our fellow citizens and our economies. it's also a strong signal to the financial markets. finally, i welcome the announcement made by the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, ahead of this vote, of the creation of a financial transaction tax, which has long been the desire of president nicolas sarkozy and chancellor angela merkel. unlike the french socialist meps, we take responsibility. all member states have agreed to these principles, regardless of party divisions. i also see the wide divergence within the european left between those who are concerned with the affairs of their countries and are realistic, and those who still see the world through the prism of political ideology.
in writing. europe is sinking into crisis, the member states have abandoned all means of action and the european union has shown that its political project to stifle national economies is failing. european integration at any cost is obviously blocked, and the illegitimate and irresponsible rulers are offering us, as usual, the chance to escape. what blindness! strengthening 'european economic governance' would mean turning the executioner into a surgeon without changing his methods or his tools. we must give the economy a new lease of life. we must therefore recover our national freedoms by accepting the necessary efforts, by establishing the necessary cooperation and by protecting our jobs and our markets.
in writing. following the speech by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, on the work of the united nations human rights council, a motion for a resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity was tabled by the european parliament. as president of the association 'women at the centre', i am deeply committed to respect for fundamental rights and to the fight against gender discrimination. that is why i supported this proposal.
in writing. once again, the european parliament is speaking out on issues that do not concern it and is promoting the unnatural theory of 'gender'. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and to be more involved in the fight against terrorism. the inherent dignity of the human person is one of the foundations of our civilization, and it is right to defend that dignity. however, there is no need to distinguish between categories of beneficiaries of fundamental rights on the basis of personal practices, opinions or choices. moreover, it is up to the nations, that is to say the member states, and not the technocratic european union, to decide on civil law issues and to defend their particular positions at the united nations.
in writing. the vote on this resolution is particularly important in defending the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people who still too often continue to be discriminated against and even subjected to violence within the european union. in this regard, we must welcome the work of the united nations in seeking to advance the rights of trans people and the recognition of gender identity. contrary to what some ump mps in france would have you believe, who recently asked the government to withdraw textbooks explaining the impact of the socio-cultural context on gender identity, it is important to stress that gender identity is not just about biology! finally, we must also insist that the gender and sexual orientation dimension be fully taken into account in the examination of asylum applications, in order to identify as early as possible the vulnerability of these people and the consequent need for adequate procedures.
in writing. the european union, so quick to lecture on human rights, should start by respecting the universal principle of equal rights. this joint resolution has the merit of recalling this and calling for respect for this right for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. nothing should affect the right of lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transsexuals to decent work on an equal basis with all other workers. nothing should call into question equality before all civil unions and the rights deriving from them, access to health care and social security. to do otherwise is to deny the equality of citizens which is the very foundation of democracy.
in writing. human rights are one of the ethical and legal foundations of the european union. it has always advocated and worked for their respect, promotion and protection. these efforts must continue. but it is also essential to recall and protect the indivisibility of these rights. they should apply to all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation or gender identity. the work in this direction is increasing in the major international forums and it was the duty of the european union to affirm its commitment to the protection of these rights for all. violations of these rights, whether through discriminatory practices or acts of violence, must cease as soon as possible. the european union must ensure that an open and respectful dialogue is established both within its territory and in its relations with third countries. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament in plenary session.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on human rights violations linked to sexual orientation and gender by a very large majority (442 votes in favour, 104 against) on wednesday. the question of the need to combat discrimination in this area is a universal one, both in the context of the union's external policy and within the member states themselves. it reaffirms the fundamental rights of lgbt people, including the right to family life. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the illegal trade in human beings and to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, minister, the number of poor and unemployed people in the european union is constantly increasing. more than 43 million europeans are at risk of food poverty. this is a very serious time. today, six member states want to end the food aid programme without any alternative: germany, sweden, denmark, the united kingdom, the netherlands and the czech republic. there is a decision of the court of justice and we must respect it. however, commissioner, parliament called on you last july on the initiative of our green group, and you made some relevant proposals to safeguard the programme. the greens are prepared to work with you on long-term solutions, but since millions of people depend on this system, we cannot allow the food aid budget to be divided by four. the emergency is real. if nothing is done by the end of the year, food banks will be short of more than €300 million, and there is no guarantee that national governments will be able to take over to fill this gap. so it is a real question of solidarity between peoples. we must not allow a minority of irresponsible governments to deprive millions of europeans of food aid because it is, above all, a matter of survival. the fight against poverty and malnutrition also requires reform of the cap. we need to fundamentally change the way we produce in order to bring food production closer to the people - especially the poorest people - who also have the right to a healthy and balanced diet. only a truly sustainable cap will ensure that fewer europeans need food aid. the council must come to its senses and let those in need have recourse to this vital aid. i am particularly concerned about the future danish government, which will be responsible for the presidency of the european union in january. come to your senses! does it take the european hunger riots to make us realize the urgent need for a change in logic? when it comes to saving the banks, the council knows how to find solutions, but when it comes to saving the food banks, there is no one left! the last time parliament had strong words, it said: 'human beings are more important than finance.' it's high time we reaffirmed that. we will, however, be very vigilant and will certainly renew our appeal in a constructive way.
mr president, the council of european agriculture ministers has failed to oppose a 75 per cent cut in european food aid for the poorest. seventy-five percent of the time! we all see on the ground that the blocking of this matter by a minority of member states is causing a stir, a lack of understanding and exasperation among the public, the charitable associations and their volunteers and, of course, the beneficiaries. this situation undermines the union's credibility and image. citizens are sensing that europe is spending a lot of energy and resources to reassure the markets, as mr barroso's speech this morning showed, and that it is doing less and less to help the people who have been hit hardest by the crisis. this is fuelling a feeling of injustice and mistrust of the european institutions, potentially explosive on a social and democratic level. our assembly has taken up its responsibilities, commissioner - you said so - and so has the commission. let the states - including france, whose leaders are crying crocodile tears on this issue - agree. if they want to - as you said, commissioner, it is a matter of political will - then on monday this matter will be closed at the council of ministers for employment and social affairs. it should never have been opened out of solidarity and respect for the beneficiaries.
mr president, we see this with the euro crisis, we see it with the question of the food aid programme for the poorest: national selfishness is sadly back. the member states are retreating into themselves, and the principle of solidarity, which was the foundation and inspiration for the creation of europe, is being undermined every day. this is not acceptable. and it is even less so when it affects the poorest, those who face the greatest hardship and those who are in vital need of getting food aid from charitable organizations. there are now more than 13 million of them in europe and europe cannot and must not let them down. commissioner, you yourself have said it very well in all that you have said and written: 'the european union cannot fail.' the member states must therefore put an end to this unacceptable situation of deadlock. first and foremost, it is a question of the dignity of the most deprived and the poorest, especially at a time when the crisis is affecting our continent. but it is also a question of the dignity of our european institutions. in this fight, i say to the commission and to the presidency of the council, you must know that we are with you, that we are all here together and fully engaged in this fight.
mr president, beyond all the fine speeches we hear here, there is a double black spot on the front of our european union. firstly, can we simply accept the continuing increase in poverty as a natural phenomenon? i think it is rather the sign of the failure of this ultra-liberal europe, and austerity will only make it worse. secondly, there is the imminence of a food catastrophe, because we are about to cut off food aid to these very poor people when we should be increasing it. what are we talking about here? less than 500 million euros to feed 18 million people at least once every two days, while a 440 billion euro plan to secure the banks has been put in place. there is less agricultural intervention, as has been said, but there are still export subsidies, commissioner. so there are credits. on the other hand, we can also open a new chapter on 'social cohesion for the poorest'. i believe that this cannot be achieved by reducing the social and cohesion funds.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, for more than three years now the debate on the plan to help the poorest has been hopelessly bogged down in the council. this intolerable situation of gridlock is not acceptable. it is all the more unacceptable that the death sentence on this plan is being pronounced at the very moment when our continent is experiencing an economic and social crisis of unprecedented violence, which is plunging so many of our fellow citizens into turmoil. there are symbols that build europe and others that dangerously weaken it. let us not destroy today what was patiently built yesterday, especially at a time when the difficulties we are experiencing seem to be straining the bonds between our states and pushing people to nationalist sentiments that turn their backs on europe. the idea of the individual as a normal and acceptable reflex does not correspond to my idea of europe, nor does it correspond to the christian-democratic group to which i belong. our people deserve better! they deserve the europe we have been building together for over 50 years, but a europe that is not just an economic agreement. it is, on the contrary, the embodiment of values which we need to embrace more than ever, values which put people at the centre of political concerns. it is imperative to get out of fruitless legal debates today in order to make fair and responsible political decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's not here! the court of justice's ruling now creates an emergency situation which will soon affect 18 million europeans who are on food aid. the real question now is what our common vision of europe and its future is. i am convinced that its fate will not be in any way to be determined by the complete or partial renationalisation of food aid, even if only symbolically. let us not be mistaken, only together can we succeed in meeting the immense challenges facing us today. it is only by acting together, and by showing unity and solidarity, that we will be able to preserve the means of ensuring a future of prosperity for all our fellow citizens on our continent. commissioner, you have proposed measures in a courageous way, it is high time that ...
mr president, yes, my arms fall, as they used to say in my village, when i see in this house today both the commissioner, the polish presidency and all the other members, whatever the benches they are sitting on, being of the same opinion on the scandalous and unworthy nature of this debate on the european programme of aid to the most deprived. this decision is utterly outrageous and unworthy. this is a completely irresponsible challenge on the part of the six states which are blocking or, we might say, unblocking at the moment. it is a political signal which could be fatal to what we are trying to build. i therefore solemnly call on our colleagues - as marc has just done - who are all in agreement today, our german, british, swedish, danish, dutch and czech colleagues, to put pressure on their states to stop this undignified position of our european union, this political signal which could be fatal to it.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, europe is not just a monetary or economic union. our fellow citizens expect different things, especially in times of economic and social crisis. no one can understand that for simple legal reasons 18 million people are deprived of the basic right to food, a vital right recognized by our conventions. we therefore welcome the commissioner's comments and ask each of our colleagues to urge their respective governments to ensure that the council takes a proper position. the only position that can be taken here, especially since community funds are available, is to allow the continuation of this food aid to which our fellow citizens must be entitled under decent and dignified conditions. it's a matter of dignity, and it's a matter of solidarity.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, this is not a question of subsidiarity, because social aid and the fight against poverty are the business of everyone in the european union. it is not a subsidiary issue, because it is a major issue: it is about enabling people in dire poverty not to give alms, but to feed themselves. no member state may depart from these objectives. the president of the european commission told us this morning that it was time for the financial sector to pay for the damage of this crisis. we say that it is also time for the budget of the european union to continue to support the remarkable work being done on the ground by those who run the food banks to give people in extreme poverty a little dignity. we will not accept the idea of organizing solidarity between the poor and the poor. if this programme is to be financed - and it will probably have to be financed, under the social aid, from the european social fund - then compensation will have to be made. mr president-in-office of the council, we tell you that we will also be judging the outcome of your presidency on the basis of your ability to resolve this matter as a matter of urgency, as from monday.
mr president, commissioner, i will not repeat what everyone has already said, but i think that europe does have a real credibility problem today with what is happening. we are being sued, and we are being told on the one hand that there is european policy and on the other that there is state policy. but if the treaty of rome in 1958 says that we must guarantee food for all europeans and food security, then we are in a european policy. this is not a matter of state policy! today, this situation shows, in addition to the selfishness of a number of states, that what we lack is not more europe but rather a lack of european will on the part of a number of heads of state and government. i would like to congratulate the european commissioner, mr cioloş, who, in an article in the newspaper le monde, had the courage to say that this policy was indispensable for the poorest of europeans. if we are not able to challenge the council's decision, this europe will be disowned by its citizens.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone here agrees that the edp is a tangible and effective expression of the union's solidarity. unfortunately, a minority of irresponsible member states are obstinately blocking this matter in the council for ideological and financial reasons. today, citizens are looking at us and they do not understand that europe is not doing enough to tackle the challenge of poverty. this untimely political stance is bad for the image of the eu: at a time when the vulnerability of the poorest is at its highest as winter approaches, we are putting at risk the vital work of the european food banks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not a one-off, but a one-off, programme. the council is now in the driver's seat and it is imperative that it comes to its senses at the next meeting of the agriculture ministers. the commission and parliament have proposed a new legal basis for this programme, and the council can no longer hide behind the law!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr council representative, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the context of preparation for the fourth earth summit is difficult. of course, it is up to us to deal with the financial and economic crisis in the euro area. but one crisis does not drive out another, and they are often linked. yes, the debt crisis is not just affecting greece and european finances. the crisis is not just financial. it is also a social and ecological crisis that we must put an end to. we are now in an ecological deficit. we started our credit forty years ago and since then, the debt has been growing. inequality is growing, and the problems are getting worse every year: climate change, deforestation, the collapse of fish stocks and the loss of biodiversity are the most obvious signs. there's only one solution for mankind: to pay off its debt. and to do that, it's up to the world's leaders to act together, now, not ten years from now, in 2012. i believe that the european union has a key role to play and that the fourth earth summit in rio in june 2012 is the ideal framework for making new commitments, for changing our economic development models. for a new green economy. yes to an economy that consumes fewer resources, is more equitable, and is part of ecological sustainability and social justice. yes to new indicators going beyond gdp. yes to the principle of bio-conditionality, but no to the commodification and privatisation of common goods. not to replicate the patterns that got us where we are today. and yes to an international status for environmental refugees. yes to more accountability, justice and environmental democracy. we, the elected officials, twenty years later, what do we have to say to severn suzuki? what will we say if another child rises up in rio in june 2012 and expresses to us his fear of the future, his incomprehension of the inequalities that exist on the planet and begs us to act before it is too late? the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is one element of the answer. this resolution, as voted by the committee on the environment of this parliament, is an ambitious, voluntary and responsible position. and i call on my colleagues not to weaken it. i call on the commission and the council to give it the scope it deserves at the highest level, for sustainable development on a global scale. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, as the united nations environment programme states, the concept of the green economy is complementary to the concept of sustainable development. it's not meant to replace it. with this resolution we are affirming that we are finally putting the economy at the service of sustainable development, and not delegating the management of the ecological crisis to multinationals and financial institutions. we can no longer simply call for the establishment of new market mechanisms and new technologies. steering and transition to a green economy will necessarily be based on the consideration of externalities and new approaches to economic performance. new complementary gdp indicators to measure the progress of societies, following the work of the committee chaired by amartya sen, joseph stiglitz and jean-paul fitoussi, will therefore have to be discussed in rio. for better governance, the unep must be made a full-fledged un institution. we must also succeed in creating this world environmental organization of which we have been talking for too long, an organization to which an international criminal court will have to be attached to try serious environmental crimes. it is also necessary to involve civil society fully. in this respect, the committee on world food security is a very good model of governance. the rio+20 conference will be one of the key civil society demands for a mandate to negotiate the development of an international convention on technology assessment. this seems to me to be a crucial point and i would ask the council to mention this in its conclusions. different technologies have different environmental, social and economic, and even geopolitical, consequences that should be assessed. are we going to let powerful technologies like synthetic biology or geoengineering develop without any control? such a convention on technology assessment would be fully in line with european practice and law. it's an emergency. it is high time to move on to decisions and achievements.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1992 earth summit in rio, the concept of sustainable development has been becoming more and more commonplace among the inhabitants of this planet and, in particular, among our fellow citizens in europe. i would like to say how much i agree with mr kraszewski and mr bennahmias. yes, the un environment programme must be strengthened by a un agency, or indeed a new world environmental organization with real means of action must be created. in the meantime, i welcome the european union's ambition, as expressed by this parliament, to play a leading role in the future discussions, and in particular those planned for june 2012 in rio. i therefore approve the outline of the resolution drawn up by the committee on the environment and i would like to thank my colleague mr florenz for his patience with me. however, one point particularly worries me: as you know, article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states, very clearly, that the choice of the energy mix is a national and solely national competence. some colleagues apparently do not attach any value to the treaty and would like the european union to ask the whole world to abandon nuclear energy all of a sudden. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the nuclear power stations in the member states. we will only be credible on realistic prospects. i think that if parliament is going to take this route and send this kind of message to the world, i will unfortunately not be able to vote for the resolution that will be put to the vote tomorrow. commissioner, sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs. nuclear energy contributes directly to this sustainable development by being one of the lowest co2-emitting sources of energy. it is therefore clear to me that the response to fukushima must be to ensure an optimal level of nuclear safety and to promote this requirement at international level. we need higher safety standards and better controls, with full transparency!
in writing. first of all, i strongly oppose paragraph 46 which provides for the closure of nuclear power stations and prohibits the construction of any new infrastructure. we must not be alarmed by the recent events. the safety of any nuclear power plant must be strictly monitored. that's my first concern. however, this paragraph is irresponsible. nuclear energy is a key part of our energy resources: 78% of our electricity is nuclear. nuclear energy guarantees us energy independence and stability of supply. moreover, nuclear energy remains the cleanest and most reliable form of energy today. at the moment we cannot afford to do so. the resolution is also disproportionate. the environment must be protected, but we must also be realistic and not penalize our economies by excessive ecological requirements. this resolution calls into question this delicate balance and goes beyond the measures necessary to protect the environment. i therefore intend to abstain on this report.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the tunisian people have indeed shown an immense spirit of generosity towards the thousands of people who have fled libya. humanitarian aid and technical assistance from the european union have not been lacking, as you said. today, there are about 5,000 who qualify for refugee status. yes, mr tannock, they are eritreans, ethiopians, somalis, sudanese, and you know very well that they cannot return to their countries. they live in horrible conditions in the middle of the desert, i've seen it. unhcr has examined 2,500 applications based on resettlement promises, including 1,500 from the united states and some 400 from norway, more than the combined efforts of the european union member states. yeah, only seven of them have accepted refugees. in particular, your country, commissioner, sweden, which has accepted almost 200. the rest, france and britain, although parties to the libyan conflict, have categorically refused any request for refugees. i do not think this debate is acceptable. i think we could make a small effort of generosity and i am prepared to join my colleagues in making an appeal to those countries which refuse to lend a hand. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
madam president, i apologize to mr tannock, but you are more responsible than usual. you dare to say here that you have been in these countries and they cannot return to your country. you're making fun of the world, excuse me. it seems to me that you are not black, you are not one of the inhabitants of these countries, you have no problem with the leaders of these countries. these are militants who, for the most part, fled these countries for democratic reasons! you support democracy, all over the world, so please don't say such nonsense!
madam president, may i ask the speaker whether he accepts the decisions of the unhcr and what the decisions of the unhcr mean to him? i repeat what mrs sargentini has just said to you and what the commissioner said earlier: 'we are talking about only 5 000 people who are in a situation of political refugees.' this is not about economic migrants or your so-called economic migrants. they are a very special people!
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, i too would like to commend the openness shown by the tunisian government and people in recent months towards tens of thousands of refugees, even as the country was going through the turmoil of a revolution. i would also like to point out that it would have been important for our parliament to have celebrated this great change in tunisia in a more visible way. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my hope that the elections next month will be a genuine democratic and popular success. i come back to the refugees on tunisian territory. my colleagues from other groups and i made a visit in july, as you have been told. we went especially to the camp at cusha, on the border of libya. it's a place where almost 20,000 people a day found refuge during the height of the crisis. they have all suffered from extremely difficult living conditions. after the evacuations you mentioned, madam, in the countries of origin, more than 5 000 people, who have been given the unhcr's qualification of 'refugees' - and this is indisputable - 5 000 of them are still stuck in camps like this. they have no prospect of returning to their countries of persecution, war, famine and violence, while their countries still exist. but they are also unable to find solutions in other countries, because most eu member states are deaf and dumb to the question of strengthening resettlement systems. we all have, roughly, the same numbers, the same sources. for example, for the 2 400 people whose return to resettlement was validated in mid-september, only 650 places were offered, less than half in the member states, and at the end of the run just under 200 refugees were actually resettled elsewhere. of course, the member states, and also norway, which have made these proposals, should be congratulated. but many member states - and not the least of them, in size and power - have made absolutely no resettlement proposals for these refugees from libya. not one, you hear! they argue that they are already very active in the current resettlement process. we'll say down the river. it should be true, but it's not. so there is reason to be very angry at such cynicism. moreover, the lack of reaction and perspective on resettlement has a direct and dramatic consequence. with no hope of returning home, these refugees are pushed into the arms of smugglers to take to the sea and try everything for everything, risking their lives! so the question that needs to be asked is quite simple: how many deaths at sea will it take for the member states to finally react? at the time of the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the geneva convention - as you have mentioned, madam president - many of us feel that the member states of the european union have a special responsibility towards refugees. they need to make relocation proposals and they need to do it fast. we will be with you to put pressure on them!
madam president, madam commissioner, how long are we going to ask the tunisians indirectly to bear the dramatic consequences of our mismanagement of aid to refugees? the solidarity shown by tunisian society is running out. the health situation and the increase in disease in the camps can no longer leave us indifferent. it is clear that we, the european union, have failed in several respects. an inhumane migration policy, shameful humanitarian aid measures in the face of enormous needs on the ground, a failure of european solidarity, undermining the very foundations of our europe. how do we see ourselves as european human rights defenders? what support does the european union have for the peoples who have made their democratic revolution today? we have the means to help these refugees, but without political will and without concrete force, the mediterranean will remain a graveyard. is this acceptable, can we continue like this? we need to rethink the question of refugees and migration from a human rights perspective that takes account of new political situations. the security approach and the dust-clearing of frontex are not up to our challenges and values. in the short, medium and long term, eu financial assistance should be directed towards capacity building of civil society in tunisia in particular and in the southern countries more generally. finally, i would like to emphasize in closing that today's immigrants are a resource, not a burden. am i not an example of that? immigrant yesterday, mep today
i'm the reporter. - mr president, the european globalisation adjustment fund was revised in june 2009 to extend its scope to crisis situations. at that time, the co-financing was increased from 50 to 65% and the number of redundant employees was reduced from 1 000 to 500 in order to facilitate the use of this instrument. these provisions, and this enlargement, in a way, will end on 31 december this year, obviously in a context where the crisis situations - the president of the commission told us so strongly yesterday, and everyone mentioned it in the subsequent debate on the state of the union - are not closed, to say the least. in this context, it seems to us absolutely essential to extend this system as it stands, that is to say by allowing this recourse in the event of 500 redundancies, either in a pool of jobs or in a company, and to allow co-financing. that is the main message that this parliament wants to convey, especially to the council, which we urgently ask - i perhaps regret that it is not here to hear our message - to unblock this situation. it would be quite paradoxical if, at a time when greece is at stake, one of the proposed tools, namely the mobilisation of the structural funds to deal with crisis situations - where we have already adapted the system to this end - were not extended. in our resolution we give some indications of the future reform that the commission will propose to us, and that is the subject of our debate this morning. in this future revision, parliament proposes, for example, that the situations of restructuring and those of multinationals, which may possibly use this mechanism to compensate for their relocation strategy, be examined. but we also indicate and, as the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, as you know, we examine, on a case-by-case basis, each mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. we appreciate how valuable this tool is in bringing to life a concept that is at the heart of the european union's strategy, the europe 2020 strategy, in bringing to life social innovation so that, when a situation linked to the effects of globalisation and the crisis is to be examined, there is a mobilization of social dialogue and that the situation of each person is examined according to his or her ability to enter phases of transition, training to be able to take on new jobs tomorrow and return to work. it is, from the point of view of european legislation, a very exemplary tool. of course, there are things that will probably need to be re-examined, refined, corrected, but this is not the time. we shall have this debate in the context of the financial perspective, the new proposals which the commission will put on the table. the urgent need now is not to interrupt this system by 31 december this year and to allow it to be extended. i hope this house will join us. we shall then have a debate on the conditions under which this fund is to be applied to multinational companies and on the conditions for its sustainability in budgetary terms, in order to ascertain exactly where these resources should be allocated in order to finance this action.
mr president, i support mrs pervenche berès' proposal to extend the duration of the european globalisation adjustment fund and to lower the threshold of 500 employees. i would even like, to be honest, that the employees of small and mediumsized enterprises, who are perhaps the first victims of capitalist globalisation, should also have access to it in ways that are yet to be determined. but more fundamentally, i would like europe not only to put money into a social treatment of globalisation, but to put in place mechanisms against redundancies and relocations, providing for financial penalties for large multinational companies that lay off people just to increase their profits, as the real actors of capitalist globalisation as we know it. on the other hand, i also believe that the fund should be used more for the reintegration of employees into employment and for their continuing training.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate, because i think they have helped to clarify the debate. the council is not here, but i hope it will hear the strong message that this european parliament is about to give. we call for the council to be allowed to take the decision without delay and for the use of the globalisation adjustment fund to be extended in the context of the crisis. we have heard you, commissioner, and we see that you are sensitive to the important concerns that have been expressed throughout this debate on the question of multinational strategies which must be included in the commission's work programme and on which we hope to have proposals. a number of categories were then mentioned. is there a special need for young people? my colleague pronsias de rosas said: "just because we take care of the young does not mean that we should not take care of the workers". in the same way, you mention the situation of farmers who may be eligible for this fund tomorrow. but again, let us not organise solidarity between the poor and the poor or between the victims of the crisis and the victims of the trade agreements. if we are going in this direction, then everyone must take responsibility and the resources made available to the fund must be adapted accordingly. finally, i would like to reiterate how essential it is for us, for this parliament, that the fund can be used in accordance with the administrative arrangements in each of the member states and the quality of the social dialogue. many of my colleagues have asked themselves: 'but why are there no requests for the mobilisation of the fund in this or that country?' well, i think that if europe is to be a melting pot for improving the administrative capacity of the member states, the mobilisation of the fund is a very good laboratory; it is, once again, a good tool that europe needs. and if tomorrow the council were to take the decision to refuse to extend this fund and the ability to mobilise it in the context of the crisis, it would take on a heavy responsibility, because it would send the signal that at the moment when the crisis hits even more severely than before, the means of support that europe offers to workers are being cut off. that would be the bed of euroscepticism. we ask the council to listen to the message of this parliament.
in writing. concerned about the concerns of european workers in this crisis, i have endorsed the berès report which calls for an extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund is needed to help people who have been made redundant and it helps to strengthen european solidarity.
in writing. i have approved the berès report to extend the european globalisation adjustment fund until the end of 2013. this extension is intended to help workers made redundant as a result of the current crisis. the resolution on the future of this fund leaves me more doubtful. the existence of the european union is proof that the union can be aware that globalisation is a job-destroying phenomenon in europe, even if it underestimates it and does so for propaganda purposes. i regularly vote in favour of aid from this fund because it is intended for workers and not for companies and because it is, in a way, only a fair but insufficient contribution by the union to repairing the damage it causes. but the fund should be only transitional aid pending the implementation of major changes in political orientations, including the union's trade policy. but it is not, it is the opposite. in these circumstances, the proposed continuation, whether in the form of a new structural fund or a dedicated budget line, seems to me both ridiculous and demagogic.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis which is having a severe impact on employment in the european union requires a strong european response adapted to the diversity of situations in the various member states of the european union. the creation of the globalisation adjustment fund was a response to this need and to the difficulties that thousands of europeans, victims of the crisis, unfortunately can and do face. and in the current economic context, which is unfortunately likely to last for several months, it is absolutely necessary to make this european fund last. i therefore voted in favour of extending the european globalisation adjustment fund until the end of 2013. i also supported the creation of a separate budget line for this european globalisation adjustment fund. finally, i supported the alignment of the co-financing rate of the egf with the rate applicable to the structural funds. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the best examples of social solidarity that europe can offer in the face of the global crisis and it is therefore essential to make it sustainable.
in writing. this report proposes to extend until 2013 the funding of re-employment incentives under the european globalisation adjustment fund in the context of collective redundancies due to the economic and financial crisis. in the face of the crisis and its instigators, what we need is not a palliative of 500 miserable millions of euros but a change of policy. we must fight off-shoring, relocate the economy, remove the powers of the rating agencies, prohibit the commission from sanctioning governments that use budgetary margins to boost their economies. the european union is doing the opposite, deciding day after day. i abstain because of the blackmail on the allocation of aid to workers which this arrangement implies.
in writing. report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. more than globalisation, the global economic crisis we have been experiencing since 2008 is having a severe impact on our industries and our citizens. the european union therefore had to act as quickly as possible; it did so by temporarily extending the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the consequences of the crisis. i'm glad to hear it. three quarters of the aid applications are currently for the reintegration or conversion of employees made redundant as a result of the crisis. 45 000 workers have been able to receive this valuable aid. we could not envisage stopping these efforts after 31 december 2011 as required by the current regulation. the economic crisis is continuing, affecting new countries and new people, whom the european union cannot and must not deprive of support. by wishing to maintain the fund's derogating provisions until 2013, we have therefore sent a strong signal towards a social europe. i welcome the vote on mrs berès's resolution in this respect.
in writing. the european parliament urges the member states to adopt a common position in response to the palestinian authority's candidacy for statehood, submitted to the united nations. this is a crucial moment for the middle east peace process. europe has a key role to play in the issue of an improved status for palestine at the un and in supporting the two-state solution. the eu must not be limited to the role of sole funder and the member states must speak with one voice. that is the almost unanimous position of this parliament.
in writing. on 23 september last we were present at the united nations general assembly for the official request for recognition of palestine, despite the american veto, the israeli protests and the hesitations of european leaders. in the face of this confusion i have decided to support this resolution which recognises as legitimate the palestinian demand for full recognition. at the same time, the resolution reaffirms israel's right to exist within secure borders and calls for a halt to rocket fire. moreover, while negotiations between the palestinians and the israelis have been at a standstill for several months following the resumption of illegal settlement activity by the jewish state, we call for the resumption of direct talks between the two sides as soon as possible, as there will be no resolution of the conflict without a negotiated solution.
in writing. the fundamental right of the palestinian people to a state must be enshrined by the un. the european union, like many countries, must recognize this state within the 1967 borders. the union must also condemn the unacceptable decisions of the israeli government, which, just three days after mahmoud abbas' speech at the un, is launching a new settlement project in east jerusalem. the eu-israel association agreement must be suspended. the peace process begins with respect for international law. it is high time that the israeli government and its ally the united states respected it. this is the condition for a just and lasting peace for the two states of palestine and israel, which will have to live next to each other tomorrow.
in writing. the settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict is of fundamental importance to the israeli and palestinian peoples, who have lived in an unsustainable situation for far too long. it is also for the peoples of the entire region, as well as for the international community. europe must intensify its efforts and do everything possible to ensure that a peaceful, just and lasting settlement of this conflict is finally possible. but europe cannot play the role it should play unless it speaks with one voice. i support the text of this resolution, in which parliament urges the european union and the member states to defend a single position and to continue to play an active role, including within the quartet, in order to achieve a settlement of this conflict. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. it is by speaking with one voice that europe can make itself heard on the international stage. we must move in that direction.
in writing. i co-signed this resolution and supported it during the vote in plenary because it is now essential that the european parliament sends a signal. the status quo that has persisted for many years in the middle east is no longer acceptable and must end. we must now demand a genuine solution, namely the immediate resumption of negotiations, with a tight timetable and on the basis of 1967. despite the efforts of the high representative of the european union, despite the massive support of european citizens and despite the current context of the arab spring, the member states are still unable to speak with one voice: that of peace. this resolution, which will be transmitted to them, urges them to unite and work together, including within the quartet, for a speedy and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
in writing. i have of course voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on palestine, even though it does not go as far as we would like, because it is taking steps in the right direction. the resolution calls on the member states to speak with one voice in support of the legitimate demand of the palestinian people to be represented as a state at the united nations. it nevertheless supported the idea of negotiations and called for them to be concluded during the current 66th session of the united nations general assembly. if the european parliament could have been more firm, for example, on the demand for the withdrawal of the settlements, the legitimacy of a palestinian state at the next session of the united nations is clearly affirmed. this is a further element in favour of the palestinian people, who, in the context of the arab spring, are more determined than ever to defend their rights and freedoms.
in writing. it is regrettable that the situation on the ground is not improving and the lack of any sign of openness on either side does not give us cause for optimism. the solution is known: a state of israel and a palestinian state living side by side in peace, security and prosperity, within the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as their common capital. our resolution, adopted by a large majority, makes an unequivocal appeal for the immediate resumption of negotiations, otherwise the situation will only get worse. there is also concern that the israeli-palestinian conflict is increasingly crystallizing tensions between israel and the arab countries. in a context already troubled by the arab revolutions, it seems more necessary than ever to make every possible diplomatic effort and to confront the protagonists with their historical responsibilities. in this context, i welcome the initiative of president sarkozy, who has proposed a roadmap to achieve recognition of palestine by the end of 2012. for too long, the united states has used its leadership to monopolize the negotiations. it is time for europe, the main financial contributor to the palestinian authority, to take up the mantle.
in writing. sustainable development is becoming more and more a part of our daily lives. i welcome this resolution which calls on the european union to play a leading role in the negotiations in rio in june 2012. however, one point in the draft resolution concerned me particularly. while article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu states that the choice of the 'energy mix' is a national competence, the greens wanted the eu to suddenly ask the whole world to get out of nuclear energy... and this even though some countries within it are producers of nuclear energy and others are large consumers of it! what right did the european parliament have to make itself look like a lesson-giver? we should not forget that nuclear energy contributes directly to sustainable development by emitting very little co2. i am therefore pleased that the amendment we tabled calling for 'an optimal level of nuclear safety and promoting this requirement at international level' was adopted by a very large majority and that the idea of a general nuclear phase-out was rejected. we need higher safety standards and better controls, with transparency!
in writing. in the run-up to the next united nations conference on sustainable development, to be held in rio de janeiro, brazil, in june 2012, the european parliament today expresses its full commitment to sustainable development as a priority in national policies; the concept of a green economy is complementary to sustainable development. in this resolution we believe that we must adopt a road map to put the economy back in the service of sustainable development. rio + 20 will have to lead to concrete actions in the areas of water which we consider to be a public good , energy we remember that fossil fuels contribute to the greenhouse effect and that we need to develop renewable energy and agriculture which should be organic, sustainable and small-scale. another important point is the creation of the world environmental organization, which we have been talking about for too long, and which will have to be joined by an international criminal court to try serious environmental crimes.
in writing. 20 years after the first earth summit, the phrase 'can do better' could be applied to european policies to reduce the ecological footprint: research and development in renewable energy is still not receiving the necessary investment; the european industrial policy is not innovative enough in recycling activities and the energy mix has yet to be developed throughout the european territory. it is time for governments to take strong action to ensure that the world's growing population shares its natural resources equitably and sustainably. we need a 'green economy roadmap' with new measures and quantified targets to achieve sustainable growth. industrialized countries also have a responsibility to promote sustainable development and the preservation of biodiversity in developing countries. the rio de janeiro summit in june 2012 cannot be missed. the european union will have to speak with one voice and stand firm in its quantified targets on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. the european parliament voted to support the use of nuclear energy in the future. i voted for this resolution, which is a step in the right direction. the dismantling of the nuclear industry would result in an explosion in energy prices for private individuals. it would also undermine the research and innovation efforts of a sector whose excellence is universally recognised worldwide. in these circumstances, i could not agree with the wishes expressed by my colleagues. if we naturally have to consider closing down plants which do not meet the criteria of the stress tests, we must have the courage to make the transition to the fourth generation plants which are safer.
in writing. as human beings, we have a special responsibility to preserve our environment and the planet on which we live. so it's not necessarily abnormal for us to think about these problems collectively. but as usual, the ideological assumptions behind parliament's resolutions are hard to accept. the guilt of man, especially of western man; the alleged need for a true world government; the desire for decrease in growth; the encouragement of international migration by the creation of the concept of "climate refugees"... these assumptions are, strangely enough, sometimes incompatible with other dogmas or principles which you defend elsewhere: for example, total freedom of world trade, which by definition leads to an explosion in international transport, with the resultant increase in pollution and fuel consumption. there is no question of relocating production, short circuits, defending food and industrial autonomy for european countries. it is clear that an ultra-liberal, market-oriented, globalised and financialised economic system is incompatible with concerns other than purely economic and financial ones.
in writing. the text calls for the phasing out of nuclear power stations and opposes the creation of new ones. it stresses that water is a public good and that access to water and sanitation are fundamental rights as enshrined by the united nations general assembly. it even advocates the establishment of an international status for climate and environmental refugees and the creation of an international environmental tribunal. i'm glad to see so many concessions to our theses. despite some weaknesses on biofuels, the absence of a denunciation of shale gas extraction which should be included in the text and the inability to demand that a binding agreement be reached at the rio summit, i am voting in favour of this text and welcome the undeniable progress it contains. i hope that this house will not deprive him of most of them.
in writing. today, 1.4 billion people live in extreme poverty and one in six of the world's population is undernourished. by 2050, tomorrow, the world's population is expected to reach at least 9 billion. this will further increase the pressure on the limited supply of natural resources we have and the management of the waste streams we produce. moreover, while climate change poses a serious threat to the world's population, greenhouse gases continue to increase. we urgently need to change our lifestyles and development models, finally shifting our focus to sustainability. the text of this resolution calls for sustainable development to be at the forefront of all eu processes and policies. i can only support this project! it also called on the commission and the council to ensure that the union would present a strong and unambiguous position to the un as a contribution to the negotiations to be launched in rio in early 2012, and to ensure that 'rio+20' did not end up in mere declarations of intent but instead translated into concrete actions and quantified and measurable objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament clearly advocates an offensive position of the european union in favour of sustainable development. the european parliament has made many observations, but it also recalls a number of proposals which i share without hesitation, such as: - the articulation of a global and local struggle; - the importance of linking sustainable development, reducing inequalities and respect for fundamental rights; - the citizens' ownership without which the political shift towards a real environmental policy cannot take place. the european parliament has again called for a financial transaction tax, but a large majority also favoured a requirement for optimum nuclear safety, which is a positive development in this respect. but let us not be deceived, because while grand speeches are helpful, they are not always followed by the actions they recommend. many governments and meps forget their promises when a decision is not liked by the financial world and the main economic decision-makers. i hope that the rio summit in june 2012 will produce strong decisions, unlike the copenhagen summit on climate change, whose results were not up to the challenge.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which calls on the council and the commission, in particular, to obtain concrete and quantified commitments from third countries in terms of reducing emissions, combating deforestation and overfishing and all human activities that are destructive to the environment. if the eu has decided to lead by example, through the energy-climate package, it cannot be the only one to fight global warming. emerging countries must join a global effort, or else they will ruin our action. as such, the eu's leadership in this race against the clock will only be credible if states reach an ambitious common position. every day the evidence is growing that the urgency of action is becoming more and more evident. if we want to preserve our quality of life, we cannot delay our efforts to adopt environmentally friendly lifestyles and production methods. the call of our assembly is to do so and i shall be very attentive to the preparatory acts and conclusions of this summit. the earth is our common home and the legacy we will leave to our children. they won't forgive us for failing.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) has proven its usefulness and relevance in the current economic and social crisis since its creation in 2006, and even more so since its revision and relaxation in 2009. by helping workers who are victims of the crisis, it is an expression of european solidarity. it is true that it is a tool for emergency management which may be rather slow, but its added value is obvious. we must therefore preserve it, and that is why we approve the extension of the derogation until the end of 2013. i am also in favour, as is the majority in this parliament, of continuing the egf beyond 2013. finally, i believe that this fund should be able to benefit from its own budget and therefore from a budget line. i regret that in the present period this idea has been rejected by the majority of the european parliament when the resolution was voted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as a tool, while recognising the necessary reforms that it will need to undergo in the coming years. while the egf was able to help 40% of the workers concerned to re-enter the labour market in 2009 in a difficult economic context, it must be acknowledged that it is, in a way, a very useful palliative for the absence of a european industrial strategy and the social damage caused by the relocation of large multinationals, which, in the end, often manage to overcome the difficulties encountered. in this context, it is important to emphasise that the social partners and local and regional authorities should be closely associated with the application procedure and should be involved in monitoring implementation and evaluating results for workers. finally, in future, the egf should be integrated into a european framework for the anticipation and management of restructuring and should emphasise the social responsibility of multinational companies, which are not unlikely to use this type of instrument to reduce the costs of restructuring that they have decided on their own.
in writing. the resolution has the merit of asking that the appropriations of the european globalisation adjustment fund not be used indirectly for multinationals. it insists that the social partners play a role from the allocation of funds to the evaluation of the measures implemented, through to the design of the services proposed. that's a good thing. but this text is in keeping with the logic of the europe 2020 strategy, which reinforces the crisis of which the workers concerned by this fund are the first victims. stitching up a piece of what you break is ineffective. this fund is a small potato. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on this report, which amends the criteria for the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund is used to finance a number of social schemes, in particular to help train displaced workers and facilitate their return to work. it is therefore difficult to vote against, but the name of the fund is already a programme and i refuse to support this system which also facilitates social dumping within the european union. worse still, the fund is concerned with the redundancies of large multinationals, which should be paying for the reintegration of their employees. the european peoples who are being hit hard by this crisis do not expect the european union to be a charity, or to replace the national states in their role as guarantors of national solidarity, but to finally implement a social europe that ensures that the rights of workers are put before the interests of shareholders. i note, however, that the european parliament is seeking to obtain more guarantees so that the appropriations cannot be used indirectly for these multinationals that lay off workers, as it has already done in the past, particularly with unilever. the fralibs are waiting for something else.
in writing. in a motion for a resolution, the european parliament asked the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. in supporting this motion for a resolution, i am committing myself to the application of the treaty of lisbon, which provides that the european parliament must give its consent to any international agreement concluded by member states.
in writing. i welcome the rejection by the european parliament of the draft resolution requesting the referral to the court of justice of the european union to verify the compatibility of the eu/morocco fisheries agreement with the treaties. this interim fisheries partnership agreement extends the old fisheries agreement and will end on 27 february 2012. we must approve the interim agreement quickly. a referral would lead to a lengthy procedure and risk interrupting fishing opportunities from february 2012. this agreement is important for the european fleet because of its commercial importance. it allows vessels flying the flags of 10 member states to access moroccan waters under good conditions. it is also important for the moroccans, who have fulfilled their commitments, in particular in terms of support for small-scale fishing along the entire coastline for which they are responsible, including the coast of western sahara. for the period after 27 february 2012, a new agreement will be negotiated between morocco and the european commission.
in writing. the eu court of justice will not have to rule on the new protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. while his opinion might have helped to dispel the legal uncertainty surrounding the inclusion of western sahara in the protocol, it would also have put a brake on the agreements being negotiated with morocco. which wouldn't have been a good sign. however, in the coming weeks we will have to work on improving these agreements, particularly the agreement on agriculture. our parliament must demand that the future agreement be balanced and protect both small moroccan farmers and european fruit and vegetable producers. similarly, only imports of agricultural products which comply with european standards on consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection and minimum social standards should be allowed into the european union.
in writing. i abstained on this resolution because, as the commission has confirmed to us, referral to the court of justice of the european union implies a freeze on the approval procedure in parliament, even though the period of validity of the fisheries protocol with morocco will end in february. in order to avoid a deadlock in the decision-making process in parliament, which is unfortunately consulted far too late, i therefore preferred to abstain, considering that it was not this resolution that should be the subject of the debate but the protocol. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the fishing agreement with morocco. if we want to get real guarantees from the commission and the moroccan government that these activities will be beneficial for all the people concerned and that they will be of economic interest to the eu, then we must concentrate all our efforts on the future agreement, which will replace the previous one from february onwards. i hope the commission will be able to negotiate a new agreement that meets the expectations and involves parliament so that it does not find itself threatened with a new impasse.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft resolution requesting the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility with international law of the protocol of understanding between the european union and morocco on fisheries. this is not just a legal hassle designed to slow down the implementation of a trade agreement. it is an act of support for the sahrawi people's struggle and their right to freely determine their future. the problem with this agreement is that it concerns not only the territorial waters of morocco but also those of western sahara, which the un has considered since 1963 as a 'non-self-governing' territory, which means colonized. i therefore voted to put the right of individuals to live freely before any economic interest. i therefore regret the rejection of this draft by a large majority of members of parliament who were no doubt concerned that the opinion of the luxembourg court would be in accordance with international law. at a time when the european union and nicolas sarkozy are limiting their policy to signing contracts with mohammed vi, i prefer to commit myself to the rights of the sahrawis.
mr president, i have a point to make on today's agenda. the council is also proposing to extend the debate on the situation in yemen and bahrain to syria and egypt. these are very important questions, but they concern states which we have not dealt with directly. but, mr president, in our name, the armed forces of the european states, under the auspices of nato, are still killing the last supporters of the old regime in libya, far from the mandate given by the united nations. i do not know how many people are currently being killed by european bombs in sirte or the surrounding area, and i think we should look into this. we are not just the gun boys of nato or the united states of america.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, once again, our parliament is called upon to debate the decisions expected from a european council and once again the epp group calls for a european response, a community response to the crisis. once again, a resolution will be voted on tomorrow by an overwhelming majority of meps calling on the heads of state and government to show a spirit of responsibility when they meet on 23 october. i sometimes feel, as do most of my colleagues here, that i am repeating myself and that i am witnessing a deafening dialogue between the institutions and our member states. we certainly agree on the importance of the crisis, on the urgency of finding solutions, on the indispensable 'mix' of deficit reduction measures and measures to stimulate growth and employment. but we differ on what measures to take and whether these measures should be taken by dropper or with the efficiency of a surgical operation. ladies and gentlemen, europe must stop debating how it should make its decisions, whether or not to embark on yet another reform of the treaties. europe must stop analysing, weighing and, above all, hesitating. europe must act, europe must put an end to the debate on solidarity with greece. it must naturally be a matter of solidarity, and the decision taken by the troika yesterday is as responsible as the political game played in the slovak parliament. europe must stop asking itself whether or not we should reduce our public deficits. of course we must tackle the national and regional public deficits! the only question is how to do it and to ensure that it is done with the utmost fiscal and social justice. mr barroso, i will not read the text i prepared for the commission. i will simply congratulate you and say: i agree with what you have said today and i sign. the only thing i would add is that i wish you good luck in getting it through to the council with the support of our political group. come on, don't be afraid, we have to take action before christmas. so, thank you very much for this presentation that you gave us today. when i speak of europe, i am not talking only of brussels and strasbourg. i am also talking about bratislava, london and all the european capitals which must understand that true sovereignty is not just the gold of republican or royal palaces. real sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen, is the ability to give our fellow citizens the life they deserve, the standard of living they work for, freedom. and it is not by retreating within our own borders, by closing the schengen borders or by returning to protectionism that we will achieve this result. growth and jobs but i know that the anti-europeans do not agree and i love that they are grumbling; that means we're on the right track. mr farage, you set a good example at the last conference of presidents, and i hope that it will be the same today. mr president-in-office of the council, growth and jobs will only be back in europe if our member states play the european game, the game of solidarity, the game of 'one for all and all for one' fully, totally and rapidly, as from 23 october. for the third time in my speeches, i say that we must bring tax rates, retirement age, weekly working hours, to name just a few, together. my group has not given me enough time to list all the things which are impossible in europe. but you know impossible isn't french. so anything is possible, and that's also our slogan at the level of my party. europe must act, and i am convinced that it will succeed. mr barroso, we need an answer to give to our fellow citizens. what requests must we now respond to in our campaigns? when i hear people who have worked hard all their lives, who have a savings book, i see that the question they ask is: is what we have on our savings book, what we have worked hard to acquire in our lives, is it protected by europe and by the euro? yes, it is protected! and so this is the answer we must give them, this is the assurance we must give them. we have a duty, at the level of the heads of state and government and the european institutions, to give them that first response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we implement them, we will get out of the crisis. and i want to say this to you, my dear friends: those who come to our offices today are not only european countries. it is those who are already worried about whether we will succeed and whether the euro, perhaps at 1.10 euros, will boost europe's economy, compared to other continents, who are beginning to wonder. so, as you have said, let us act together, ladies and gentlemen, let us not play cat and mouse, let us be courageous, and i am convinced that we will now chart the way out of the crisis, to get europe out of this crisis, and to give it its place in the game of the world in which we want to exist. the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
ma'am, the answer is very simple. we have done this: four of my colleagues were in greece last weekend to discuss with our sister party, to get things moving, as you say in your question. so we work on it every day, and by the end of the week, three people had moved again. we are working closely with the party and the greek delegation, and we are also discussing this in our group.
mr president, what is extraordinary about our debates, and especially today, is that there is literally no analysis of the causes. how did we get here? if we ask ourselves the question of the causes, we might be able to think about the consequences and seriously consider the ways out. in reality, you have a profound contempt for the people of europe and their views. yesterday the portuguese were changing governments, knowing that the austerity policies that the newly elected ones were going to implement would be dictated elsewhere anyway. the greek government cannot even choose the price at which it will sell its public assets: the decision is taken in brussels, in strasbourg, at the imf, in washington. today the european leaders, the commission in the lead, are disregarding the slovak vote and are waiting for the slovak parliament to reconsider what they consider to be common sense, that is to say the sense of 'more and more europe'. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet ratified the convention. how far do you want to go, mr. verhofstadt? 900 billion, 1.2 billion, what? but where are you going to get the money? the forthcoming european summit will be a wake over the death of european democracy.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i thank you for coming here for the second time in a short time to explain to us that you are presenting us with a road map, that is to say, a complete plan. we have insisted on this. so we are rather happy that things are going in that direction. but i would like to make two comments. the first concerns the calendar. you have announced measures concerning banks which i think are in the right direction, since they would include elements of non-distribution of dividends in return for measures, etc. however, you should know that some of the major european banks have already started to take this path, such as erste bank the day before yesterday. so it would be better if we didn't arrive after the battle. and that the european banking authority which we have helped to create together can give indications which allow us to consider banks for what they are, that is to say european entities, and that we do not have in each country where they are active rules which are different. secondly, in substance, the fact that we are not acting at european level poses a problem of efficiency, but also a democratic problem: how can a handful of members - today it was in slovakia, tomorrow it could be elsewhere - representing a very small minority of the people to whom we are addressing, decide for themselves and, moreover, within the national framework, that is, without giving any chance to others to put pressure on those who have to decide? that is why we are in favour of european approaches, not because we need more europe on an ideological level. no, we want more europe in a very pragmatic way, because our countries, our governments have proved that this does not work. it is ineffective and dangerous for democracy. we therefore ask you to come to the european council to tell him that. one last thing, and quick. you have a knack for accommodating the leftovers, mr barroso. perhaps there is a need to whet the appetite of investors and citizens in a way other than by recycling ideas that have already been in the fridge for some time. the project bonds date back to the 2010 state of the union address. we haven't seen the color yet. as for the single market act, i remember that before us, in 2009, before you took office, we considered the measures and there is still nothing. all this is going in the right direction, but quite frankly, let's speed up, otherwise we lose all credibility.
mr president, commissioner, what is needed is to restore confidence: to restore confidence in the citizens, to restore confidence in the economic operators, to restore confidence in the markets. we will not win the markets by constantly proposing to increase the funds for relief. if we do, we will weaken our position. we will not convince the markets by announcing measures every day which are not put into effect. we will not convince the markets by demonstrating that banks need to be recapitalised without explaining how and why. we will not win over the markets by making rules which, once enacted, are not enforced. that is the case with the rating agencies, commissioner. the three main credit rating agencies are still not authorised, are still not supervised and continue to exert an undue influence on financial markets. it is therefore time to do something to convince the markets, commissioner. the european institutions must address the real crisis, that of political decision-making. it is up to the president of the commission and yourself to stick firmly to the line you have defined and for which you have the support of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, you are going to make new proposals on economic governance in competition, competition or emulation with the president of the european council. at least that contribution has added value. there will be no improvement in economic governance without democratic control, without democratic legitimacy. we must not forget that at european level, what happens in the council must be controlled by this house and that perhaps we should think about codecision in the context of the european semester. and then let me ask your president, the president of the commission, mr barroso, to speak. he came here to give us a state of the union address, which he hailed as perhaps one of his greatest speeches. and three days later, after denouncing the role of the g20, he accepted instructions from a capital to introduce macroeconomic conditionality on the structural funds. in short, to make the regions, the poor, the workers pay for what the capitals have failed to do. do you think this is good european management? on 21 july, when you adopted the second aid plan for greece, with the heads of state and government, you said that a pillar was needed to support the activity, and you used the structural funds for this purpose. so why is what was right on 21 july now wrong in your proposal on the structural funds? that is not good governance. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. like a large majority of my colleagues, i sincerely hope that the european council on 23 october will reach a comprehensive agreement. i hope he will give us some light on the way out of this storm. more than ambition, we have the means of our recovery. but we have to work together. i have faith in our institutions and our decision-making processes. i know that we can build on the historic role of the pillars of the european project which have always been able to pull europe upwards. today the debate is no longer about so-called sovereign or federalist. no, today it is about the survival of our model of peace and prosperity, the only example of its kind in the world. the solution is, of course, more europe. we need to get out of the media frenzy, the imposed short-termism, and stop acting on the spur of the moment. we need to put our solution in the long term, and put in place a stable process for strong economic governance. beyond the parties, beyond the national interests, our assembly has always set an example without losing sight of the interests of the peoples we represent.
author. - mr president, on 22 september the council rejected the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. what a hypocrite! it is true that the netherlands and finland vetoed this request. but the majority of member states, starting with france and germany, seem to share the doubts of these member states. however, romania and bulgaria now fulfil the conditions imposed on new entrants in 2008. and they seem even better prepared than some of the ones who were accepted without hesitation back then. the need for so-called certainty in the fight against corruption and organised crime is invoked. i dare say that's a load of crap. what is the sad reality? the only real reason for this refusal is political developments in a number of member states. xenophobia is increasingly undermining europe and fears are being played with. the reason for this refusal is always the fear of insufficient border controls and it reveals the reality of what the schengen area is. what about the so-called principle of free movement of persons if certain european citizens are denied the same rights as those of non-eu citizens? the reality of the schengen area is that it is increasingly a security area in the narrow sense of the term, a secure police area which allows europe to turn in on itself. this is fortress europe. the one that refuses to take in a few million tunisians and refuses to extend a hand to a few dozen libyan refugees. the electoral demagogy of the finnish and dutch governments is widely shared in many member states. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. can it explain to us what new criteria will be imposed on romania and bulgaria? when, as in economic matters, is the principle of qualified majority overturned in the field of human rights, justice and freedom? how long will we allow the union to drift and how long will the interests of a few continue to prevail over the general interest? yes, the european union has a governance problem. but this is not a problem of economic governance, it is a problem of political governance.
in writing. the events that took place in egypt this sunday are totally unacceptable, and i condemn them in the strongest terms. it is the duty of the egyptian authorities to protect citizens regardless of their religious affiliation. i am also concerned about the situation in yemen. president saleh's refusal to respect the agreement reached with the gulf cooperation council states is not likely to put an end to the daily violence affecting that country. the humanitarian situation is catastrophic, and has been for far too long. i am delighted, as you are, madam high representative, that the nobel peace prize has been awarded to the young yemeni activist tawakkol karman, who played a leading role in the peaceful student protests in sana'a earlier this year. it is a sign of support for the protesters who are seeking more freedom, justice and dignity. it will still take time for these countries in revolution or transition to invent a democratic future. it is our responsibility to help these peoples build the society they choose.
in writing. madam high representative, the arab spring is not over, the fight for freedom continues in the arabian peninsula. the treatment of the syrian, yemeni and bahraini populations has shocked and moved me. i therefore welcome the fact that the vice-president of the commission has formally denounced the attitude of the local authoritarian regimes, who are clearly in a state of confusion in the face of the popular uprising. the bloody repression of peaceful protests and the arbitrary imprisonment of opposition members are signs of the irresponsibility of these leaders. the union cannot tolerate such violations of its fundamental values with impunity. we must therefore ensure that all those suspected of human rights violations are held to account. i urge the union to support the democratic transition in the middle east in order to support the legitimate aspirations of the people. i therefore welcome the position of the european states, which are pressing the un to adopt a security council resolution on the matter. it is time to put into practice our commitment to supporting the peoples who want democracy instead of promoting the stability of regimes that deny it. this is the historic duty of europeans.
madam president, after the participation and electoral success of sortu, it has been proved that the political expression of the basque movement is the right way. today we are at a decisive turning point for the peace process in the basque country. just two weeks ago an international verification committee was set up to assess and monitor the ceasefire declared by eta, which itself decided to cooperate with the committee. this committee is composed of high-ranking experts in mediation and disarmament, internationally recognized for their neutrality. ladies and gentlemen, as europeans we have a responsibility to do everything we can to resolve the last conflict within the european union. i would therefore like to ask the european commission how it intends to recognise and support the international commission of inquiry as the key interlocutor for resolving the conflict.
madam president, in the context of the globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission and france had decided to provide eur 24.5 million for 3 580 workers affected by a redundancy plan at renault. the change in the retirement age in france, following the negotiation of the fund, leaves 72 workers in a situation of non-assistance. the minister for labour, xavier bertrand, is currently examining the problem. the socialist group, following a request made by the committee on employment, tabled two amendments in the committee on budgets to request an audit and the reservation of part of the 24.5 million. the permanent rapporteur, barbara matera, and the european commission confirmed that these amendments were inadmissible, that they were contrary to the regulation on the globalisation adjustment fund and that they were therefore rejected. despite this, the left voted against the allocation of the 24.5 million, joined in an unnatural alliance by ecr and the liberals, declared opponents of the globalisation adjustment fund, and the mandate was rejected in its entirety. in the end, as a result of a partisan manoeuvre to embarrass the french government, it was the company and its 3 500 workers who found themselves in an unprecedented and catastrophic situation. europe is once again stigmatized. i hope that it will be possible to reverse this very unfortunate measure.
in writing. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, national parliaments are supposed to have a say in the european commission's respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. that is to say, to verify the right of action of brussels. but if i understood the figures given by commissioner šefčovič correctly - in particular, in september, 61 opinions for 139 legislative proposals - the mechanism does not work well and the thresholds laid down in the treaties for opposing a text cannot be used. the commissioner seemed to say that all this was improving and that there was constant dialogue with the national parliaments to get their views. i wonder about the capacity of parliaments, which are totally committed to the idea of a european superstate, to oppose anything, whatever the will of the peoples they 'represent'! we have seen this in france, where parliament overwhelmingly approved the text of the lisbon treaty, which the french people rejected. we see this again with the stability funds and mechanisms, which give the european union exorbitant prerogatives to put people into debt in order to save the euro, when the only solution is to give greece back its monetary sovereignty.
in writing. the vat system needs to be reformed urgently. the economic crisis, demographic changes, the sustainability of our social system, the return to growth and the completion of the internal market - these are the challenges of changing the present system. vat revenue accounted for 21.4% of the tax revenues of the eu member states in 2008, or more than €860 billion. our welfare state model is based primarily on this lever. vat adjustments are also a powerful tool for stimulating growth in economic sectors. finally, some harmonization of vat rates in other sectors is essential to avoid distortions of competition and obstacles to the common market. i therefore welcome the proposals in this report which call on the commission to simplify, adapt and better harmonise vat systems in europe to enable growth to return. finally, i would like to recall that the adoption of a reduced vat rate for cultural goods and services broadcast on a physical medium or distributed online must become a reality in order to unlock their growth potential and ensure the dissemination of a diversified and high-quality cultural creation.
madam president, the main difference between mr obama's presidency and the european institutions is essentially his political will to stimulate consumption, to encourage investment in job-creating infrastructure, to use money creation and taxation. he's facing the conservatives, who are blocking all his plans. and your idea of a transatlantic pact is a market for fools, against our jobs, because it is inevitably free trade and competition that prevail. we must therefore change and invent a new system of cooperation, including with the united states, which leads to border protection, change the role of the european central bank and the european banking system, change the european financial stability fund to a social green development fund for investment, public services, education and employment, and to help small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this draft council decision, which is the result of bilateral negotiations conducted by the european commission to enable the union to develop a single agreement with its partners. this agreement, negotiated with the republic of cape verde, gives all european air carriers access to air links between that country and the union, without discrimination.
in writing. in life insurance as in non-life insurance, the interests of the insured must be paramount, not those of the markets. the commission's white paper and this report, which validates it with concern, are nothing but a clog in a bankrupt system.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which dares to launch a debate on the future of vat in the european union. the current administrative burdens on european enterprises are a handicap for them. with this report we are seeking to simplify this system and make it more transparent. the time has come to move towards convergence of vat rates on the european market, while allowing member states the necessary flexibility in setting the rate so that they can retain this instrument of budgetary control.
in writing. this europe has forbidden itself any harmonisation of its direct taxation. in line with the euro plus pact and the various austerity plans it imposes on the states under the pretext of the 'debt crisis', it is now trying to generalize the vat increase and the shift from direct taxation to indirect taxation. the eu's response to the crisis is to make the poor pay more and the rich pay less. the report calls on the member states to impose this system by regulation or even to give the commission the right to introduce it. this is unacceptable. i vote against it.
in writing. i abstained on this report on the future of vat. vat is by nature the most unfair tax, and i cannot therefore vote against a report which insists on the need to reform the system, which we cannot dispute. we can support the fight against tax fraud, the specific nature of social services, cultural services, smes and non-profit organisations. the report also stresses the need to develop a 'green vat' strategy, in particular by introducing reduced rates for energy-saving products and services. these are all interesting ideas, but i think they are not always put into practice, and they may well be little more than fine speeches if the report is to be seen as part of the overall strategy of consolidating the single market.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the future of vat. the vat system, which was introduced at european level in 1967, accounts for more than one fifth of the member states' tax revenue and its optimal functioning is therefore of paramount importance. the system in place today was designed to be only temporary, and my political family is now calling for a fundamental reform. the first measure to be taken is to reduce administrative burdens. the bureaucratic burden imposed on companies in this field is becoming unbearable. this project is a priority in order to make the site fully attractive to the european internal market. secondly, the process of integration of the union requires ever greater convergence, and vat must be the example of this. the reduction of the disparities which may exist today between the various member states is absolutely necessary if the unhealthy competition which tends to spread is to cease. the two pillars of this reform will strengthen the stability, growth and prosperity of the union's common market, ensuring its attractiveness and legal certainty. i would like to stress that the modernisation of our tax system puts the union's leadership in world trade at stake.
in writing. the eib could play an important role in helping member states that are condemned to crisis by eu policies on the pretext of their debt and debt ratings. instead, the eu prefers to continue to be financed by offshore subsidiaries of multinational companies and does not ask for any other environmental guarantees than those that the european commission is willing to offer. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which encourages the european union to support programmes to develop natural resources, combat global warming and combat poverty. the report supports eu guarantees to the european investment bank in the event of losses on projects in third countries. the eib is one of the eu's main sources of assistance to the countries of the south: €9 billion in loans, 12% of total loans in 2010. the proposed measures therefore reinforce the legitimacy of eu investment in development aid. this is not a luxury in this period of financial crisis, as investment in the countries of the south cannot be the victim of european governments' negligence in dealing with the crisis. so these policies seem to me to be moving in the right direction, even if they fall far short of what could be done in this area.
in writing. i vote against the increase in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development whose sole purpose is to convert all states to market economies. i am, however, pleased to note the amendments which seek to combat the use of tax havens and call for more control and transparency in general.
in writing. i supported the adoption of measures to implement article 10 of the un protocol, as this will help to combat the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms. the european union must now fulfil the commitments it has already made to the international community.
in writing. this new regulation ensures the safety of our citizens by improving the traceability of weapons, without penalising legal users such as hunters and sport shooters. as rapporteur for the opinion, i am pleased that we have been able to strike the right and appropriate balance in this respect. the procedures for hunters and sport shooters when they temporarily leave the territory of the european union have been simplified. similarly, administrative procedures for small arms and light weapons manufacturers are not burdensome. collectors of weapons will not be affected by this regulation. there are hundreds of smes in the european union which not only provide jobs but also high-quality know-how in the manufacture of our sporting weapons. we have taken care not to penalise them, especially in the face of foreign competition. we must be firm against terrorism and all forms of crime and prevent the illicit manufacture and trafficking of arms, but this must not be at the expense of the noble passion of millions of our fellow citizens.
in writing. the production and circulation of firearms and their essential components must be very strictly controlled. it's imperative for the safety of everyone. the transposition of the un rules on the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms and the efforts made to make this transposition as effective as possible are in the right direction.
in writing. the protocol, which entered into force in june 2005, is the first binding global instrument on individual weapons. it covers both the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. the harmonization and simplification of procedures it provides for will make it possible to control the global trade in firearms more effectively and, in fact, to limit their proliferation more effectively. we have worked hard in parliament, particularly in the committee on international trade, to make the text clearer and more precise, in order to optimise the control procedure. the european commission and the council have accepted the changes we have proposed, and we have been able to achieve a balanced text which takes account of the needs of legal traders or users, but at the same time allows for an effective crackdown on illicit movements. that is why i supported this report when it was voted in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which implements within the european union a un protocol to limit and better control the illicit manufacture, sale and use of firearms, however small. it is a small step forward in the fight against the proliferation of firearms. the european union must apply international texts which are in the direction of combating conflicts and which call into question the right to kill as a way of living human relations. how can we not remember today that weapons were sold (and are still being sold) by france, the united kingdom and others to regimes like gaddafi to repress their people? the aim must be to ban the export and even the mass production of arms. a regulation that tackles firearms still deserves support even if it is very limited. that is the meaning of my vote today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will help to revitalise the economy of the western balkans. it is essential to maintain trade preferences with these countries in transition in order to enable them to access the european market. this change in the regulations, which has been awaited for months, will be a factor of economic stability but also political stability for the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the measures it proposes are essentially aimed at revitalising the economies of the western balkans by giving them privileged access to the eu market. the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. moreover, the proposals in this report are in line with the recommendations we adopted in 2009 in a resolution on the '2009 enlargement strategy for the western balkans, iceland and turkey', in which the european parliament called on the commission to do everything possible to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis on the western balkans. the report also recommends extending the period of validity of the regulation implementing these measures, which will ensure legal stability for european economic operators in the balkan region.
in writing. on the eve of the european council, in the emergency situation in which europe finds itself today, i think we must be clear. we are at the bottom of the wall, we have been too slow to react, and when we have done so it has often been out of step with the scale of the crisis, because of our institutional slowness and the hesitations of some. in the resolution adopted today, we call for a comprehensive plan with a road map and a timetable. we believe that this plan should include several elements, one of which is, in my view, paramount, namely an ambitious european plan for growth, investment and employment, which would be implemented, in part, by the issuance of project bonds. this must be done quickly and in a determined manner by the eu. europe, in a crisis of legitimacy, must once again demonstrate its usefulness to the european citizens.
in writing. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the slovak republic. the crisis is now being used to force the creation of a european superstate, headed by commission officials, uniformising taxes, imposing strict application of its dictates, issuing bonds with the guarantee of the states, and looking only to the well-being of the markets and the banks. and this parliament should be the democratic legitimization of that! we reject the financial absurdity of creating the instruments of a colossal public debt shared at the level of the european union, when the public debt of the euro zone already exceeds eur 6 000 billion! a system that relies exclusively on the six countries that are rated aaa, including france, who will have to pay for the others if there is a problem! a system which can already force these six countries to take on a potential additional debt of 2000 billion! and yet yesterday the very liberal mr verhofstadt called for a tripling of the budget! the desire to take advantage of this crisis to dominate the nations is driving you mad!
in writing. the european peoples, whose interests this institution is supposed to protect, are suffering the full consequences of the crisis. deaf to the suffering and demands of the people, the majority of this assembly continues to advocate the authoritarian application of its liberal recipes. now it is asking the council to recapitalize the european banks and to give up their sovereign prerogatives to an economic government of the euro zone operating according to the community method. it is an authoritarian federalism in the service of markets that this text suggests. i vote against and denounce it.
in writing. this week we have had yet another surreal debate in the european parliament, in the context of the so-called preparations for the next european council. when the gue/ngl meps asked for solidarity with the european people, who are still the only ones paying for the crisis, the only response was solidarity between the member states and the banks. a new miracle cure has emerged: recapitalization. the only objective that is stated is to restart the mad machine that is driving us into the wall, to calm the markets and the rating agencies. member states will still inject billions of euros without any counterpart. once again, we're going to nationalize the losses and keep the profits private. the citizens are increasingly rejecting these austerity policies in all parts of europe and elsewhere, and yet, once again, the gue/ngl members of parliament felt very alone in this house.
in writing. we have just reiterated our support for romania and bulgaria's accession to schengen. reaffirming our position from before the summer, we adopted this resolution by a large majority, urging all member states to take the decision to extend the schengen area to these two countries. the european commission considers that romania and bulgaria have met the criteria and should not be prevented from joining. however, the matter was blocked in the council by several member states who considered it necessary to add certain criteria. i fully agree that more attention should be paid to such problematic issues as the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, these criteria should apply in the same way to all member states. in the meantime, a compromise must be found in the council for those countries which currently meet the schengen criteria.
in writing. the problem is not what criteria must be met to be able to be part of the schengen area, if others must be added on a case-by-case basis, the problem is schengen itself. this agreement has considerably weakened the external borders of the european union, creating a breath of fresh air for illegal immigration applicants at their most vulnerable points. one of the countries concerned today shares a border with turkey, which is both a source and transit country for this illegal immigration. greece, although "assisted" by frontex, has enormous difficulties in controlling its own borders with this neighbor, to the point that it is considering building a wall! the control of frontiers, including internal frontiers, and the flow of goods, capital and people across them is becoming more and more vital for our countries. control is not about closing the door. everyone should understand that. i am aware of the harmful effects of schengen on my country and wish it to get out of it, so i refuse to let others suffer the same fate!
in writing. the free movement of persons must be organised with safeguards. we must develop a permanent monitoring of the application of the schengen agreements, in order to see whether each state is playing by the rules. bulgaria and romania have undertaken major reforms to reorganise their border management, investing heavily in their law enforcement services. their institutional and legal framework has clearly been strengthened, as evidenced by the latest schengen evaluation reports. i regret, however, that the proposal to consolidate the schengen acquis by incorporating additional criteria on organised crime and corruption has been rejected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to reiterate my support for romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. this, which can only be done by the unanimous vote of the members of the council, was blocked on 22 september. i think it is indecent to continue to block these memberships. this leads to a situation of double standards, which is contrary to reality. romania and bulgaria fulfil the criteria for accession to schengen as laid down in the texts, which finland and the netherlands cannot ignore. corruption, which is highlighted in order to deny membership, although it must be combated vigorously, is not one of the technical criteria. changing the rules at the end of the process is not based on any legal justification, and the refusal of access to the free movement area to these countries is a political decision. these countries, which already play a special role at the eu's external borders, cannot be treated as if they were secondary. the eu must continue its commitment to the fundamental acquis of the free movement of persons.
in writing. refusing romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area is a de facto admission that not all states are treated equally in the european union. but to accept their accession would be to undermine the freedom and sovereignty of the netherlands and finland, which are now openly opposed to it. if we recognize the rights of some, it will be at the expense of the rights of others. this dilemma clearly exposes the absurdity of the schengen treaty, which entrusts the responsibility for the surveillance and protection of the borders of the 25 member states of the area to the peripheral countries of europe. giving such responsibility can only be done in trust. the dutch and finns do not have confidence. without schengen, we would not be in this situation. each state would be free and responsible for its own borders without requiring a third party to assume responsibility that it no longer bears. the treaty must therefore be revised as a matter of urgency so that everyone can be in control of his own home. it's not a step back, it's just a step back into the good old days. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. bulgaria and romania have made all the efforts that fortress europe demanded of them. the wait was too long. the council must allow bulgarian and romanian citizens to move freely within the schengen area. i am voting for this text, which does not deserve to see the word populism confused with the xenophobia of the state into which some right-wing governments are sinking.
in writing. i abstained on this text because, beyond denouncing the refusal of the dutch and finnish governments to allow romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area, it de facto justifies the so-called acquis of the schengen area. what are we talking about? firstly, the refusal to allow all european citizens to move freely within the european union. it is a disgrace and we know which majority rules in the two northern european states which have vetoed it. romania and bulgaria fulfil all the conditions for countries already in the schengen area. the european parliament is therefore right to denounce this veto. but the european parliament's resolution cannot help but take advantage of this to give a satisfactory solution to the schengen area. but schengen is judicial and police cooperation developed in all directions to control the union's borders, it is the fortress europe against the pseudo-invasions that threaten european identity. we are fuelling fear of the other, and xenophobia is becoming a common phrase in the mouths of many governments who are actually trying to mask their inability to deal with the financial crisis.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the reform of public procurement is a fundamental one for europe, as has just been mentioned, and particularly in times of crisis. european rules generally focus on the price criterion, which means that our companies are left unarmed in the face of foreign operators who do not hesitate to practice social and economic dumping in order to take public contracts to europe. it is therefore essential to recognise complementary criteria, including in the wto agreement on public procurement. in the debate i led in the committee on international trade, i stressed the need for reform of this agreement and its extension to new countries, especially emerging countries. but there is also an urgent need to create new instruments, in particular an effective and binding tool to establish more reciprocity vis-à-vis states that do not grant equivalent access to european operators. i would also like to know more about the legislative proposal under preparation, since the commissioner has mentioned it. finally, it is necessary to create an instrument to monitor the acquisition of european companies by foreign capital, in particular by sovereign funds. this is a solution already implemented in the united states through an ad hoc committee, and it helps to protect this strategic sector. europe, which is sometimes naive or weak in the face of its foreign competitors, would be well advised to take inspiration from this.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, public procurement is a great lever to boost the european economy, create quality jobs and make the choice of more socially and environmentally sustainable offers. this requires a break with the logic of the sole criterion of the cheapest offer, which is allied with mediocrity by forcing public authorities to make complicated arrangements to choose quality. the report we are voting on tomorrow introduces the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender, which allows the authorities to require contractors to meet high standards. i thank mrs rühle for having defended this principle so well, which will bring more flexibility and legal certainty to operators. another essential point is that social operators and small businesses should have access to public contracts under good conditions. european rules are very restrictive for these structures. they should be improved to enable them to respond to large calls for tenders without having to act as subcontractors. in this respect, the very frequent use of this system poses real problems for smes which are victims of tariff dumping and for their employees, who do not enjoy the same wage and social conditions as their counterparts employed by large groups. a chain of responsibility must be considered. it is unacceptable that the main contractor can discharge his responsibilities to a small subcontractor. i therefore call on you to vote for the retention of paragraph 22 in order to ensure that the rights of employees are respected and to protect the small businesses that create jobs in all the territories. finally, i welcome the fact that member states are being asked to sign ilo convention no 94 on the working conditions (public contracts). the convention dates from 1949 and only 11 member states have signed it. i regret, however, that it has not been possible to go further with regard to reciprocity of access to public contracts in industrialized and emerging third countries. europe can no longer be the only one to play by the rules, and i therefore call on you to refuse to remove paragraph 29. this report is a balanced text and i ask you not to distort it tomorrow, which would be against the interests of our industry, our companies and our workers.
madam president, commissioner, i think that mrs rühle's report is a good report. many people have said it before me. the question of public procurement is a tool for the exemplary nature of public power. the idea that the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer replaces the lowest price is therefore something we are asking for at european level when we demand that the criterion of gnp is no longer the only indicator. we're on the right track. however, if you are looking for ways to go further, you could also take the initiative to offer bonuses and rewards to companies that do not meet the requirements for services and durable and quality goods in the implementation of these public contracts. in addition, as you have said, and as many have said, we want to make it easier for operators in the social economy to access the public market through this revision of the rules at european level. i would like to mention a third point, which i consider to be of the utmost importance, namely the question of subcontracting. the commissioner knows that, from the point of view of respect for social law, large-scale construction projects are a scandal all over the world. we cannot go along with the ostrich policy and use competition or the risk of the chinese winning the markets as an excuse. we must make these markets social excellence. that means you're going to have to rethink the whole chain of responsibility thing. whoever wins the public contract must take responsibility, including for monitoring the mailbox companies that promote modern slavery and which we cannot accept within the european union.
author. - madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, by raising this oral question, parliament has wanted to take part in a debate which we consider to be absolutely essential. when the commission took the initiative to launch this european semester proposal, the idea was that in economic governance, it takes time for european orientation. it is a bit like contributing to the establishment of this famous economic government. as a european parliament we are concerned that there can be an economic government without an 'economic parliament'. we ask you what your assessment is of the democratic legitimacy of this european semester. how can we involve the democratic debate on this european semester? the question of political debate on economic policy guidelines is the foundation of any democracy. if you raise the level of arbitration of economic policy guidelines, you cannot ignore the debate, the democratic deliberation around these guidelines. that is what this european parliament is trying to achieve and what we are asking you to do. i note that at the european council on sunday you mentioned the european semester and you managed to do so without ever referring to the european parliament, or even - i should say - to the national parliaments. do you think that's sustainable? the commission has also committed itself to putting forward its next annual growth review as from december. i'm all right. i guess so. but why didn't you discuss it with us? where is the democratic deliberation on this issue? when you put your new proposal on the table, what assessment of the cycle that has just been completed will you make of it? how do you integrate the implementation of the europe 2020 objectives into the analysis of this european semester? we also ask you - as mrs bowles has said and i fully support her on this point, and on many others in this dossier - for full transparency on the amendments you are making, after discussion with the member states, to the country-specific recommendations. otherwise, this exercise has no legitimacy and no meaning. when you adopt the annual growth review, how much importance do you attach to this document? is this merely a bureaucratic document to amuse the european parliament or is it a genuine policy document? or are we delusional and your real objective is the euro-plus pact? we want an explanation of this, commissioner.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, i note from the commissioner's remarks that the semester was a success. i can only be happy. at a time when europe is going through a dramatic crisis, it is important that this tool, as we say, should help to move the situation forward. i would like to speak specifically to the council representative. it took you 16 minutes to explain the mechanics, which we knew, and to tell us that it was all very technical, that we could not understand it and that if parliament wanted to be informed, it was very lucky, since it could look at the documents on the internet which are updated for the general public. you could also tell us to read the newspapers, which we usually do. i find it rather shocking that the only answer to the question about the role of parliament in the european semester is to say to us: 'read the press, look on the internet and you will find the same thing.' you know that when we meet our citizens - and i wonder if you happen to meet some of them - they ask us the question: 'what is europe doing in these matters?' until now we have said to them: 'ah, the european semester is here!' well, the european semester is shitting today. that is what i wanted to say to you, mr president. the method which has been applied excessively in recent months is certainly not a method which will allow europe to emerge from the crisis. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to join in the remarks made by mr gauzès. i would like to ask you, mr. council representative, what planet do you live on? as for you, commissioner, you have certainly made some more conscious statements about the need for democratic legitimacy of economic decisions, but are you talking to people who are in turmoil at the moment? do you look at the state of the eurozone and how we are perceived around the world? a little more self-criticism wouldn't hurt, in my opinion. the european semester is a useful initiative, which has started well, but is far from sufficient. i would like to emphasize one point: quite frankly, it is an insult to this parliament to tell us to look on a website to participate in decision-making. it's an insult to democracy. we're not asking for the charity of your information. we are asking to be associated with economic, social and fiscal choices which are going to be absolutely major if we want the euro area on the one hand and the union of 27 on the other to be able to function a little better, and i think that is a little bit better, than in previous years. we need debates across borders. we need the mobilization of national parliaments. we need a general mobilization and a little more than information and communication. we need a broad public debate in europe, and this parliament must be one of the venues for it.
i would like to return to the subject of the recognition of professional qualifications, which commissioner barnier has already had the opportunity to raise on several occasions. i wanted to ask the commission about the precise timetable by which it intends to propose its revised directive, its recommendations for the revision of the 2005 directive. i have heard commissioner barnier confirm that the commission will table the revised proposal for a directive by the end of this year. i'm glad to hear it. we have called for a series of amendments to the 2005 directive in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in the sense of greater mobility, because it is really a question of ensuring that the rights of european citizens to greater freedom of movement and greater mobility are guaranteed. we have also called in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for greater simplification and efficiency in the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, and i note that these recommendations will also be taken up by the european commission. i would therefore simply like to mention the european professional card, which we are very keen on, as we said in the report recently voted on in our committee. we wanted this european professional card to be supported by the internal market information system (imi). what plans does the european commission have for extending and strengthening this information system for the internal market, if it is to be able to receive more data and more information for the implementation of a european professional card?
in writing. the report already announces that it agrees to allocate €1.4 million in 2012 to mrs ashton's imperialist service, but refuses to appoint an official to a higher post later in the year in the service responsible for protecting personal data within the union. i don't share that sense of priorities. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report giving discharge to the european police college. the appointment of the new director and the recent measures taken at the request of the european parliament have underlined the efforts made by the new cepol administration to regularise its situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to grant discharge to the european police college (cepol) as i consider that the information received and the actions taken are sufficient to give discharge to its executive director and to approve the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2009. in october 2010, i proposed to parliament to refuse discharge to cepol for the financial year 2008 due to serious and recurrent shortcomings by the college. in parallel to parliament's work on the 2008 and 2009 discharges, a new director, mr banfi, was appointed to head the college in february 2010. it has been actively working to correct financial and budgetary shortcomings and irregularities and to re-frame the college's management in order to make it more efficient. his work seems to be bearing fruit and i particularly welcome the structural efforts made by the college, such as the decision to abolish all committees of the board of directors by 2012 and to critically analyse all working groups of the board.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report recommending the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. i support the rapporteur's approach of introducing the need to inform the discharge authority every three months of the measures taken to correct previously identified shortcomings.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european medicines agency (emea), although i regret that some of the information requested was not provided. we therefore expect the agency to inform the discharge authority of the actions implemented and their results, in particular with a view to filling the gaps related to procurement and the management of conflicts of interest to which its staff and experts are exposed. on the latter, the agency committed to a risk-based approach and to focusing checks on staff who declare interests. we also ask the agency to act on the deferral of appropriations and await confirmation from the court of auditors. as regards the revenue from fees, the report notes that the agency has acquired software to make up for the backlog in recovery orders. finally, we note that the agency has revised its cash policy to limit the risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations.
in writing. the european medicines agency bears a heavy responsibility in the mediator drama. it's not just a few electronic forms that will ensure that this agency no longer endangers the health of our fellow citizens through negligence or conflict of interest. its reform must be comprehensive and subject to public debate. i refuse to vote for a report which gives a pass to the vague and dangerous management of an agency which still allows itself to fail to respond to all the demands of this parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lopez-isturiz white report on the proposal for a directive on tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and on their assembly. tyres are subject to european rules which are part of a logic of harmonisation of national approval procedures.
in writing. sensitive to the issue of consumer protection and consumer rights, i voted in favour of the wallis report. the report calls for the establishment of alternative dispute resolution methods alongside the traditional judicial system. for the consumer, these alternative modes have the advantage of being cheaper and faster, while respecting the principles of impartiality, transparency and efficiency.
in writing. the european parliament has supported the european commission in its commitment to guaranteeing european consumers access to justice by developing and promoting alternative dispute resolution methods for domestic and crossborder disputes. with these new alternative methods of conflict resolution, the application of rights in civil, commercial and family matters will be faster, cheaper and more conciliatory, the independence and impartiality of mediators being of course guaranteed. for this new right to mediation to be effective, all consumers will need to know in practice whom to turn to. it will therefore be the responsibility of the member states to organise information campaigns.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this own-initiative report because, as we increasingly use different purchasing methods within the single market, it is becoming essential to strengthen consumer protection in the event of disputes. the use of new dispute resolution methods should not increase the pressure on the judicial authorities by the multiplication of disputes, and should prove simpler, faster and less costly for consumers.
in writing. by adopting this report, the european parliament sends a strong message to the european commission to support the improvement of cross-border access to justice for european citizens and businesses, through the development and promotion of alternative dispute resolution (adr) in the eu. two elements of this report seem to me to be essential. first, the text sets out the guiding principles to be respected in the area of adr systems in place in europe. among them, the independence and impartiality of the ombudsmen, their competence, and the guarantee of a very moderate cost - or even free - of use of this system for the consumer, are for me fundamental points. on the other hand, the development of these systems makes sense only if, at the same time, citizens are more aware of their existence. the report also emphasises the need to develop communication campaigns around adrs. it's a necessity for me. finally, the text recalls that adrs and collective actions are not mutually exclusive but complementary. given my commitment to the implementation of collective redress at european level, i am pleased that this idea is included in the report.
in writing. the eu is an institutional triangle. each of the institutions embodies an interest. the council must learn to respect the parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage and responsible for representing the peoples of europe. it is therefore for parliament to give discharge to the council. the latter must therefore play its part and provide the information necessary for the smooth running of this procedure. we reject the council's discharge today because we consider that the rules of the game have not been respected, since the council refuses to answer the questions and therefore to provide the information requested by the budgetary authority.
in writing. the council was refused a vote on its discharge for the implementation of its budget in 2009. the treaty provides that the european parliament is the budgetary control authority and the only one entitled to give discharge. the council must therefore provide parliament with any information it deems useful. by refusing to answer our questions, the council is in effect refusing to inform european citizens about how it manages the money entrusted to it by european taxpayers. to grant discharge, we need access to the accounts. as long as the council refuses to comply with it, the european parliament cannot give discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control which our parliament must exercise.
in writing. i supported the position of our colleague rivellini to refuse the 2009 discharge, because it is the responsibility of the european parliament to control the european budget in a transparent manner. as the rapporteur points out, a discharge to the council cannot be given without ensuring transparency on the use of the budget allocated. it is a question of the confidence of our citizens in the european institutions and of the control of the proper use of public money.
in writing. i voted in favour of the second report of the european parliament, which refuses the budgetary discharge to the council for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. parliament, the only institution empowered to grant discharge, did not receive all the documents and information requested from the council. the council representatives also did not respond to the invitation of the members of the committee on budgetary control to the committee meeting of 22 september 2011. with the responsibility of discharge authority, it is the responsibility of members of parliament to report to the citizens on how the taxpayer's taxes are spent. if we do not have sufficient information from the council to ensure that its budget is being managed properly, then we should not give discharge to this institution.
in writing. my colleague mr tatarella's report deals with the reduction of emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter from small tractors. these reductions are governed by a system of phases. each phase corresponds to a limit of emissions not to be exceeded and the installation of more efficient technological systems. while reducing emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter is essential, i agree with mr tatarella, who stresses the difficulties faced by producers in meeting the technological requirements, despite the postponement of the date of introduction of the different phases. sometimes the best is the enemy of the good!
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft directive, which was agreed at first reading. the measures taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from engines for agricultural or forestry tractors are very satisfactory.
in writing. in the context of the european policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the union considered it appropriate to set emission limits for engines for non-road vehicles (locomotives, boats, construction machinery, etc.), with implementation phases, and by establishing flexibility mechanisms. these mechanisms provisionally allow the marketing of non-road vehicles that do not comply with these limits in order to ensure greater flexibility in implementation, especially in the current crisis context. i voted in favour of the report by sirpa pietikäinen, who recommends that the flexibility mechanism should be increased from 20% to almost 40% of annual sales in order to reduce the burden on our companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft directive, which was agreed at first reading. it sets maximum levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) emissions from diesel engine exhaust gases in construction, agricultural and forestry machinery, motor rails and locomotives, inland waterway vessels, constant speed engines and small gasoline engines used in various types of machinery. the agreement reached is balanced.
in writing. the european parliament this week called for better integration of disabled people into the labour market and for a strengthening of anti-discrimination provisions. often victims of social exclusion, people with disabilities need our support and action. it should be recalled that 16% of the total eu population lives with a disability. more than 60% of disabled people are unemployed and a quarter of them live in poverty. progress is being made, thankfully. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague adam kosa, the first and only hearing-impaired member of the european parliament.
in writing. more exposed to social exclusion and discrimination, people with disabilities are a vulnerable group in our societies. the differences in employment and poverty between people with and without disabilities are very marked and remain intolerable: only 30 to 40% of them are in employment, and 70% have a higher poverty rate. the initiative report by adam kosa has the merit of highlighting the situation of these people in the eu. there's still a lot of work to be done. while 2010 was the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, poverty has clearly increased, and social exclusion potentially affects a wider range of the population than before in the eu. we must therefore remain vigilant: progress in the social inclusion of disabled people will first be achieved through the adoption of the so-called horizontal directive on combating discrimination. this is what we are asking in this report: the commission must continue to work for the rapid adoption of this directive, which is currently blocked in the council.
in writing. more than 80 million people, or about 16% of the total population of the european union, live with a disability. the employment rate of disabled people in the eu is only 45%, and disabled people are one of the groups most affected by the financial crisis. austerity measures cannot be used as a pretext for unjustified reductions in services for disabled people or in projects to enable them to better integrate into society. it is therefore necessary to reach agreement quickly on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the commission should strengthen the anti-discrimination and accessibility provisions in the framework of the future cohesion policy 2014-2020. it must also put forward a proposal for a european legislative act on accessibility, with strong and binding measures at eu level to improve the accessibility of goods and services for disabled people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes concrete measures to combat the exclusion of disabled people in our societies. with this report, we should remove all barriers that contribute to discrimination in employment by facilitating access to education, training and employer awareness of these populations.
in writing. today, 80 million people in europe are living with a disability. of these, nearly 70% are unemployed and 25% are in poverty. the european union has a few assets in its sleeve to help these people and ensure greater equality of rights: mobilizing more european funding, conducting wide awareness campaigns, collecting pan-european statistics to improve the effectiveness of public policies. but above all, it is time to unleash the draft of a major anti-discrimination directive, blocked for more than 10 years by european heads of government. i am glad that my colleagues in the european parliament have joined us in making this clear message: the next step in the fight for equal rights is to have the eu states agree on this directive! governments are at a loss to escape their responsibilities. we also ask the commission to propose a major european directive on accessibility for disabled people.
in writing. in the european union, the population with a disability represents 80 million people, or 16% of the total population. unfortunately, their employment rate is currently only 45%. in addition, their poverty rate is 70% higher than the average. i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which is part of the european strategy 2010-2020, one of whose objectives is to achieve an employment rate of 75% of the working population, because it calls on the member states and the commission to promote the integration of disabled people, in particular by facilitating access to the labour market. the report also stresses the need to ensure universal, effective and non-discriminatory access for people with disabilities to social protection, social benefits, health care and education, as integration into working life and financial independence are important factors for social integration. finally, other measures are also proposed: the creation of a 'european committee on disability' to assess progress in the european strategy, the adoption by the member states of sign language as an official language, the adoption of a european mobility card to reduce obstacles to freedom of movement (to study, work, travel).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobility and integration of disabled people, which takes account of a problem that is often overlooked. while 80 million europeans suffer from disabilities, few measures are being taken to fully integrate them into our societies. the aim is to improve the accessibility of goods and services to disabled people so as not to add additional barriers to disability. access to new technologies, for example, could be developed to facilitate their use by people with disabilities. the report calls on the member states to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission is proposing to set up a european disability committee. it calls for improvements in the design of urban spaces and transport, for better consideration in education and in general in policies of the specific needs of disabled people. it stresses the importance of access to employment for disabled people and of combating poverty, which particularly affects this part of the population. it is a necessary text which recalls that equal treatment must apply to all, and not leave disabled people behind.
in writing. we all have a disability at some point in our lives. infrastructure, whatever it may be, transport, community care services, education, media, culture, everything must be designed to be accessible to all citizens. the 'universal design' must prevail in all areas. the austerity policies which the european union is currently imposing on the peoples of europe do not allow the implementation of the ambitious policies which the general interest, and therefore the interests of disabled people, requires. worse still, the precarious situation of all and everyone which austerity leads to aggravates the situation of the disabled. the text sets ambitious goals, but does not give the means to achieve them. i shall abstain from voting in order not to give credence to this hypocritical text.
in writing. 80 million european citizens are living with a disability today - that's more than one in six europeans. these people, who are often the victims of discrimination, are hard hit by exclusion, unemployment and precariousness - only 30 to 40% of them are employed, 70% have a poverty rate above the average. this report deals with the two major challenges faced by disabled people: mobility on the one hand and social inclusion on the other. ambitious policies must be undertaken at european level as soon as possible to ensure their access to the labour market and genuine freedom of movement. the proposals of mr kósa, concerning the improvement of physical access to public places and the creation of a european mobility card, the introduction of disability allowances and specific support for parents of disabled children, go in this direction, and i welcome them. i also welcome the inclusion in the report of the challenge of an ageing population - the rate of disability for people over 65 will increase by 77% in the next few years. this increase in the number of vulnerable people requires us to make a choice now for a more inclusive model of society.
in writing. as highlighted in the europe 2020 strategy, eu public procurement policy is central to achieving the objectives of innovation, competitiveness and the environment. this policy needs to be modernised. the rühle report, which i supported, makes several recommendations: a clearer legal framework; better exploitation of the potential of public procurement, for example by focusing on the most advantageous offer in the long term (economic, social and environmental benefits) rather than on the lowest price criterion; the commission will also be proposing a simplification of procedures to improve access to public procurement, particularly for smes.
in writing. public procurement accounts for about 17% of the eu's gdp. this is the importance of good policy in this area in times of crisis. the current rules on public procurement should be amended to better support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. contracts should be awarded not only to the lowest bidder but also to the most innovative or to the one offering the most attractive environmental or social benefits. it would also be useful to have a clause in the public procurement agreement allowing the eu to give preference to european producers, especially smes.
in writing. in the resolution on public procurement, the european parliament reinforced the commission's proposal for a social europe: the most significant advance is that local authorities should no longer opt for the economically lowest bid, but for the most advantageous one, for example, one that integrates environmental aspects. the question of subcontractors is also taken into account in order to avoid abuses in terms of working conditions and worker safety. however, there is still progress to be made in european public procurement policy. the commission must in particular impose the principle of reciprocity on its trading partners: if the union agrees to open its public procurement to operators from third countries, then european companies must also have access to public contracts and works in these non-eu countries. european enterprises and jobs in europe must be a priority of trade openness. the commission must ensure that its next directive on public procurement serves the dual purpose of more quality jobs and quality services for users.
in writing. this text contains several ecological considerations and a concern for the respect of collective agreements which i approve. but he focuses his remarks on respect for the sacred principle of free competition. it also welcomed the green paper produced by the commission last january, which advocated, among other things, a downward revision of the requirements of public authorities to promote competition. the public interest is once again sacrificed to liberalism. i vote against it.
in writing. public procurement - which represents 17% of the eu's gdp - is a major instrument in supporting economic growth, innovation, employment, environmental protection and the efficiency of public spending in europe. ensuring that they function optimally is therefore a crucial challenge for the european economy. this report, which i support, sets out six priority objectives for the reform of the current legislation which the commission should propose in the coming months. among these is the improvement of access for smes to public procurement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. i'm all for it. other objectives include the achievement of better value for money, in particular by replacing the lowest price criterion with the most economically advantageous offer, taking into account the life cycle of the relevant goods as a whole.
in writing. this report is an important step ahead of the european commission's formal proposal, which is due to be published at the end of the year, and i therefore voted in favour of it. the rapporteur has in particular argued that the criterion of the lowest price is no longer appropriate in the present context, and i support that. indeed, there is a cost to lowering the price of a bid by flouting basic social or environmental standards. and that cost is borne by the citizens, not by the company that wins the market. this is no longer acceptable, and we must change this rule. the same applies to commercial naivety: when our companies apply for non-european markets, they are almost always excluded. on the other hand, foreign firms can easily bid for, and even win, european public contracts. the union must use all the instruments at its disposal to open up the public procurement markets of our partners in a reciprocal manner. this will ensure that european companies benefit from fair and equal conditions of competition when they try their luck abroad.
in writing. concerned about the respect of the fundamental right of every european worker to move freely within the eu, i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague, traian ungureanu. the resolution encourages the integration of workers from the new eu members, in particular bulgaria and romania, into the european market and denounces prejudice. we must fight discrimination against workers on the basis of their nationality: this is one of the major foundations of the european project!
in writing. the figures are known. the mobility of europeans remains extremely low: only 2.3% of eu residents reside in a member state other than their own. yet 17% would intend to work in another member state, and almost half would consider looking for a job in another member state if they were made redundant. these figures reveal the gap between a so-called integrated single market and a european area of free movement of people and workers which remains rather compartmentalized. the reasons for this are many: social, linguistic, cultural, legal and administrative obstacles. enabling eu citizens to enjoy the full benefits of the free movement they enjoy under the treaties remains an objective to be achieved. this requires improved coordination of national systems, whether in terms of social security, pensions or the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications. too many people in europe are still hampered in their life plans by the lack of coordination and recognition of national rules.
in writing. i supported the adoption of these measures, which should thus allow for better implementation of eu legislation in this area. these measures to harmonize and combat discrimination within the union are a real opportunity for our peoples and allow the maintenance of temporary barriers to the opening of our markets to the citizens of the new member states. with these measures we should regularize the current status of european workers.
in writing. i supported this report which calls on the european commission to give itself the means to make worker mobility and equal rights a reality throughout the union. the main point to be taken from this text is our unconditional demand that the transitional provisions introduced by certain member states restricting access to the labour market for certain european nationals be brought to an end. so france, along with others, must lift these restrictions on bulgarian and romanian nationals as soon as possible. this would be a great step forward, among other things, for the social inclusion of the roma. the principle of equal work, equal pay, which makes it possible to combat social dumping, and the fight against direct or indirect discrimination against migrant workers, should also be taken into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on measures to encourage the mobility of workers within the european union. the mobility of our citizens enables exchange and builds europe on a daily basis. the mobility of workers is all the more essential as it balances supply and demand in labour markets by meeting any labour needs that may arise. it thus contributes to making markets more efficient. many barriers still stand in the way of mobility. it's about taking them out. the report calls for the restrictions which still prevent some european citizens from working in another member state to be lifted. another pillar of the report is the call for greater recognition of diplomas to enable everyone to promote their training throughout europe. to facilitate mobility, social security and pension systems need to be coordinated so that workers' rights can be easily transferred. the principle of non-discrimination is also clearly reaffirmed. finally, information on the different mobility opportunities and related rights should be made more accessible.
in writing. this report reduces european workers to the condition of the internal market adjustment variable. it simply concedes that mobility must remain voluntary. it also advocates the liberalisation of regulated professions. i abstain because it enshrines the right of all european citizens and their family members to work in another member state. citizens are not commodities. the right to free movement cannot become a nomadic obligation for one's work.
in writing. living and working in any member state of the european union is one of the fundamental freedoms of european citizens. however, only 2.3% of them reside in a member state other than their country of origin. on the other hand, when asked about their intention to use this freedom in the future, 17% of europeans said yes. the difficulties faced by european citizens in this area need to be addressed, particularly in the current economic context. that is the spirit of my colleague traian ungureanu's report, which i support. in order to determine the nature and extent of these difficulties, the text calls on the commission to draw up a scoreboard of the obstacles faced by workers wishing to move to another member state. i think that's a great idea. as far as the solutions are concerned, ensuring better recognition of vocational qualifications in the eu is absolutely essential. i look forward to the commission's legislative proposal in this area. similarly, the possibility for migrant workers to benefit from the portability of their pension rights is a fundamental element in ensuring the effective exercise of acquired rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the proposals it contains will make real progress for all european citizens. 48% of citizens plan to look for work in another eu country, but only 2% actually do so. this lag shows that there are still too many obstacles of all kinds (administrative burdens, problems with the recognition of diplomas, discrimination, lack of information, etc.) which discourage potential candidates. in the present economic context, however, the occupational and geographical mobility of workers makes it possible to match the supply of and demand for employment, and thus to reduce unemployment. it also helps to limit social and wage dumping. a long-term and comprehensive work programme, including european education systems (language teaching, harmonization of diplomas, exchanges), national employment agencies and enterprises, is a necessity. the union must play both a driving and coordinating role in policies so that citizens can fully benefit from the opportunities offered by free movement.
in writing. the eu's single market for services is a process under construction. i am convinced that its proper functioning is essential to generate growth and enhance competitiveness in europe, and i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs malgorzata handzlik. a review of the situation has made it possible to identify the remaining problems in consolidating the european internal market. the report calls in particular for the full operation of the single points of contact set up under the services directive. these offices enable european service providers to carry out their administrative procedures electronically. the report also denounces the delays in the implementation of the directive in some member states. however, it welcomed the european commission's initiative to carry out a mutual evaluation of the single market for services and called for such an evaluation to be further developed for crossborder services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by mr handzlik, which describes the process of mutual evaluation of the services directive and calls for better application of the european rules adopted in recent years in this field. better transposition of these rules should enable the european economy and the economies of our territories to benefit more from the positive effects of the single market for services.
in writing. the report regrets the delays in transposing the services directive and calls on the commission and the member states to go further in its application. i'm glad these failures happened. if the left front comes to power in france, it will repeal all the provisions transposing this harmful directive.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, global economic governance needs to be reformed. therefore, my colleagues and i voted in favour of a responsible monetary policy and stronger financial regulation. we also call for the democratization of the international monetary fund (imf), the end of banking secrecy and a clear separation between deposit and speculative banking. finally, the role of the european union at the global level must be strengthened. it needs to speak with one voice, for example by having a single seat at the imf and the world bank.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because of the interesting proposals it contains to address the current global macroeconomic, monetary and financial imbalances. to achieve this, it stresses the need for and offers ways of strengthening the international organisations responsible for correcting these imbalances, based on the principles of legitimacy, transparency and accountability. in particular, it stressed the urgency of better governance of the global financial sector, including better cooperation between financial supervisors worldwide.
in writing. the next summit of the group of 20 industrialised and emerging countries (g20) will be held in cannes on 3 and 4 november. these 20 countries account for 85 percent of the world's economy and two-thirds of the world's population. the stated objective is to try to find concerted responses, in particular to finally strengthen international financial regulation and supervision to remedy the current imbalances. the g20 leaders are also invited to agree on the minimum common elements of a global financial transaction tax. in the context of a new global regulation, the imf should play a more important role. it will therefore have to operate more transparently, with a more equitable distribution of voting rights, and the election of its director-general will have to be carried out by a more open procedure. its mandate could be extended, not only to enhance international surveillance, but also to ensure better monitoring of systemically important economies. this new democratic accountability should become a requirement, not only for the imf, but also for the world bank and the g20.
in writing. as soon as the ink has dried on new european texts strengthening the foundations of the european superstate, we are in the process of creating a world financial government under the auspices of the imf! the art of using crises to pursue less-than-admitted ideological goals. without ever questioning the underlying reason that has brought us to the dramatic situation we are in: the financial globalisation of the economy. but this is not a scientific phenomenon, nor a historical fatality: it is simply the work of politicians who have made certain decisions at certain points in history, as the first of them, the choice of gatt instead of the havana agreements in the post-war years. a very clear choice in favour of ultraliberalism against regulated trade and the primacy of the political will of the states over the commercial interests of private actors. this choice was further aggravated by the marrakesh agreements and the creation of the wto, now headed by the socialist pascal lamy. that is to say, the collusion of the pseudo-elites ruling our states! globalization is also a matter of choice. it requires will and courage against all the lobbies of the profiteers of the system. we in the national front have that political will and that courage.
in writing. one thing to remember: making sdrs the new world currency of reference means that the dollar can no longer be. the rest of this text is a collection of liberal nonsense and inept projects. giving power to the imf, ignoring the un and its legislative committees - all this is appalling. i vote against it.
in writing. the subprime crisis, the trivialization of automated trading, or the downward spiral of speculation on the debt of certain states, show us that the current rules are inadequate and make us considerably vulnerable. it is high time we took back control of the financial economy, so that it serves the real economy! this must be achieved through courageous decisions by the international institutions dealing with the world economy (imf, world bank) and informal forums (g7, g20). i therefore welcome this report, which calls for the development of a financial transaction tax that can both limit high-frequency trading and create new revenue for states, regulate excessive speculation in the debt of states in difficulty, or even better control the rating agencies, which were partly responsible for the 2007 crisis. if the eu has decided to lead the way, by developing binding standards on all these points, it cannot be the only one to reform the system. emerging and developed countries must contribute to this global effort.
in writing. representing 5% of women in europe, single mothers face poverty and social exclusion. the european parliament's barbara matera has therefore proposed a series of measures to improve their situation and promote their integration into the workplace. as president of the association "women at the centre", i am deeply committed to solidarity and social inclusion actions for women. i therefore supported the proposal.
in writing. in recent decades, society has changed a lot. today, more and more single parents are raising their children. yet, 85 percent of single parents are women. hence the adoption of an own-initiative report on the situation of single mothers in europe. we are aware of the difficulties faced by these women and we ask that more attention be paid to them. one of the priorities today is to achieve a balance between work and private life: governments and companies must act in this direction in order to ensure working conditions that are more favourable to reconciling work and family life. among the proposals to be taken up in this report, i would like to highlight the major role that the esf can play in providing scholarships for single mothers or in supporting the resumption of education.
in writing. the european union must do more and better to help single mothers and their children. the economic crisis has further weakened these single-parent families, which are already highly exposed to poverty and social exclusion. 85% of these are women raising one or more children alone. given that european women earn on average 18% less than men, the picture of the fragility of single mothers is stark. to cope with the problems of these growing families, the resolution adopted in parliament proposes the setting up of 'home centres' capable of providing them with accommodation, advice and assistance in training and education. these measures to help single mothers should obviously be extended to men in the same situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides concrete measures to support these single mothers who are facing certain discrimination in our societies. the difficulties in finding employment and the associated risk of poverty are real and still too often lead to the social exclusion of these single-parent families. as this report by our colleague matera underlines, it is now necessary to support access to the labour market for these women by developing and strengthening appropriate employment policies.
in writing. this report is an opportunity for us to stress the urgency of action to address the particularly precarious situation in which more and more single mothers are now found in europe, and that is why i gave it my full support. women who decide to become single mothers are too often victims of social exclusion and even stigmatisation, especially in societies where conservatism is dominant. this is a new family model that we certainly cannot ignore. we must seek to meet the needs that arise. beyond this issue, it is also and above all the education and information of women about their sexual and reproductive rights, especially the youngest, that must be given priority.
in writing. as politicians, we must adapt to changing societies and take account of new needs and emerging problems. this is exactly what this owninitiative report does. more and more women are single with one or more dependent children, and find themselves in situations of vulnerability, poverty and social exclusion which also affect their children. this is the reality we must face. first of all, equal treatment must be guaranteed. having a child and having to raise it alone should not be an additional handicap for these women, who more often than not suffer rather than choose this situation. it is important that exchanges of good practice take place between member states. single mothers must be supported in their access to employment by training policies and by measures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and private life. it is about enabling them to be financially independent and to get out of poverty. since the beginning of my career, i have been campaigning for women's rights and equal treatment. this report is another step in that direction.
in writing. the report has the immense merit of focusing on those who are often the most in demand in society: single mothers. trapped in a precarious situation made worse by the economic crisis, they struggle more than others to find decent work, decent housing, and to provide for their families. this is unacceptable. the text calls for action to be taken against unjustified dismissals. he insists that they have access to accessible childcare and housing assistance. he wants single mothers to be given appropriate scholarships. it is a pity that the aim of the commission is to provide only 50% of care for children aged 0 to 3 and that it does not ask for worthy employment contracts for those it is advocating. i vote to approve the denunciation and the proposed advances.
in writing. europe is characterised by the development of single-parent families, mostly composed of single mothers: 85% of single parents are women. these families often find themselves in difficult situations: 32% of these single parents are at risk of poverty, compared with 12% of couples with children. the government must pay more attention to these fragile families. that is what barbara matera is asking for in her report, and i support it. the text encourages member states to adopt public policies, in particular in the fields of education, public health, employment, social security and housing, in order to respond to the needs and realities of single-parent families. as regards employment aid, the report stresses the major role that the european social fund can play in offering scholarships to single mothers and in supporting pregnant women in continuing their training. it also stresses that member states and companies should do more to support work-life balance by introducing more family-friendly working conditions (flexible working hours, teleworking, development of childcare facilities, etc.).
in writing. as a threat to the eu's internal security, organised crime must be combated in order to uphold the democratic values promoted by the union and to put an end to the distortions of the internal market which it exerts by putting pressure on the legal economy. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by mrs sonia alfano.
in writing. organized crime is a major challenge for the european union: in 2010, mafia-like criminal organisations operating in europe benefited from a turnover exceeding the total annual budget of the eu! the report by my colleague, mrs sonia alfano, which was adopted by a very large majority, proposes concrete initiatives to develop a european strategy to combat organised crime and the mafia. the union is still far from being an area of integrated justice and freedom. new instruments are undoubtedly needed, both in terms of judicial and police cooperation and in terms of the use of the european authorities already responsible for combating transnational organised crime. in this report we call on the european commission to propose a directive to criminalise the mafia association or any other criminal network in all member states and to mobilise appropriate resources, including financial resources, to support them in this fight.
in writing. contrary to the rapporteur's claim, the explosion of organised and transnational crime in the european union is one of the consequences of the disappearance of internal border controls without a serious reinforcement of external border controls. it is true, as we have said at all the meetings, that the trafficking in drugs, in human beings, in arms is a scourge and that the imagination of traffickers is boundless. but once again we find ourselves trying to manage at european level problems that we would not have had, or to a much lesser extent, without the european union. and when it comes to crime, the states have not waited for the union to react. the prüm treaty is an example of this, even though its content has been partially taken up at community level, which is also detrimental to its effectiveness. but what motivated our vote against was above all the intention to give the future european public prosecutor's office powers in these areas. we are opposed to the very principle of this office, and therefore to the possibility for this supranational body to conduct judicial investigations or to give orders to our police services.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of my colleague's report on the fight against organised crime in the european union. organised crime is unfortunately one of the main threats to the internal security of the eu and, given the scale of this global phenomenon, it is essential that europe has a european strategy, legislative and operational instruments and financial means to combat this threat. moreover, we must work towards a common and comprehensive european approach to how to respond to emerging security threats and challenges, in building a secure europe in which we tackle together threats beyond our borders. in particular, i welcome the provisions in this report on the importance of protecting victims of organised crime and on the importance of ensuring that they have an adequate defence. i hope that the texts we are currently working on on crossborder crime, internal security, terrorism and so on will make it possible to move towards the creation of a genuine european prosecutor's office whose competence will have to go far beyond the mere protection of the financial interests of the european union and cover all these areas.
in writing. i gave my full support to this report in order to send a clear message of the european will, shared by a large majority, to fight against the impunity from which the mafias benefit so widely. for this purpose, we must have stricter rules to prevent mafia organizations from having access to public funds in any way or from participating in tenders. our efforts to suppress the 'octopus' also include the setting up of a special committee of the european parliament which will have to propose measures to combat more effectively the transfrontier criminal activities of the mafias. finally, i have particularly supported the introduction of measures to protect victims and their families and support measures to help them recover from the terrible experiences they have suffered.
in writing. organized crime is an alarming phenomenon that extends far beyond national borders. it therefore requires a european response. the social and economic consequences are major, and the threats to internal security and human rights are of growing concern. the adoption of mrs alfano's report by a large majority is a sign of the european parliament's willingness to tackle a priority issue in the field of justice and internal security. i therefore welcome the recommendations in this report, which proposes a series of concrete measures, such as improving the efficiency of european structures such as eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office, enhanced judicial and police cooperation and specific actions to combat corruption in public procurement. the fight against organised crime and the eradication of the mafias is a matter for everyone. member states are determined to put an end to this threat. the european parliament, by adopting this report, is showing its commitment to supporting any proportionate measure that will help to curb this widespread phenomenon.
in writing. established in 2002, the high-level forum on aid effectiveness provides a forum for debate between government and non-government representatives with the aim of improving the use of development aid. in the run-up to the 4th forum, to be held in busan, south korea, in november, it is essential that the eu takes a clear and ambitious position. concerned about the respect of the commitments made by the union in the field of consolidating the coherence of development policies, allocating 0.7% of gni to official development assistance by 2015 and enhancing the effectiveness of aid accountability, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague christian dan preda, which emphasises the participation of parliaments, local authorities and civil society in development policies, democratic ownership as a condition for aid allocation and finally transparency.
in writing. the fourth high level forum (hlf-4) on aid effectiveness is to define the eu's future commitments for more effective development aid. the eu contributes more than half of the world's official development assistance (oda), but much remains to be done to address the causes, not the symptoms, of global poverty. it is an extremely difficult subject: how can we create a development policy, and above all a policy of co-development, which is relevant and allows the least developed countries to escape poverty? high-level conferences and statements remain focused on aid delivery mechanisms when thinking about the development of effective development policies is needed. aid has decreased due to the financial crisis but also to the significant reduction in the level of oda, which for some donors lacks short-term results. we cannot accept this short-term view which does not correspond to the deep and long-term action inherent in development aid. the fhn-4 will only be successful if it leads to a strong eu commitment to aid effectiveness, through clear and measurable objectives.
in writing. this future meeting is much more than a forum on aid. the major challenge will be to reverse the logic of development policy: democratic ownership is a key element to be defended in order to encourage the endogenous development of poor countries. this resolution emphasises the importance of the principle of democratic ownership, the principle of non-fragmentation of aid, the need to give priority to the local and regional public market, the integration of horizontal issues such as gender equality, social inclusion, climate change. the greens particularly welcome the introduction of binding measures to ensure that aid schemes are in line with human rights agreements. it is regrettable, however, that the idea, advocated by many ngos, that there is a need to move from an aid effectiveness agenda to a development effectiveness agenda, thus highlighting the urgency of real policy coherence for development, has not been adopted. it is also important to note the attempt by the epp group, which was thwarted by the opposition of the green group, to weaken our proposal for a financial transaction tax as an alternative source of finance.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, arcelormittal is closing one by one its factories in the union on the pretext of overcapacity, with the consequence of direct or indirect redundancies of thousands of employees. in the same vein, arcelormittal, which has enjoyed billions of euros in state aid and tax breaks year after year, continues its relentless pursuit of profit. for example, the walloon region provided mittal with hundreds of millions of euros in aid for co2 allowances and more than 110 million for investments, while at the same time the group made a net profit of 238 billion, for the benefit of its shareholders alone. the public subsidies only financed mittal's devastating strategy: buying a competitor at a low price, stealing its know-how, then destroying it, and finally importing at a lower cost. mittal is a predator, but it is national and european political choices that have enabled and financed his predatory work. yes, it's the result of your policies, and your institutions remain slavish to the end to mittal, because at the time he's going to cut jobs, you still offer to give him public funds. so, what do we do now? there are two possible solutions to this question: the solution of the majority of this parliament, which consists in crying and relying on the 'saint-marché' by burning a candle, giving more public funds through the globalisation adjustment fund, putting citizens under anxiolytic, waiting for the next elections, or that of the european progressives, who propose the nationalization of arcelormittal, given the billions of public aid that this group has boasted. the aim was to create a public group in the form of a european integrated steel industry eig, supported by the high-technology laboratories of our universities. contrary to the criminal idiocy that is being told, the steel industry is not an industry of the past; it is a very important part of the european steel industry. we still have the know-how, the means of production and the skilled workers. so, let's not let mittal or others destroy them! let us protect them, let us develop the european steel industry. let us finally give europe the industrial policy it will need tomorrow! (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of redundancies affecting workers across europe should make us reflect on the role we as policy makers have to play in dealing with multinational companies that act without any social ethics, that carry out mass redundancies and relocate to reduce costs, increase shareholder profits and please rating agencies, in defiance of social and environmental standards. in its resolution of 29 september on the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund, parliament clearly expressed its desire to support, above all, employees affected by the negative effects of restructuring. we also asked the commission to ensure that the assistance from the egf is consistent with the industrial policy of the european union, in particular through the use of the structural funds. we also insisted that the future regulations on the egf should include improvements so that the fund does not have the moral hazard that it has today, as demonstrated by the examples of arcelormittal and nokia. commissioner, we can no longer continue to look at the question of the structural funds and the globalisation adjustment fund separately without taking account of the restructuring strategies of the companies that benefit from them and without examining the cost-benefit ratio of a policy, i repeat very clearly, for the benefit of european workers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission must today demonstrate that the industrial policy it is calling for is not a mere word. we cannot accept, it has been said, that economically viable sites, with efficient tools, competent employees, can be closed down for the cynical calculation of financial profits. as regards florange, i call on the commission to speed up its selection procedure for the ner300 programme, because we must consider all other scenarios which could sustain activity on european soil. the site, as part of the ulcos project, contains all the elements needed to establish a pilot project for the capture and storage of co2, thus meeting the difficult balance between heavy industry and environmental protection. the longer the blast furnaces are shut down, the more expensive it is to restart them and the greater the risk that the project will collapse, which would be catastrophic not only for the lorraine steel basin but also more broadly for all european regions interested in reproducing this type of equipment. the european union was born with the steel industry. we cannot let it explode and die because of a financial crisis, and the end and death of the steel industry, for our jobs, for our regions and for our employees.
madam president, the case of arcelormittal is emblematic of the consequences of your policies, not just the policies of the commission, but the policies which have been encouraged by the majority of this parliament. we are hearing today a kind of concert of mourners coming from the environmental groups, the liberal groups, the ppe groups, the socialist groups. however, ladies and gentlemen, you voted for all the texts that have led to the present situation, you approved these policies, you approved the general free trade, you approved the world trade organisation agreements which hand european industry over to a number of foreign speculators. you discover today, with extraordinary candor, a naivety that honors your innocence, your freshness of mind, you discover, for example, that the nationality of an investor can ultimately be a factor in the choice of his policies. you also discover that capitalism obeys its financial interests rather than the interests of employment or the interests of industry. it's kind of confusing to see that. the commission has its responsibility, of course. it has systematically opposed the creation of large european industrial groups, under the pretext of maintaining freedom of competition, and it has opposed the purchase of alcan by pechiney, for example, in the name of competition. it opposed the merger between atr and de havilland, fearful that a european group could exercise a dominant position on the world market. today, because of you, it is arcelormittal that holds this dominant position in the steel industry, that is keeping it and that is ruining what is left of the european steel industry. it's your responsibility and no one else's.
madam president, commissioner, with this report - and i congratulate our rapporteur, mrs bastos - we have sought to open a dialogue with the european commission. on your behalf, your colleague, mrs damanaki, has repeated your proposals for the use of the european social fund to ensure that in all projects 25% is devoted to training and to the use of the european social fund. but we are concerned that in a crisis situation, which we have been discussing here since the beginning of the day, we could punish countries which are having difficulty complying with the criteria of the stability pact by cutting the structural funds, and in particular the european social fund. this is not the way europe will equip itself to meet the challenge it faces of emerging from the crisis and implementing its europe 2020 strategy , for which the objectives of job creation and combating social exclusion are absolutely paramount. if we are to meet this challenge successfully, the question of training as mrs bastos proposes it is essential. in this case, it must also be borne in mind that the existence of new types of jobs must not make us ignore one of the strengths of european democracy, namely the functioning of social dialogue. we do not accept that this idea of collective agreements, which have made the success of social democracy in europe, should be abandoned. in addition, commissioner, you also said, through your colleague, that eures was a valuable asset for the free movement of workers at european level. i think we need to, together, reopen this site to make sure that this tool is working effectively. i hear from some quarters that we could improve the way it works and i would be glad if we could work with the committee on employment and social affairs to that end.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs bastos, for her work and her fruitful collaboration with the members of the committee on culture and education, of which i am a member. we share the european commission's view that young europeans need to be better qualified and that we need to redefine some of the skills that learners may need today. our proposals must not only meet the needs of the job pools but must also ensure equal and universal access to quality public education and lifelong learning, in order to foster the intellectual and social development of all citizens, and young people in particular, given their unacceptably high rate of excessive unemployment. to do this, i believe two aspects are essential: first, digital skills, which are becoming increasingly important in our changing knowledge society. the commission should also be able to provide support to the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the member states should therefore integrate digital culture into education and training systems, while teaching a critical approach to modern forms of communication and media content. secondly, more generally, education and training have their place in the green new deal that we environmentalists want to establish in the european union. first of all, we must accelerate the transition to a sustainable economy and develop the enormous potential for green jobs that exists across europe, in order to protect and restore the quality of the environment and the quality of life of our citizens, in sectors as diverse as transport, energy supply and public services. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, apart from a few statements refusing in full to discuss the matter of maternity leave, the council has remained silent for almost a year. this deafening silence had to be exposed, as it is today. parliament has said it and will say it again: it is ready to discuss. if 20 weeks' maternity leave is still an objective for us, it is still possible to discuss and find compromises. we should not be naive about the question of cost, since this question has been widely discussed. governments say that in times of crisis the cost of this measure would be unbearable. let us not be naive, i said, because this measure already exists for many women, especially in france. they already supplement their maternity leave with sick leave or paid leave. but what i think is even more intolerable is that governments continue to disregard parliament: this is unacceptable on a matter so crucial to the daily lives of our citizens. we are in a world where a trader can almost trigger an economic crisis with the push of a button and we, meanwhile, still have to wait. what we want now is for the council to finally take a formal position on this matter.
in writing. the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks raises real questions. first, such a measure would entail considerable costs, amounting to eur 2 billion per year for france alone. and as a woman, and a woman who is committed, i have to ask myself: would not such a prolonged maternity leave do more harm than good to women? further distance from work may lead to a loss of skills, increase the duration of underpaid work and thus increase inequality between men and women at the time of recruitment. in addition, should we not remember that while france grants 16 weeks of maternity leave, its birth and fertility rates are among the highest in the european union? france was one of the first countries to put in place active measures to support families by developing childcare systems, day nurseries and measures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and private life. the french example has much to offer. i think that this is the kind of measure for women that we must give priority to.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no political europe without fiscal europe. unfortunately, the two cases which are the subject of our debate today show the commission's lack of ambition in this area. as regards the taxation of parent companies and subsidiaries in different member states, the application of the present directive leads to undertaxation which is harmful to the public finances of the member states. it creates a windfall effect in favour of transnational groups. to deal with this, i proposed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that a parent company should be exempt from tax on profits made by its subsidiary only on two conditions: first, that it should maintain for an uninterrupted period of at least two years the minimum 15% shareholding required in the capital of a company in another member state to benefit from the tax scheme. unfortunately, the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not adopt this minimum duration. second, the profits distributed by the subsidiaries to their parent companies were taxed at a rate equal to or higher than 75% of the average rate applicable in the member states of the union. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has set the threshold at 70% of the average rate, and i welcome that. the european commission did not think it appropriate to speak during our debate. it's a shame, though. we are left to hope, commissioner, that you will follow up on our signal, since parliament is still not a co-legislator in tax matters. secondly, your lack of tax recklessness: your inaction in regard to the council's stifling of the directive on the taxation of savings. the resulting vacuum opens the door to the conclusion of bilateral agreements on the exchange of banking information, such as those concluded by the united kingdom and germany with switzerland. the directive on taxation of savings opened the way to automatic exchange of information with several tax havens, including switzerland. it was the subject of a report which was approved by an overwhelming majority in parliament. while mr barnier explains that there is no more money available to finance growth, the application of this directive would allow €200 billion to be allocated to public finances. to get out of the crisis, the tax tool is indispensable. tax harmonization is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is crucial to the restoration of public accounts. for all these reasons, commissioner, i can only call on you to use your energy to promote a fiscal europe, in order to put an end to the self-destructive competition between member states, whose first victims are growth, public finances and solidarity between european citizens.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, we welcome the reinstatement of the commission's draft budget on the lines relating to the committee on employment and social affairs. the commissioner was kind enough to greet him. in general, we think this is important. this budget is the first budget since the arab democratic revolution began on 14 january this year. we support and welcome the action of the european training foundation, which aims to ensure that social dialogue and the development of the labour market, in the dialogue we are about to engage with these partners on the southern shore of the mediterranean, can be supported by the budget of the european union. unfortunately, this is not the first budget in the present crisis. we therefore consider that all the measures that can be taken to support youth employment, particularly through the pilot project we have started and the eures first job project for young people, are absolutely essential and we hope that in the budgetary conciliation this project will be maintained within the budgetary envelope we have voted for.
mr president, our group will abstain in this vote. this abstention is the result of a contradictory feeling. on the one hand, we cannot but deplore the commission's inertia and even autism on the energy question. since our last budget debate, there has been the nuclear disaster at fukushima. germany, italy, switzerland and others immediately learned the fundamental consequences. at the commission level, and this budget is the expression of that, there is little or no movement. we are seeing only marginal adjustments, and there is still this stubborn insistence on supporting ecological and technological dead ends, such as shale gas or the very expensive iter project. on the other hand, we want to weigh in with the largest possible majority to counter the unsustainable budget cuts made by the council. the council is not proposing a saving measure, but a throttling measure, to cut eur 3.5 billion in payment appropriations when the 2007-2013 contracts are being fulfilled and the needs are therefore very high. parliament must show solidarity with such an anti-european attitude. as the negotiations begin, it is important to remember that the european budget has never been in deficit, that there is no european debt and that this budget generates considerable added value through the pooling of resources and policies. to attack the financial resources of the european union is not to combat the economic and financial crisis, it would only make it worse.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs on the quality of their work and make a further comment. just two years ago, some of my colleagues seem to have forgotten, the finance ministers accused the union of spending too little and too slowly. the european council is trying, in a cruel irony, to find a solution to the excessive indebtedness to which this attitude has led. from the first day of this crisis, parliament has wanted to be involved in finding solutions. we are aware, mr president-in-office, of the constraints to which national budgets are no longer able to escape. they are measured in payment credits. we are willing to reach an agreement quickly, but we will be attentive to four points: first, the consideration of parliament's priorities, as our rapporteurs have indicated, in particular on competitiveness expenditure and on europe's action in the world. secondly, the consistency between the decisions taken by the european council and their budgetary translation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, justice for the countries which most need european help to make up for the backlog to which a tragic history has condemned them. these countries must not be the indirect victims of the mismanagement of certain other member states. fourthly, the financing of the priorities of the flagship actions of the europe 2020 strategy. the financial markets themselves are now realizing that the best guarantee for debt repayment is a return to growth. we often blame markets and bankers for being shortsighted. let us not be blinded when they themselves begin to see a little better.
mr president, for the second year in a row we are witnessing a game of tricks, since the commission, is it not the commissioner, has formulated a budgetary proposal which makes it possible to implement the programmes committed, without developing them or taking over the powers of lisbon. the council, based on the dogma of austerity, decides on arbitrary cuts in programmes of prime importance, in view of the economic and social context. our proposal aims to mobilise the union budget in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and focuses on programmes relating to research, employment, competitiveness, cohesion and public investment. this is a consistent position, which we owe to the strong involvement of our rapporteur, mrs balzani. she's the one who should be thanked. but the union's budget is under-resourced, constrained by member states whose only aim is austerity, the reduction of the public sphere, the punishment of the territories - i am thinking here of macroeconomic conditionality - and that of the citizens, starting with the poorest of them - and i am thinking here of the sad and regrettable fate which the council intends to reserve for the european food aid programme, the european food aid programme. let's face it, you know? at this stage, no own resources, no eurobonds, a dominant intergovernmental method and a ridiculous budget, just as this discussion is likely to be, given the stakes of the european summit and the billions raised by mrs merkel and mr sarkozy to reassure the financial markets.
mr president, in the midst of an acute crisis, we have a balanced and responsible budget which sets a number of priorities. the european union needs competitiveness, reciprocity in international trade, producers, but also a strong industrial policy, research policy and energy policy, and a europe that speaks with one voice in the world. i believe we also need a budget which, as some of my colleagues have said, maintains the european programme of aid to the most deprived, of course, and which is geared towards young people, who are one of the first victims of this crisis. by increasing our support for the lifelong learning programme by 5%, we are sending an interesting signal, in the same way that we must make mobility, volunteering and solidarity the vectors of change for young people in europe with the youth on the move programme, and we must deepen this by setting up a genuine erasmus for apprentices. finally, in the face of the crisis, we need a real federal budget with own resources, such as the financial transaction tax proposed by president sarkozy and chancellor merkel. in an increasingly difficult international climate, we must stand firm and make the budget a tool to consolidate the europe of the people, to strengthen the europe of the workers and to consolidate the europe of the producers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, president of the council of ministers, my first words are to congratulate our rapporteurs, mrs gräßle and mr rivellini, and the rapporteurs of the groups, who have done a considerable amount of work. i would like to speak first of all about simplification and thank both the commissioner and the rapporteur for moving towards that simplification. citizens, national and local authorities can no longer afford to do that. every time we have increases in the error rate, it's because the regulations are too complex. i would therefore like to thank you very much for the cohesion funds and for the research, following on from the excellent report by our colleague, mr carvalho. i would also like to thank the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control for agreeing to introduce some consistency and to allow the use of international accounting standards for the public sector in the future. we had to get rid of the inconsistency that the accountant of the european union was setting his own standards. i also thank you for considering shortening the time limits for granting discharge, which we only give after 16 months, which is far too long. i will conclude with two points. first, the national declarations. i am very reserved about these national declarations. i believe we need to have a political and technical debate to verify that these statements are in line with international auditing standards applicable to the public sector. we never ask the managing authorities for insurance statements in the audit. we ask for letters of recommendation, saying nothing is hidden, but no letters of assurance. it's not the job of a minister to audit. in fact, in the member states which have accepted this principle, the error rates are not lower than in the other member states. in conclusion, i would like to thank the committees for agreeing that we should have an investment section in the european union to split up the operation of investment. we will finally be able to have a budgetary framework for our major investment projects - galileo, iter - which are planned for periods far in excess of the annual framework, or even the financial perspective. this is a considerable budgetary progress in order to also take account of future project bonds and to have a large european investment plan for growth in the union.
in writing. the european parliament votes on the union's annual budget for 2012 and, as every year, it stands behind the european commission against the common sense of member states to limit spending. while the question of own resources (the european tax) is temporarily relegated to the background in this period of economic and budgetary crisis, the eu is still asking europeans for €147 billion, much of which is simply wasted on unnecessary projects and aid. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is not just the united states that has been a major player in the world economy. we firmly reject this excessive budget and call on france, a large net contributor, to defend the interests of the french people effectively.
in writing. despite the progress made in this draft budget and its support for many green pilot projects, i voted against block 1 of the general draft of the european union (fy 2012). it includes the administrative costs of the iter nuclear project and a €200,000 pilot project for shale gas, which i do not want to support. for obvious health reasons, the abolition of subsidies to the tobacco industry is a good proposal. however, in the absence of a sufficient conversion plan for small producers in the sector, i abstained on amendment no 498 in the draft budget. i abstained on amendment no 1242/2 to the draft budget which provides for an increase in the budget for the european parliament's security services. the security system in parliament seems to me to be more than adequate. public money could be invested in other areas.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, the european parliament has increased its budgetary powers. the european parliament and the council of the european union now share full budgetary competence. for the 2012 budget of the european union, we focused on the need to help europe get through the current crisis better. so my colleagues and i have decided to increase the share of the budget allocated to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. parliament also draws lessons from past crises, such as the e-coli crisis. we voted for an exceptional aid of eur 250 million for farmers affected by this crisis last summer. we also voted in favour of maintaining the european programme of aid to the most deprived at its 2011 level, which is currently being blocked in the council of ministers. in the face of all these challenges, but in a context of budgetary austerity, we have also shown ourselves responsible: we have devoted 93% of the draft budget to future expenditure and investment, and only 7% to operating expenditure! it is now up to the council to decide on this.
in writing. in the 2012 budget, i support the allocation of €250 million for fruit and vegetable producers, the continuation of the programme to help the poorest, which is now under threat, and the globalisation adjustment fund. i voted against the amendments to increase the funding of iter, because i believe that this research project should be carried out on a constant budget. the budget has been growing exponentially since its inception, so iter should now expand with the funds available. more generally, i support the overall budget proposal for 2012: parliament's position as expressed in plenary on the budget is to enable the eu to finance its priorities, to give real substance to the 2020 strategy. the eu must, in this period, prove its worth and thus be strengthened to finance innovative projects that will generate growth.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of a balanced and responsible 2012 budget. i particularly welcome the decision to provide an additional eur 250 million to help fruit and vegetable producers, as well as parliament's determination to maintain the european programme to help the most deprived at its 2011 level. parliament has also shown responsibility by reducing its operating costs: freezing allowances, a 5% reduction in travel costs, a €10 million cut in interpretation costs.
in writing. while the european agriculture ministers have once again failed to find a solution for the maintenance of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead), an amendment calling for the budget allocated to this programme to be maintained has been largely adopted by the european parliament. if there is one programme that needs support, it is clearly the pead. unfortunately, despite the support of the european parliament, the european commission, the vast majority of member states and the mobilisation of associations on the ground, six member states (germany, denmark, the netherlands, the czech republic, the united kingdom and sweden) continue to oppose and block any solution. this is not acceptable. however, at the present time, providing funding of eur 480 million per year is a minimum. the solutions to the blockade exist: the european commission has proposed that, on a transitional basis, it should be possible to use both the cap's food surpluses and to buy supplements on the market, using the legal basis of social cohesion. we expect european leaders to assume their duty of solidarity. the future of the spd must be guaranteed. no one would understand otherwise.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the draft 2012 budget of the european union because the proposed increase in expenditure is too substantial. in a context of austerity, where states impose sacrifices on their peoples, it is important that the european union also contributes to the general effort. i will nevertheless support a moderate increase in the budget so that the union's major industrial projects (galileo, gmes, iter) can be financed and so that our food independence can be preserved (cap credits).
in writing. the elv meps abstained on the vote on the 2012 budget at first reading on 26 october 2011. we strongly deplore the creation of a €200,000 envelope 'to finance pilot projects or other support activities to analyse and establish a dialogue on public acceptance of exploration and exploitation of shale gas'. we cannot accept that any european penny should be used to finance propaganda campaigns in favour of shale gas. the first post-fukushima budget still allocates a large share to the iter nuclear reactor, a costly and unnecessary project which is an energy and ecological dead end. for these two reasons at least, we could not vote in favour of this draft budget, although green pilot projects, an increase in funding for aid to palestine and significant savings in administrative expenditure were adopted. we have therefore chosen to abstain, in particular so as not to weaken parliament's position in view of the difficult negotiations which are now about to begin with the council.
in writing. who are they kidding with this budget? people, of course! throughout the week, various debates have been devoted to the need for budgetary austerity, the reduction of sovereign debts, the efforts to be made by the member states, that is to say by their populations, who will pay more taxes to benefit from fewer public services. saving, saving, saving! what are you doing? except for the european union, which wants to increase its budget by 4.9%, and the european parliament, which wants to increase it by 5.2%. what's the point? to weed out national civil servants to hire european civil servants? to sprinkle funds here and there to pretend to support employment, while pursuing a policy which systematically destroys it? spending more and more on communication to let people know how good europe is, without ever seriously explaining why? why bother? it is the states that are stealing! if this budget were to be accepted, france's contribution to the european budget would increase by 1.3 billion euros! where can you find them? in the markets? you can't be serious!
in writing. for obvious health reasons, the abolition of subsidies to the tobacco sector is a good proposal. however, in the absence of a sufficient conversion plan for small producers in the sector, i abstained on amendment no 37 to the report.
in writing. our parliament has this week voted on the draft eu budget for 2012, and i voted in favour of this text. in particular, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has once again voted overwhelmingly in favour of maintaining the pead, a matter which the council continues to block. a political solution to this issue is essential and of the utmost urgency for the most vulnerable among us. i also voted in favour of an additional €250 million to finance specific measures to help fruit and vegetable producers affected by the health crisis last summer. i also voted in favour of the budgetary amendments to increase the amounts allocated to the european refugee fund, the european asylum office and frontex, in order to support the common immigration and asylum policy that the european union has put in place and is building and strengthening. finally, in the present context of budgetary difficulties, the european parliament has also called for a reduction in its operating budget by voting budgetary amendments which we also supported.
in writing. i supported the parliament's position on the 2012 draft budget. the challenge is to bring the draft budget up to the level of the commission's original proposal in the negotiations with the council, based on our political priorities such as employment and growth. today more than ever, in the context of the ongoing crisis, the european budget must be strengthened to restart the economic machine and protect those who need it. the increase in parliament's budget was strictly limited to the increase needed to accommodate the 18 new members, and €25 million will be saved, notably on transport and translation costs and through the freezing of members' allowances.
in writing. the majority of this house, in favour of the european semester and the legislative package on economic governance, is concerned that its budgetary year is limited by a framework it has not chosen. she should learn the lessons that are necessary. the report and the accompanying budget proposal are in line with the euro-liberal and security policies which i oppose. i appreciate, however, that they are calling for the budgetary envelope for the food distribution programme for the most deprived people to be maintained and for aid to palestine to be increased.
in writing. today the fate of the euro is at stake in brussels, and with it the fate of europe as we know it, given the seriousness of the financial crisis we are going through. the member states must meet three challenges: show solidarity to help states that are close to bankruptcy, clean up their public finances and invest in growth. they cannot do it alone: a stronger european union is the only realistic solution to this crisis. we are faced with a complicated situation when we vote on the 2012 budget. how can europe, which depends on national contributions, effectively fulfil its mission in a context of shortage of public money and when some member states are literally in the doldrums? we are voting today for a realistic and courageous budget, saving wherever possible. the parliament proposes to save €74 million in its 2012 budget compared with the estimates of its needs made at the beginning of the year. the european union will be able to concentrate on its core missions: supporting competitiveness, future investment and growth in europe.
in writing. i regret the position adopted by parliament this morning on the draft 2012 budget. i therefore voted against this resolution. this budget, which is intended to focus on growth, employment and innovation, proposes more expenditure on the security and control of the european union's borders (a policy whose damage is already known), on support for research projects with a questionable impact on the environment and public health, on support for large enterprises (without social counterparts), than on education, youth, citizenship and the development of third countries in the framework of fair partnerships. i also deeply regret that the european parliamentarians, in the logic of rationalising the resources allocated to the administration, are prepared to accept cuts in the budget allocated to translation and interpretation, to the detriment of preserving the cultural and linguistic diversity of the union, as well as democracy, which requires citizens to understand parliamentary work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the united states and the european union which calls for bilateral cooperation on their respective satellite navigation systems, gps and galileo.
in writing. technology exchange is essential to effectively disseminate innovation and maximise its use. this is what is provided for in the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the promotion, supply and use of the european galileo satellite navigation systems and the american gps. the recommendation by herbert reul, which i welcome, goes in this direction, supporting the development of a global navigation system for civil, commercial and scientific use, based on a permanent reciprocal use of the american and european systems. i also welcome the establishment of working groups between the parties concerned. this is essential to foster the interoperability of systems, which is the key to successful technology exchanges.
in writing. the european parliament is only consulted on certain matters. the council then issues an opinion which is not legally binding. in the present case, the european parliament was consulted on the tax regime applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states which is about to be amended. i voted in favour of the opinion drawn up by my colleague sven giegold, because it proposes to introduce amendments of a limited scope in order to prevent extreme forms of under-taxation or non-taxation.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which again amends the tax regime applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries within the union. i support the position of the committee responsible, which advocates a restriction of the scope of application in order to combat the non-taxation or under-taxation of companies.
in writing. this is the first time i have abstained on a report on taxation. the explanatory statement is a major factor in this choice. the rapporteur notes in particular that the legislation in force, together with the free movement of capital, allows large transnational companies to play with the location of their various subsidiaries in order to avoid corporation tax as much as possible. some call this tax optimization. i say it's a scam. in france, the large firms in the cac 40 pay an average of 10% tax, while smes are taxed at the maximum. the establishment of subsidiaries in tax havens, where they have no other activity than to store a part of the profits made elsewhere, such as the practice of transfer pricing, are scandals that must be stopped. the legitimate desire to limit double taxation to the greatest possible extent has in fact created endless possibilities for non-taxation or under-taxation, tax evasion and even fraud. and i now have a completely different view of the common consolidated corporate tax base, which parliament is advocating, which would prevent multinational companies from playing this unhealthy and harmful little game within the union.
in writing. the report claims to combat fiscal dumping by minimum harmonisation of the tax on profits paid by subsidiaries to their parent companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax on the income of the enterprises is reduced to a level of 70%, which is barely 16,24% of the average statutory corporation tax rate in the member states. this is much less than the vat rates which the states unfairly impose on their entire population under pressure from the troika! this proposal is minimalist. it can also be used as a tax niche. however, it does allow for a positive approach, since it contradicts the prohibition on tax harmonization contained in the lisbon treaty. i vote for it.
in writing. among the new prerogatives granted to the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon is the revision of the financial regulation of the union's annual budget. in the context of the current crisis, we must show responsibility. it is therefore important to ensure the efficient and transparent use of the budget. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues, crescenzio rivellini and ingeborg grässle.
in writing. i welcome the progress made by the new financial regulation adopted by parliament. it will in particular simplify the management of the structural funds through clearer procedures. however, the process of simplification is not over. much remains to be done to facilitate the work of the beneficiaries of funds and of public administrations. we will ensure that the new regulations on the structural funds are in line with this.
in writing. this report endorses the public-private partnership approach, a source of waste and plunder promoted by the commission. i vote against it.
in writing. the eu must have the means to overcome the economic and financial crisis it is currently experiencing. i am convinced that the eu must redouble its efforts to generate growth and create jobs, and i voted in favour of the report by my colleague regina bastos. the agenda new skills for new jobs is part of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve a 75% employment rate for european citizens aged 20-64 by 2020. in addition, improving the skills of the workforce, alternative apprenticeships and improving the functioning of the labour market, for example by reducing administrative burdens for smes, will make the union more competitive.
in writing. some of the structural unemployment that our societies are experiencing today is due to the gap between qualifications, training and job requirements. the bastos report stresses the need to anticipate future skills needs in order to match the training supply to the realities of the labour market. i believe that a better match between supply and demand is one of the keys to employment policies, especially for young people. we will have to link this strategy for new skills and jobs with the one we are developing for young people (youth on the move initiative). finally, i regret that the amendment rejecting the european commission's proposal to consider the creation of a single indefinite-term contract in the eu offering progressive social rights has been rejected. such a contract would only introduce new discrimination, creating a new category of workers who would also be weakened by not having full social protection.
in writing. the european union has set itself the target of achieving an employment rate of 75% by 2020 for the 20-64 age group. this rate might be considered excessive in view of the particularly violent times we are living in. we are facing a series of challenges today: the economic and financial crisis, demographic change, migratory flows affecting the competitiveness of our companies, especially smes, in a market subject to increased competitive pressure. however, we must not give in to the pessimism and if we look to a growth rate of employment of slightly above 1% per annum by 2020, this target could be achieved. i therefore welcome the adoption of the bastos report, which proposes priorities for action to meet this challenge - improving the functioning of the labour market, increasing the skills of the workforce, improving the quality of jobs and working conditions, strengthening policies to promote job creation and support the demand for work - and the practical measures to achieve this: strengthening cooperation between educational institutions and enterprises, simplifying administrative procedures to promote worker mobility...
in writing. the text calls on the states to officially recognise the contribution of the social economy and its essential role in economic, social and territorial cohesion. it called for the social protection of european workers to be strengthened and promoted the role of the social partners. but he gives with one hand what he takes back with the other. he advocates flexicurity, teleworking, self-employment and even employee volunteering as well as lowering the retirement age. it supports university-enterprise partnerships and offers internships as a response to youth unemployment. it's inconsistent. i vote against it.
in writing. unemployment now affects almost 10% of europeans. the economic and financial crisis that we have been experiencing since 2008 has only made the situation worse. while the europe 2020 strategy sets the target of achieving a 75% employment rate for the 20-64 age group by 2020, it is clear that we face increasing challenges in preserving our social model. the training of workers and the labour market must adapt to this new difficult economic situation. that is the direction in which the measures proposed by regina bastos in her report are going, and i welcome that. major progress is now needed in supporting continuing education and training, protecting the social rights of workers throughout their careers, and investing heavily in research and innovation to create jobs for the future and improve working conditions. ambitious policies to match workers' expectations with labour market needs must be undertaken, including, as the report wisely proposes, through the creation of european sectoral councils on employment and skills.
in writing. i voted against this report, which is not in itself negative and even makes a number of observations which i can only share. but it is a report paved with good intentions, which does not call into question the policies of the european union and the famous europe 2020 strategy. the focus is always on 'facilitating effective competitiveness', 'promoting smart growth', 'improving human capital' (sic), promoting european centres of excellence, 'strengthening the four strands of flexicurity' or 'ensuring that older workers can stay longer in the labour market'. these few words, taken at random from the reading of this report, show that there is no will to change the fundamental orientations of the european union's policy, to finally draw the consequences of the crisis.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have debated this issue numerous times and i think you are aware of my commitment and my services’ commitment to finding a solution. it is very frustrating to be discussing formalities when the most vulnerable people in the world are waiting for us to make a decision. we need to find procedures to overcome this so that we can put the programme in place as soon as possible. i know that the polish presidency, like the hungarian presidency, tried to find a compromise, but it did not gather sufficient support. we are aware of the informal counter-proposal put by the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. the problem is that it raises some important legal and institutional concerns, most specifically regarding the establishment of a procedure outside the treaty which would nonetheless legally bind the commission. the european refugee fund is a complex fund with well-defined rules; some would say too well-defined. pledging of resettlement must take place every year in june. as the resettlement fund only runs until 2013, next year’s pledging exercise will be the last in his current fund. it will therefore be the last chance for us to establish annual eu resettlement priorities under the present rules. any amendment to the fund decision must be finalised in the coming month to ensure that pledging by member states could take place next spring under the new rules. we are committed to making every effort to work with the council, the co-legislators, the rapporteur and parliament to try to finalise a compromise that could establish an eu joint resettlement programme under the present financial perspective. but such a compromise must respect the rules and the procedures in the treaty, must ensure the smooth functioning of the fund and must be acceptable to all parties. i can assure you that we are working hard and we are willing to work even harder to find a flexible way to fund eu resettlement in the future. this is an increasingly important issue, and we hope that increased funding, combined with new more flexible rules in the future, will result in more resettlement in the eu member states, which would express our solidarity with the most vulnerable people in the world.
for the greens/efa group mr president, while tunisia has just held its first democratic elections, the member states of the european union are still struggling to support the aspirations of the peoples of the southern shore of the mediterranean and to show real solidarity. the council's reaction to the revolutions in the countries of the southern shore can no longer be limited to declarations of principle and short-term objectives. the european union must move up the gear by proposing concrete and lasting measures. that's the purpose of this resettlement program. the successful conclusion of the codecision procedure on this matter and, therefore, the implementation by all the member states of the common european programme for the resettlement of refugees at a historic moment would be a sign of our willingness to respond effectively by proposing appropriate instruments and in consultation. today, only ten member states participate in the resettlement of refugees annually, and this without any real coordination. however, the representatives of the member states of the european union have repeatedly stated in recent months that they support the aspirations of the people. this support for the peoples of the partner countries must necessarily be accompanied by an effort of european solidarity in the care of refugees. the european resettlement programme must be an additional tool for the protection of refugees and asylum seekers. it should enable a european policy of hospitality for resettled populations to be implemented. it is urgent that it be implemented. the deadlock must be broken before the end of 2011, and it is the council's responsibility to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that we have to discuss together once again the blocking of the relocation dossier. we have been discussing this for over a year now, but technical issues are still a stumbling block. we are far from the concerns of the refugees who are living in extremely precarious conditions, with no prospect of any change in their situation. today more than ever there is an urgent need to act to finally find a solution to the institutional impasse in which we have been stuck for far too long. our aim must be to provide practical assistance to the growing number of people who are in need of resettlement. let's be honest, granting international protection to those who need it is not just about giving them a status, even though it is difficult. it's not just a piece of paper with a stamp on it. no, it is about giving them the means to rebuild their lives safely. the numbers speak for themselves. in 2010, only 4 700 refugees were resettled in the european union, representing 4.4% of all those resettled that year. in view of this rather unknown score, it must be said, it is worth remembering that this programme is intended to encourage member states to join the movement of collective solidarity in which countries such as the united states and canada are already widely engaged. but beyond the numbers, it is also the content of resettlement itself, the quality of the european system that matters. this system must be based on several essential elements. i would mention three: a clear definition of the selection criteria based on notions of vulnerability and protection needs; adequate reception conditions and access to care, in particular mental health care, to help refugees rebuild their lives; access to employment or training, accompanied by language courses to enable them to become more self-reliant quickly. we are constantly bombarded with talk of austerity, of taking in refugees being too expensive. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the money available from the european refugee fund is likely to be unusable by 2013 if we do not get out of this impasse. so we're walking on our heads. the european union has responsibilities, and it cannot continue to shirk them. member states must commit themselves to providing more places. good intentions are no longer enough. we have to act.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in 1945 alexander fleming was already concerned about the misuse of antibiotics and said: 'instead of eliminating the infection, the risk would be that microbes would learn to resist penicillin and that these same microbes would then be transmitted from one individual to another and cause an infection that penicillin could not cure.' well, today we are faced with this problem, since the european centre for disease prevention and control records 25,000 deaths a year. so we now need a global response, and i fully agree with our president, jo leinen, who is calling for more research and development in the pharmaceutical industry to find new antibiotics. we have been waiting for several decades for the discovery of new molecules and new active ingredients. what i think is particularly important is to control the use of these antibiotics, both in human medicine and in veterinary medicine. it is urgent to define daily consumption levels in the various livestock sectors. we are seeing, and this has been confirmed by various experts, the appearance of antibiotic residues in meat or milk. how can we conceive of feeding such foods to our children? these residues are naturally found on the consumer's plate and encourage the emergence of resistance. it is therefore necessary to make farmers and technicians aware of the effects of the misuse of these antibiotics, especially as the risks of cross-transmission from animals to humans are known. we have a responsibility to our fellow citizens. i say this for my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development who are worried but certainly share the same concerns. that is why, commissioner, we are awaiting your plan with great interest, because we are dealing here with a real public health problem.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i too thank all the members who have worked hard to draft this fine text, the directive before us, and i would add that i am pleased with the firm political expression which emerges from this text and which succeeds in balancing things in such a way that we succeed in protecting children in europe, by fighting concretely against the sexual exploitation and abuse to which they are subject. finding balanced solutions in a fast-changing, technologically advanced world that is both full of wonders, but potentially full of serious, and sometimes even abject risks for everyone, especially for children, is something that is very successful. protecting children by removing child pornography from the internet at source, where possible, or blocking it, is a practical solution. you have, madam commissioner, identified measures which can be included among the priorities of our political agenda with regard to children in europe, knowing that 10 to 20% of european children are victims of sexual abuse, and that in the current crisis, which is bound to last, 19 million children are at risk of poverty on our continent. i welcome those remarks. you have spoken of the hague convention and therefore indirectly of legislation to facilitate the enforcement of court decisions. i would like to draw your attention to the difficulties encountered by binational couples in the enforcement of child custody decisions, particularly with the problem of the jugendamt in germany.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all let me congratulate you on the fact that the rights of the child have become an integral part of the fundamental rights defended by the european union thanks to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is necessary that all european union policies that directly or indirectly affect children are designed, implemented and pursued in the best interests of the child, in accordance with the fundamental rights guaranteed by this charter. i would like to focus my remarks on the special attention that the european union must pay to children and children's rights in the face of the increasingly important development of new communication technologies. unfortunately, these can be a means of facilitating the meeting between a pedophile and his victim, but also serve as a vehicle for the dissemination of child pornography. the european union must respond strongly and uncompromisingly to both these dangers. as regards the risks associated with the use of the internet by children, i believe that prevention should be at the heart of european policies. it's our duty to educate children about online environments. to this end, the european union needs to develop a genuine prevention policy, adapted even to the youngest, to inform children of the risks they face when using the internet. the use of the internet must be made safer and more adapted to the expectations and needs of children. in parallel with this prevention policy, member states should combat new forms of sexual abuse and exploitation, such as online solicitation of children for sexual purposes by an adult (child grooming), who, hidden behind false information on his profile, takes advantage of this situation to commit his crime. finally, i would like to mention the fight against child pornography on the internet. we have an obligation to remove sites with child pornography content and we must do everything we can to remove these sites as quickly as possible. however, if this removal takes too long, particularly in third countries, a temporary solution must of course be put in place to block access to these sites, in the best interests, i repeat, of the children who are victims of these atrocities.
madam president, i would first like to thank my colleague, mrs roberta angelilli, for her outstanding work. his persistence and skill have resulted in a clear text which lays the foundations for a wider protection of children, thanks to clear and relevant definitions. the text recognises the diversity of abuse situations and proposes a framework adapted to each case. no form of violence is left out and the vulnerability of children is fully understood. the internet and the risks it entails are fully integrated into the report. we must applaud this wide-ranging harmonization, which makes significant progress in the prevention of child abuse and in the just punishment of perpetrators. it is high time that the european institutions took up this theme to make it clear that sexual exploitation and abuse of children, in whatever form, is unacceptable. in this capacity, mrs malmström also deserves our thanks. we must protect our children who are often faced with abominations that are beyond them. many advances have been made. the report fills a harmful gap by taking sex tourism into account, even when it takes place outside the european union. i hope that the restriction of access to child pornography, by removing the sites or by rapid and effective blocking of the relevant web pages, will be used by many member states. our children need the best protection within their living space, regardless of their social environment.
in writing. as the commission pointed out, it is estimated that between 10 and 20% of children in europe will be sexually abused during their childhood. these are frightening figures, and if nothing is done to stop this sad phenomenon, the situation will inexorably worsen, affecting children at an ever younger age, with ever greater violence. the council and parliament agreed to harmonise and strengthen preventive and enforcement measures to combat sexual abuse and child pornography. the eu will also be able to take action to combat child grooming, sex tourism - including outside europe - and the production and use of child pornography. the text we are voting on today provides the member states with effective means of combating this phenomenon. i am thinking in particular of the possibility of blocking websites offering child pornography, not limited to the procedures for deleting the site, which can be lengthy and uncertain when the site is hosted abroad. it is estimated that 80 percent of sexual abuse is committed by people who have authority over the child or are in the child's immediate vicinity. the omerta on the victim should not be compounded by the shortcomings of an inadequate legal framework.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are facing a step forward, a great step forward towards the establishment of a common asylum system in the european union, and i hope, like my colleagues, that the adoption of this report will trigger a clear momentum in the negotiations on the other issues of the asylum package which are still blocked. like most of my colleagues, i wish cecilia malmström, who has no shortage of courage, much success in bringing this package forward, and i thank our rapporteur from the bottom of my heart for her enormous work. as i said, we are facing a whole series of advances. i would like to highlight just three of them: firstly, the merging of the two statuses of refugee and beneficiary of subsidiary protection, although i regret that some differences still remain, particularly in the area of residence permits and access to social protection, but this harmonization will come. a second remarkable development - and we have been debating the rights and protection of children in other reports all afternoon - is the very positive provisions concerning children, including the rights of unaccompanied minors, in particular the granting of international protection, as these minors are very often - this is obvious - in very vulnerable situations. finally, i am also pleased that the inclusion of gender identity and sexual orientation as grounds for persecution is a key element of the text. in the face of the movements of the world, the flows of migration, the implementation of the right of asylum is more urgent than ever. that is why we need a common european right of asylum as soon as possible, because it is of course in the interest of individuals, asylum seekers and stateless people, but above all it is also in the interest of the states. it is important to remember this at a time when we are witnessing a retreat and selfishness in all the areas we are dealing with, and this is particularly true of the states on the external borders of the european union, which are under very strong pressure, as our greek colleague has just explained. in conclusion, let me quote, at this late hour, the philosopher kant to sum up my point: "the right of a foreigner, on his arrival in the territory of another state, is not to be treated as an enemy".
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, jean lambert, for the hard work she has done despite some rather difficult discussions with the council on this subject, and i would also like to wish mrs malmström good courage for the future. we're all going to need it. i would also like to point out, as others have done before me, two of the points which i find particularly interesting and which go in the right direction with the outcome of this directive: the definition of family members, of course, which now includes the parents of married minors, and also the introduction of the notions of gender identity and sexual orientation as a recognised ground for persecution. in my view, the various advances in this text are not anecdotal for the outcome of the negotiations on the 'asylum package', if we are to give the text of which it is composed all the coherence it deserves. we should take these elements of the qualification directive as precedents for the directives on reception procedures and conditions or the dublin ii regulation. i know that this approach is not necessarily shared by some member states in the council. but what are our real goals? are we going to have common standards or are we going to continue to maintain a juxtaposition of national systems, the inadequacies and inequalities of which are daily observed, and which themselves are merely maintaining a lottery system of asylum? do we want to continue to see the condemnations of the court for non-compliance with international conventions fall by the wayside? i certainly don't. our aim is to conclude the common asylum system in 2012. this does not mean that we should be satisfied with the lowest common denominator. we must not move forward just to move forward. the cost argument, which we still hear regularly in our discussions, is an inadequate argument even in these times of budgetary constraints. the rationalization of costs, as sometimes expressed by some member states, is only a short-term vision which will fail to solve the structural problems of the european asylum system. today, the trend is towards mistrust and rejection of those who approach european territory. to combat this distrust, clear and shared rules must be established. this is the whole point of the reform of the asylum package, the conclusion of which, according to harmonised standards, would obviously be to the union's credit.
mr president, the european ombudsman is very good at investigating complaints against the institutions and bodies of the european union. this instrument is both necessary to facilitate free movement, for our businesses and our citizens, but it is also a formidable guarantee, especially in the face of the critics of the union, who too often say that it is just a bureaucratic machine without control. this is clearly nonsense. europe is doing a real job on itself, thanks in particular to the european ombudsman. i would like to stress one point, however, which i very much regret, namely that the commission is under fire. first, there are the figures: the proportion of inquiries opened by the ombudsman concerning the european commission is 65% and not 12%. there are also the actors: many companies come to us to explain their incomprehension of a european commission that remains deaf to their requests, in particular for access to documents or transparency in decision-making. not many people get to see it. finally, i would like to share my personal experience: i admit that i have sometimes been shocked by the reactions of certain european commission departments present in the committee on petitions. as you know, the commission gives us its position on petitions, which we always take into account and which is necessary. but occasionally we see commission representatives refusing to answer questions from members or hiding behind a tongue of wood, almost as well as politicians, in front of citizens who are pleading their case. i wanted to remind you that europe must have a human face, that behind the administrative problems that the ombudsman identifies and solves are europeans who are relieved to be listened to but disappointed by these behaviours, citizens negatively affected by their confrontation with the institutions, which risks creating a feeling of revolt, incomprehension and, eventually, perhaps, euroscepticism. i sincerely hope that these criticisms and those of the ombudsman against the institutions in general will be heard.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the council, mr herman van rompuy, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel, i would like to start by saying that in life you can see the glass half full and the glass half empty. i'm more of a glass-half-full kind of guy. i want to thank you for the work you've done in the last 48 hours, because i know, as a farmer, that it's not always the right horse that gets the oats, and i, i'd like to give it to you this morning and tell you... (laughter and applause) if he doesn't like oats, he can give them to the commissioners, no problem, there are a few who do. the elements i took from your speech, and i want to repeat here, is that we take care of the banks, we do not take care enough of the rich, you understand what i mean, but above all, and i thank you for saying it, we must take care of the poorest. it would be a scandal if we did not find a solution to the sgp before the winter months. (applause) i would like to thank some thought monday would be the day. i think that no one in this room was considering that, since we are responsible men and women. but we were also afraid, and last night, late at night, i was watching the news to see if we would indeed have an even deeper crisis this morning or if, as i have often said, the beginning of an exit from the crisis would begin to take shape and take place. i believe, and i congratulate you both - i know it is not easy - that this council has at least given birth to the beginning of a way out of the crisis. it does not go far enough, that's for sure, but i'll come back to it. i also want to highlight the progress made by the 17 in the euro zone. we have seen in recent weeks that the 17 members of the euro zone have been criticised by those outside. i would like to remind parliament that we are all europeans, whether we are inside or outside the euro area. however, we have duties and rights, and those who were most in the forefront of the stage were the seventeen. and i think we've made some progress on that, too. as regards solidarity with greece, after the troika released a new loan tranche, the agreement announced last night with the banks provides for a 50 per cent waiver of the debt. it's a good move. the increase in the leverage of the european financial stability fund is progress and, as everyone knows, one of the most delicate aspects of the negotiations. the agreement of the seventeen on this point is absolutely fundamental. by ensuring that this fund provides credit insurance for investors who buy debt securities from countries considered vulnerable, the resources of the stability fund will be multiplied. third step: recapitalisation of the banks. i think we've said that before". the european council and the euro area have therefore kept their promises for the short term and for part, i should say a small part, of the medium term. my group urges you to move even faster and i do not think you are on holiday. tomorrow morning, we'll have to keep moving forward. the key is to adopt a new model of economic governance without which the euro cannot function sustainably. we repeat ourselves here every day, but we can see that by repeating ourselves, certain things begin to be implemented. this integration and this european policy are absolutely necessary. i note that the countries which are the first to call for strong measures from the euro area have for years, even decades, vigorously rejected any proposal for tax harmonization. they're just not consistent. ladies and gentlemen, the european project is not about imposing anything on anyone. the european project is not to put anyone under guardianship or to govern without respect for democratic powers and counter-powers. but the rules must be observed, my dear josé manuel, and we must ensure that the measures which are accepted, signed on paper, are actually implemented. the european project, the strategy for europe, is also an ambition: to give the 500 million inhabitants a decent life. the epp does not want us to depend on chinese or brazilian investments in the future, but to rely on our own work and know-how. what the epp wants is to chart the path to these results. and that path is through a european sovereignty shared by all who want it. mr president, yesterday you took some good decisions, some difficult and courageous decisions. these measures, however, do not represent the culmination of a crisis exit plan, but only the beginning. i call on the member states, on the national and european members of parliament, and on our fellow citizens to accept further political integration. i call on this parliament and, mr josé manuel, on the european commission to continue to defend the community model, which is a model of inclusion and not exclusion. and i hope that next week the g20 will respect the decisions that have been taken by europe. but they have to be sure that we're not going to stop in the middle of the pier. we need more fiscal and social integration, even if it is not written in the treaty. we must make progress in this area. we do not have time to wait ten years, to wait until we have amended the treaty. we must adopt a regulation if the treaty cannot be implemented quickly. i think we are proving that we can, in difficult times of crisis management, go forward without adhering to the letter of the treaty. and that hurt us a little bit in the european parliament. we felt a little bit like we'd been forgotten. but i still think, josé manuel, as you said this morning, that you are implementing what we voted for here.
mr president, mr president, mr commissioner, thank you for coming after these difficult days and this short night. there are several positive elements in what you have announced. we're glad things didn't turn out that way. i want to ask you a question. we are all committed to the success of what you are proposing and i do not feel like asking you to involve this parliament for institutional reasons. i want to draw your attention to what we could do to help you achieve your own ambitions. you said earlier, mr van rompuy, very rightly, that we are discovering that economies are interdependent. couldn't you discover that democracies are interdependent? the mutual pressure we must exert on each other will be unbearable if it is perceived by the people as a dictate from the central bank, the commission or even the council. look what happened between the french and the italians this week. could we not use this parliament much more as a place of pressure on each other in a democratic setting, giving the majority and the opposition in each country the opportunity to speak - which is not the case in the council? i have the greatest respect for the bundestag. i have great respect for german democracy, but we cannot interrupt the summits just so that the representatives of the german people can speak. let us use the german experience, the quality of german democracy, to transfer it to the european level. we all need to have a say on these issues.
mr president, mr van rompuy, in your speech you spoke of peer pressure and market pressure, but i think you have forgotten the pressure of the citizens, because when i look at the plan you adopted last night, you are applying the same recipe to italy as to greece. but this recipe is indigestible and it doesn't work. if you want to amplify the problems we have in greece tomorrow by applying the same recipe in italy, go ahead, but i am sure that the pressure of the citizens will change the situation. you didn't use the word "tax" at all. several members have mentioned the fact that tax evasion is a major problem in europe. we are the region in the world where we have the greatest tax competition. we are a single market but we do not have tax harmonization. we must get out of this paradox. you know the numbers. in italy, according to the government, 120 billion euros a year are not paid in italian taxes, in greece 200 billion, in france 100 billion, in germany 150 billion. there is no point in appealing to precarious employees, the unemployed, small civil servants and pensioners if you do not tackle tax evasion as a priority. you haven't said a word. this is an incredible, unfair omission from yesterday's summit.
mr president, mr president of the european commission, welcome mr president of the european council, you are a great european democrat and european democracy is being expressed here. you're at home here. i would like to recall a couple of points. firstly, we are not in a euro crisis. the euro is not the problem. the euro is the answer. we are not in a european crisis. europe is not the problem, it is the solution. the problem is the debts of the member states. it is the financial stability of the member states that you have protected at the level of the euro area and the european union, and i thank you for that. we must ask ourselves: what would have happened if we had not had the euro? the franc, escudo and peseta would have been devalued by 10 to 35%, the greek drachma by 40%, and the deutsche mark would have been revalued by 20%. let us ask ourselves this question and recognize that we have a great chance of having the euro, which is a sound currency, with huge foreign exchange reserves, respected on a global level. the truth is that we are moving towards more european union and, as the european council of 23 october said, towards a growth strategy with the single market. we'll go head-to-head at the g20. as jean-pierre jouyet has written, it is a pity that, in the great irony of history, it is the financial markets that will impose political europe. it is great news that we are moving towards the political europe we all want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the feeling i have this morning is one of relief and concern. the relief, because tonight's deal has the merit of existing because we couldn't afford another failure. the restructuring of greek debt brings the european effort to over €200 billion, by adding the cancellation of private debts, the eurozone stability fund and the public aid plan. the recapitalisation of banks loosens the noose by increasing own funds. and above all, i welcome the increase in the eurozone rescue fund to 1 000 billion euros - at last, i would say - because the socialists have always considered that this fund was insufficiently endowed. but as a european, here are the reasons for my concern, and they are serious. i fear that we have, tonight, strengthened our capacity to bridge the gaps, by neglecting the foundations of our common edifice. two major reservations must be made in interpreting this agreement: first, short-termism. the measures adopted this morning concern the financial plan only and do not represent a long-term solution to the needs of economic integration. this morning the council responded to the european banking, debt and euro crisis: this is crucial. but the absence of prospects for growth and the silence on economic convergence and employment are allowing some to speculate that we are still fragile. while we need to carry out structural reforms to invest and boost growth, the preferred choice is the 'euro plus' pact. we do not accept that. we must not substitute over-dependence on the market for dependence on competing countries which do not respect social norms or environmental norms. the second reservation is that of budgetary authoritarianism, which adds police to the rigorousness. in reality, we are faced today with a double imperative: to clean up public finances and to revive growth. this balance must be political. it is the result of a choice we have made for the european citizens we represent. the court of justice must not be a substitute for political will and the obligation of solidarity between us. we must not revise the treaty under the pressure of speculators. the choice of greater integration is our political duty, it is the duty of this parliament.
in writing. the agreement reached last night is worthy of the situation we were in. it is the beginning of a new chapter in the history of europe. we owe this agreement first of all to france and to the fantastic combativeness of president sarkozy. the only battles you don't fight are the ones you're sure to lose. he convinced his colleagues in the other member states and put the banks on their toes. greece would not be in this situation if the banks had done their job properly, which is to ensure that greece is able to pay back its debts. they took risks, and they are finally taking them today by giving up 50% of their greek debts. this crisis shows that we need more europe, at least for the euro area, and i hope that we will move towards economic federalism by creating a genuine economic government of the euro area. finally, it is essential to harmonize our budgetary and fiscal policies and to make the golden rule an obligation for all member states.
in writing. the european ombudsman plays a central role in the european institutional game. elected by the european parliament, it is responsible for examining complaints from citizens, businesses and associations against the european institutions. i was convinced that the ombudsman contributes to greater democratic transparency and therefore voted in favour of the iotova report. most of the complaints relate to the lack of transparency in the union's administration. the ombudsman made recommendations, endorsed by the european parliament, to deal with complaints in a shorter time (more coordination with the european institutions, simplification of the procedure, etc.).
in writing. in the face of growing criticism that europe is distant from its citizens and that it is not transparent in its handling of affairs, i voted in favour of this text which encourages the ombudsman to increase access to documents of the european institutions. the ombudsman, by offering every citizen free and transparent access to the documents of the european institutions, is a key element of european democracy. as a real link between citizens and institutions, its action helps to strengthen the openness and transparency of the european union. in this area, there is still much to be done, as the resolution stresses, but above all as the number of complaints registered by the ombudsman attests. the european union is moving forward on the path of transparency, and the institutions and the ombudsman must continue to work to make the european union a genuine modern democracy.
in writing. the presence of a mediator is essential for any democratic and effective relationship between administrations and the administrate. according to the ombudsman's 2010 annual report, 2667 complaints were lodged in 2010 by citizens, non-governmental organisations, associations and public authorities. it is very encouraging to note that the mediator has succeeded in helping the complainant in 70% of cases, in most cases seeking to find an amicable solution. i am also pleased to note that almost 58% of complaints were lodged via the internet. the online forms make this right more accessible to citizens and i hope they will help to facilitate and speed up the procedures. the report by iliana malinova iotova, which i support, highlights these developments, while proposing concrete measures to improve the ombudsman's work: continuing the dialogue with complainants and stakeholders, improving transparency by promoting full access to documents, increasing the dialogue between the european ombudsman and national ombudsmen, and disseminating best practice. these advances are necessary and i welcome their inclusion in the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which presents and assesses the annual report of the european ombudsman. the existence of a link between citizens and the european institutions allows the former to highlight shortcomings and instances of maladministration. so it's a useful asset in trying to strengthen the link between citizens and institutions and promote democracy. this annual report, which is provided for in the texts, is proof of the importance attached by the european parliament to questions of citizenship and good administration. the european parliament's role is to evaluate the work, suggest possible improvements and indicate new objectives. among the objectives to be achieved, this report mentions two that i find interesting: improving citizens' access to documents so that they can better understand the work of their elected representatives, and developing a document on public services to establish a culture of public service within the european union. it remains to be seen what practical action will be taken on this report. i am more skeptical, however, on this point.
in writing. deeply committed to respect for fundamental rights and to the fight against sexual abuse of children, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs roberta angelilli. the report introduces measures to prevent such abuses, prosecute offenders and protect victims.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on sexual exploitation and abuse of children and child pornography. this report is a real step forward in the fight against child pornography. it provides for the possibility for employers, when recruiting a person for activities involving contact with children, to request information on the person about the existence of convictions for sexual abuse of children.
in writing. the internet is a powerful tool for information, communication and exchange. but unfortunately the internet has also become a tool for the dissemination of child pornography material, because of its anonymity, speed, availability and low prices for access. child pornography is the fastest growing online criminal activity, generating up to $20 billion, according to a un study. it is therefore urgent that more effective action be taken against the perpetrators of such abuses and those who spread them. this type of crime takes full advantage of the 'no-boundary' nature of the new means of dissemination via the internet, which facilitates the creation of highly organised criminal groups. it is therefore at european level that we must react. the member states must now remove from the source or, if this is not technically possible, block internet pages containing or disseminating child pornography. to this end, states may take legislative, judicial or other measures. the european union will also need to cooperate more closely with third countries to obtain such deletions when the offending sites are hosted outside the eu.
in writing. i supported the report on combating exploitation, child pornography and sexual abuse of children. it is the second european criminal law legislation to harmonise penalties and prison sentences for these crimes. after lengthy debate, the final text restores the principle of removing child pornography images and data from the internet, a much more effective method than simply blocking offending sites, as previously envisaged. the union has a real judicial and criminal arsenal to combat this crime and its recurrence.
in writing. the massive development of digital communication has unfortunately allowed sex offenders to exchange criminal images and videos more quickly and anonymously. at present, it is estimated that between 10 and 20% of children are at risk of sexual assault, either within their family or in meetings with strangers. the deepening of the internal market and the free movement of persons and goods require coordinated action by the european union. i fully support the proposals in the roberta angelilli report, namely: the establishment of a minimum system of protection for minors in all member states, the cross-border exchange of information on persons convicted of sexual offences, the strengthening of penalties, the creation of support structures for victims. we are facing a threat of a vast scale, and we had to act. i welcome the adoption of the report by mrs roberta angelilli.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report, whose guidelines on combating sexual abuse of children i quite broadly share. but the text put to the vote this morning, the product of a compromise with the council, is not as satisfactory as parliament's initial position in terms of definitions of crimes, preventive measures and safeguards for the protection of freedoms on the internet. but one provision is particularly worrying: the possibility for member states to block websites and censor images or sites. in the very sensitive context of attempts by some member states to control the internet, this provision sets a dangerous precedent which i cannot vote for, given the risks of extension and generalization it may entail.
in writing. the definition of common criteria for the identification of persons in need of international protection is part of the establishment of a european asylum policy by 2012. in order to clarify these eligibility criteria and the content of the protection granted, i voted in favour of the lambert report.
in writing. this directive on the conditions for third-country nationals to be granted international protection is a further aggravation of immigration policy in europe. cases that may give rise to such protection are increasing, including cases of alleged persecution based on 'gender' or sexual orientation. mr sarkozy proposed a few years ago that all battered women in the world should seek refuge in france. he dreamed it, europe does it! and that's a lot of people, given the way women are treated in most countries that have based their laws on sharia. the text also broadens the definition of the family that can claim to join the applicant for international protection, such as the rights to social, housing, work, etc. to which these persons may claim. in short, a wonderful invitation to use the asylum application as a means of immigration to europe! i'm not saying all applications will be accepted. on the other hand, the influx of unfounded or opportunistic requests will have the immediate effect of drowning out genuine requests for asylum from political persecution and delaying their completion. and the unsuccessful applicants, rest assured, will be staying here illegally!
in writing. this report expands on some of the commission's proposed developments concerning the conditions under which a victim may benefit from international protection within the european union. i'm glad you did. the report nevertheless reintroduces an unacceptable discrimination between refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in the area of social assistance and the granting of residence permits. i'll abstain, in respect of the advances, but denounce these retreats.
in writing. the european union, both the cradle of human rights and the land of asylum, had to put in place a coordinated policy for the reception of third-country nationals and stateless persons. the revision of directive 2004/83/ec on minimum standards on the conditions for third-country nationals or stateless persons to be granted international protection was therefore necessary. the report by jean lambert, which i welcome, states that a compromise was reached after lengthy negotiations between the institutions. it contains decisive progress on the grounds for which a person is eligible for refugee status or subsidiary protection and on the content of such protection in the territory of the member state responsible in terms of residence permits, employment and access to social security. in this regard, i am particularly in favour of including gender identity and customary and legal traditions as eligible grounds for persecution. i therefore welcome the vote on this first text adopted under the asylum package.
in writing. only the gue/ngl group had the democratic conscience to ask that at least the court of justice of the european union rule on the compatibility of the eu-australia pnr agreement with the rules in force in europe on the protection of personal data. if the court were to give a favourable opinion on this agreement, we would know how much our fundamental freedoms in the european union have been reduced. i am voting for this salutary report.
in writing. despite improvements and lengthy negotiations, this agreement is still too unsatisfactory. the criteria for data protection are not all met, and there are legitimate concerns. the european commission has not demonstrated the need to collect masses of data, it has not requested the opinion of the fundamental rights agency on this agreement. i also regret that the legal basis is not data protection, which is the subject of the agreement. for these reasons i voted against the motion in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which incorporates a number of the priorities which the social democrats have consistently defended in the course of the negotiations. there are still concerns about the legal basis chosen (article 16 of the feu treaty on data protection should have been given priority over that on police cooperation) and about the storage period (5 and a half years, which is still excessive as there is no justification for the proportionality and necessity of long-term data storage). but the terms of this agreement are really a step in the right direction to prevent any misuse of european citizens' pnr data. such data may be used only for the purpose of combating terrorism and serious international crime. there is a right of access, rectification and erasure, and the possibility of bringing an administrative or judicial action. in short, this agreement contains a number of guarantees to ensure a good level of protection for european citizens and i hope that it can serve as a model for the future negotiations on the agreement with the united states, the known terms of which are still very much in doubt.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendation on the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data from the european union by air carriers to australian customs. the pnr data collected by air carriers shall include, in particular, the name, address, passport number and credit card details of the passenger concerned. this new agreement will bring the transfer of this data to the australian customs service in line with european data protection rules. the main points of the agreement include the restriction of the use of eu pnr data for the sole purpose of preventing terrorism and crime.
in writing. only api data of citizens should be able to be transmitted to foreign authorities. such a transfer should only be managed by european authorities. the agreement between the european union and australia which we are being asked to accept allows the australian authorities to receive and store not our api data but our pnr data, and this under conditions for which they and the airlines alone will be responsible. it also allows the australian authorities to transfer this data to law enforcement authorities in third countries. under the pretext of fighting terrorism, freedom of movement is being trampled underfoot for profiling purposes. i vote against and i denounce this agreement.
in writing. concerned about respect for fundamental freedoms, i voted in favour of a resolution condemning the abuses committed against the christian communities in egypt and the syrian population. this resolution shows the european parliament's support for the democratic wave sweeping the arab countries and condemns any use of force.
in writing. by vetoing the draft security council resolution condemning the syrian regime's abuses against its people, china and russia have shouldered a heavy moral and political responsibility. from a moral point of view, the russian and chinese governments are complicit in the massive repression which has left thousands dead and tens of thousands of people arbitrarily imprisoned over the past six months. from a political point of view, even as the arab league and neighbouring countries have called for an end to the violence, russia and china are clearly going against the legitimate demands of the peoples of the region for freedom, democracy and change. in the absence of a security council resolution, europe must take stronger sanctions against the regime of bashar al-assad and give its full support to the newly created syrian national council.
in writing. nearly nine months after the fall of hosni mubarak and as syrian president bashar al-assad clings to power through bloody repression, i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the killing of peaceful activists in egypt and syria and calls on the authorities of both countries to protect christian communities. in egypt, where the revolution had raised immense hopes for freedom, the repression of the copts has served as a reminder that the situation of minorities in the middle east remains extremely worrying. even more worrying is the situation in syria, where president bashar al-assad, in a murderous foray, continues to persecute protesters and eliminate opponents of the regime. here again, christians are threatened, and it is the responsibility of the syrian authorities to ensure their safety. but in the face of a regime that has lost its footing and is maintaining itself in power through arms, repression and torture, it is illusory to expect anything. bashar al assad must leave power as soon as possible in the interests of the syrian people and the stability of the entire region.
in writing. the violence in egypt and syria in recent months must not be ignored in the european union - especially those directly affecting freedom of thought and belief. these two countries have experienced major inter-confessional tensions, particularly with regard to christian communities, leading to murders and intolerable situations of exodus. the resolution adopted by the european parliament today calls for these acts to be condemned and the perpetrators identified and prosecuted. i hope we'll be heard. parliament also expressed its solidarity with the egyptian and syrian peoples and supported their democratic aspirations, stressing in particular, in the case of egypt, the importance of the new constitution. europe's support for these countries in this transitional period is essential, and i welcome this vote.
in writing. i abstained on this resolution which is alarmed at the situation of the 'christian communities'. on this issue, our gue/ngl group tabled a resolution with a very different message. i have no problem defending the right of coptic christians to practice their religion freely without being attacked and without risking imprisonment or worse, murder. but the defence of human rights cannot be satisfied with having two standards. murders and human rights violations are a daily occurrence in syria and the situation in egypt is far from stable. the european union does not have to defend this or that community. it must not discriminate but must instead defend without distinction freedom of thought, conscience, religion and, more broadly, public freedoms and democracy. it is this truly universal conception of human rights that i defend.
in writing. the orange revolution in ukraine was a historic turning point. the imprisonment of one of the key players in the revolution, former opposition leader yulia tymoshenko, is a setback in the democratic progress made since 2004 and a brake on ukraine's relations with europe. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution of parliament condemning this imprisonment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses concern and condemns the current developments in ukraine following the conviction of yulia tymoshenko, the main political opponent of ukrainian president yanukovych, a conviction which marks ukraine's departure from the fundamental european values and standards. ukraine is a young country, independent for only twenty years, which needs to make a profound reform of its legislation and administration, which are deeply marked by the soviet period. however, if the country today wants to move closer to the european union and conclude important agreements such as the association agreement, it must stop imprisoning former policy makers for no reason and must, more broadly, respect the fundamental european values of democracy, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights; the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child, and to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. the european union, in its commercial relations with third states, must not neglect the fundamental principles of respect for the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and human rights. these must be taken into account in particular in the negotiation of free trade agreements between the european union and third countries, such as those currently being negotiated with ukraine. however, recent events in that country, including the sentencing of yulia tymoshenko, are of great concern. i welcome the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament and am pleased that the text stresses the need to relaunch the dialogue with president yanukovych, to support the establishment of a balanced and transparent political debate, and to accelerate the ongoing reforms in the ukrainian state.
in writing. the recent conviction of ms tymoshenko and the continued detention of mr lutsenko despite all fair trial rules are contrary to the statements of the ukrainian authorities, who advocate their commitment to fundamental values and democracy. i supported this resolution in the plenary vote because it is necessary to send a strong signal to ukraine: it cannot insist on wanting to strengthen its ties with the european union and at the same time ignore the fundamental principles it defends. on 20 october, the european union and ukraine announced that they had concluded the technical negotiations on their association agreement and that they wished to formalise its signing by the end of the year. last week, in the committee on international trade, we refused to vote on this agreement, precisely in view of the recent developments in the field of human rights in ukraine. we call on ukraine to take responsibility and to engage in a transparent debate on the political decision-making process and respect for fundamental values such as democracy and media pluralism. the union is prepared to provide technical support, but the impetus must come from ukraine.
in writing. as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i supported a european parliament resolution which draws attention to a health reality: more than 25 000 deaths in the eu each year are linked to the growing resistance of bacteria! we therefore call on member states to introduce new antibiotics, improve vaccination coverage and use antibiotics prudently in livestock farming in order to limit antimicrobial resistance and thus the risk of animal-to-human disease transmission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on antibiotic resistance. the resolution calls for support for innovation to facilitate the introduction of new and more effective antibiotics on the market. it also calls for better vaccination coverage in both human and veterinary medicine. the resolution also calls for the use of antibiotics in livestock to be encouraged in order to reduce the risk of animal-to-human transmission.
in writing. ultra-resistant microbes kill about 25 000 people in the european union every year. to combat the growing resistance of these bacteria, stricter controls on the use of antimicrobials, such as antibiotics, are therefore needed. half of europeans mistakenly believe that antibiotics can treat viral illnesses or colds. the european union and the member states must therefore improve the quality of information and organise prevention campaigns. similarly, the risk of antibiotic resistance passing from animals to humans should be reduced by distinguishing, where possible, between the active substances used in veterinary medicine and those used in human medicine. finally, the use in agriculture of antibiotics as a last resort , intended to control problematic human pathogens, should be allowed only under authorisation, accompanied by surveillance for resistance, preferably on a case-by-case basis .
in writing. human antimicrobial resistance is constantly developing. this is due to the excessive and/or inappropriate absorption of antibiotics in medical treatments and the indirect absorption of such products through the ingestion of farmed animals. this antimicrobial resistance is a major challenge to our health, as these antibiotics are becoming less effective. the resolution calls for intensified research into new antimicrobial agents, the adoption of a legislative framework to combat antimicrobial resistance and massive prevention policies in all member states to raise awareness among european citizens of the rational and effective use of these agents. these are points i support. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text by the european parliament in strasbourg.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all i should like to welcome the fact that we are finally adopting a specific resolution on bahrain. since february, the wave of arab spring protests has been raging in bahrain. since then, repression has been rampant in all directions, as in syria and yemen. dozens of peaceful protesters were murdered, arrested, tortured. the repression has also affected doctors, health workers, who have, for no other reason than their crime, dared to help the victims of this brutal repression. human rights defenders, lawyers, trade unionists are constantly harassed. we are witnessing parodies of justice - in seven minutes, death sentences are being pronounced - and the least we can say is that the international community has not been very quick to react and that the condemnations of this repression have been at least weak. it must be said that the great saudi neighbor is watching. worse, he intervened militarily to aid the ruling government. thousands of saudi soldiers are still on bahraini soil. it is difficult not to notice how timid the resolution before us today is on this subject. not the slightest condemnation of this military presence. it is expressed as "deep concern". it's weak. the commission and the council are equally silent. how does mrs ashton intend to build her human rights strategy with double standards, even though she says she wants to 'base it on facts'? it is time to react, to act towards the bahraini people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the situation of mrs rafah nached is a symbol, a symbol, especially for her european friends, of the repression in syria. she was arrested at the airport on her way to paris to attend the birth of her daughter. she is 66 years old and very ill, and her health is deteriorating. so yes, we must do everything to obtain the release of this woman who has always worked for dialogue between all syrians. yes, mrs. nached is a symbol! the symbol of the terrible repression that is being inflicted in syria on all these peaceful protesters who are all completely innocent. thousands of people were imprisoned, hundreds were murdered, partly because they dared to photograph the repression. these photos that inform us, they pay with their lives. the european union's voice is not strong enough in this respect. the sanctions announced are insufficient and insufficiently implemented. only pressure on the syrian bourgeoisie can bring down bashar al-assad. what is the european union waiting for to implement effective sanctions?
in writing. ms. rafah nashed, a psychoanalyst, was arrested on 10 september last in the middle of the night at the airport in damascus. she wanted to go to france for family reasons, a country where she had done part of her studies. france is also a country where she has many colleagues and friends. she has strong professional and friendship ties there. that is why his arrest has caused great emotion and protest in france and europe. ms rafah nashed has been working for many years in syria, where her professionalism and humanity are highly appreciated. mrs. rafah nashed is also very attached to her country, which her fame honors. her frail health and detention put her in danger of death. like thousands of syrians, mrs. rafah nashed is a victim of a blind and violent regime. no charges were brought by the syrian authorities against this woman, who knew that the government was using repression for a very simple reason: because it is afraid of its people. commissioner, we expect europe to demand the release of mrs rafah nashed.
in writing. this emergency resolution is indispensable and we must adopt it with the largest possible majority. dr. rafah nached, who has been arbitrarily detained by the syrian authorities since 10 september 2011, has been in serious deterioration of health and must be released and treated as soon as possible. despite bashar al-assad's many statements in favour of reform, many journalists, medical staff, human rights defenders and ordinary citizens remain arbitrarily detained in syria, in violation of human rights and all rules relating to impartial and fair trial. at the last session we adopted a resolution calling for the departure of bashar al-assad, an end to the violence and a return to the rule of law. we remain on this position and will continue to monitor the situation in syria with the greatest attention.
madam president, the results of the railway packages are overwhelming. the rapporteur himself admits that freight transport is declining, while road transport, which emits millions of tonnes of co2, has increased. infrastructure is failing for lack of funding. in an absurd competition with the airplane, high speed is favoured at the expense of local cadence and the regional network effect. the opening up of the market means that there are fewer and fewer services for users. despite very timid statements of principle on employment conditions, we are being asked again and again to go further in the disintegration of railway undertakings. this is counterproductive and very dangerous for railway safety. this is the end, in the name of liberal dogma, of decades of technical culture and cheminoth. on the contrary, we need to rebuild integrated national public railway undertakings, from infrastructure to equipment design, passenger and freight to research and development. then, from there, we can build a european public railway hub in the form of an economic interest grouping. the financing of major railway infrastructure could be provided by the european investment bank. the aim of railway europe must not be just a centre of financial profit for a few groups, it must be to meet the mobility needs of europe's citizens and the need to transport safe and environmentally friendly materials: goods.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs serracchiani. i am pleased to see that the vote has brought a number of advances in the powers of national regulators, in their networking at european level, in better guarantees for planning and pricing infrastructure, in opening up essential facilities to competition and in internalising certain costs such as noise. nevertheless, a number of fundamental points still need to be addressed: the complete decoupling of the infrastructure manager from transport managers, the opening up to competition at regional and national level, the establishment of interoperability, the harmonization of rail transport by means of the strengthening of the european railway agency, the social harmonization of the status of railway workers from the top. we are absolutely expecting the commission to put these issues on the agenda in 2012, as it has promised to do. the promotion of rail transport and its competitiveness absolutely require these necessary reforms, which are in no way ensured by the modest reform of this first railway package.
in writing. ten years after the first railway package, the balance sheet of the single railway market looks very weak: while the share of rail freight continues to fall, it still seems very difficult to take a train from one member state to another. if we want the railways to respond to the economic and environmental challenges of the single market, it is imperative that we improve the current legislation, which has left too much room for manoeuvre in a market which is struggling to break down. as the commission prepares to open up domestic passenger transport to competition, the rules cannot continue to differ so widely from one member state to another, otherwise they will only increase the distortions of competition which already penalise passengers and certain railway undertakings. the new directive will help to combat such obstacles to competition by strengthening the powers of national regulators, transparency of tariffs and the independence of infrastructure managers. i therefore call on those who want to organise free and undistorted competition between railway operators and propose alternative and more affordable rail transport offers to our fellow citizens to adopt the reform of the railway package as of tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, professional mobility and growth, professional mobility and the competitiveness of our european union - these are the terms in which the subject of the day is posed. we in the epp group have supported the report by our colleague mrs mcclarkin, a report to which we have contributed greatly, and we naturally support the main recommendations in that report for greater professional mobility, greater simplification and efficiency in the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, while ensuring the safety of patients and consumers. but it is in terms of the path to growth that the challenge of increasing occupational mobility arises. the single market forum held in krakow at the beginning of october was right on this point. it recalled that member states must recognise the potential of the internal market to boost growth and job creation and must act to remove all obstacles to the completion of the internal market. the european council of 23 october also identified as one of the key priorities for achieving 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' the implementation of the 12 priority proposals of the single market act, the 12 proposals made by the commission for the recognition of professional qualifications. we are well aware that it is by increasing professional mobility that we can hope to unlock the growth potential of the internal market, our internal market of 500 million inhabitants, of 500 million consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not only a matter of social policy, but also of social policy. that is why we have, in particular - and i want to emphasize a practical recommendation - given our support to the epp group in the setting up of a voluntary professional card.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and growth in europe and is an integral part of the 2020 strategy and the single market act. it refers to one of the fundamental rights of the union: freedom of movement and of establishment. however, it remains limited because we still lack simple and clear rules for the recognition of professional qualifications. the successive refinements of the legislation do not hide the anachronism of certain provisions dating from a time when crossborder mobility was still anecdotal. but today 50% of young europeans are ready to go to work in another member state and this is the challenge that the new directive will have to meet. the job is huge. the lack of minimum harmonisation of training, the high number of regulated professions and the complexity of the recognition process create legal uncertainty, accounting for 16% of complaints to the solvit network. the main objective is to simplify procedures for citizens, ensure transparency of decisions and reduce delays through better cooperation between competent authorities and between member states. the classification of economic activities also needs to be revised as occupations and the training requirements related to them are constantly changing. i welcome the attention paid in the report to the specificities of the medical professions, naturally because of the implications for patient safety. finally, i can only support the creation of a voluntary european professional card system. such a card should, in particular, facilitate procedures and ensure the safety of customers and patients. beyond that, the map will contribute to european identity and show that the single market is not just the mobility of goods and people, but that it can and must be the basis of shared economic and citizen wealth. i therefore congratulate mrs mcclarkin on this good report, which i hope will be widely adopted tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the situation of the seafrance company, which mr barnier is probably very familiar with. it is a matter of suffering for us. 880 jobs are now threatened, 220 fixed-term jobs are to be added to the 880. the european commission has rejected the plan proposed by the french government for a loan of 100 million from sncf for the recapitalisation of seafrance. today, the ministry of economy announced that france would appeal the recent decision of the european commission to the general court of the european union. in my question i was simply asking the european commission whether it would be willing to change its policy to relax its aid rules to defend such an economically important company.
mr president, the report on a new strategy for consumer policy, which we will be voting on tomorrow, sets out the very specific milestones that we want to see adopted by the european commission when it proposes its new consumer protection agenda early next year. empower consumers, better inform them, ensure the safety of the products they have access to, implement existing eu legislation quickly, ensure that all actors are aware of their rights and obligations. these are the priorities for national and european legislators, for national and european decision-makers, but also for companies, professional organisations and consumer associations. above all, i think that at this stage it is appropriate to start thinking seriously and in depth about finding the right balance between the amount of information, the intensity of information that consumers really need, the use they can make of it when they make purchases and the administrative and financial burdens that the publication of this information creates for our companies. the key word is therefore 'responsibility': responsibility for producers, entrepreneurs, companies, service providers, but also responsibility for consumers.
commissioner, i think that we have got here, as rapporteur for the ppe group, a very good text, which is a compromise text with a controlled system of opening up online games. 'controlled' means that regulation must be national and european cooperation. that is, not applying the principle of mutual recognition in a sector and in a market which is not a market like any other, that of online gambling, and at the same time respecting the principle of active subsidiarity, which means at the same time greater and stronger cooperation between national regulators. we recognize that a european approach is needed in a number of areas, including the fight against fraud, the protection of minors, the fight against illegal operators and the fight against addiction. finally, we should also work on the integrity of sport and thus ensure a fair distribution of the revenue generated. here i asked for and got the mention of a betting right which would be a kind of property right for the organizers of sporting events, to be claimed against the online betting operators. this right would guarantee financial revenues to sports providers and thus avoid the increased risks of corruption or fraud in the sports environment. this strategy is clearly in line with the social market economy that you are advocating, commissioner.
in writing. europe is experiencing the worst economic crisis since 1929. our countries are facing intense pressure from markets which doubt our ability to return to healthy growth and to reduce our deficits. so it is not a time to "spend more" but to "spend better". europe can no longer afford to waste taxpayers' money on unnecessary subsidies. it must be the engine of sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth. cohesion policy, which is still too little known, can be the lever for effective investment to embody european solidarity and visibly reflect the image of a europe that acts for the growth and development of its territories. i would like to make two points. simplification will be the key to the next programming. while ex ante and ex post conditions can ensure greater efficiency of the funds, they should in no case add administrative burdens to the beneficiaries. moreover, the eu 2020 strategy will only be effective if it has political support at all levels of governance and the support of citizens. i regret that culture, sport and industrial policy are unfortunately absent from the proposed thematic menu.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr daerden for his excellent cooperation throughout the committee's work. first, a little foreplay. i would remind the house that if we want to fight poverty, the employability angle will not work. in other words, today's work is no longer a real protection against poverty. there are millions of working poor. i would like to highlight three particular points which i believe are crucial to making progress towards the realistic poverty reduction targets in the eu 2020 strategy. firstly, the call for a legislative initiative on adequate minimum income systems equivalent to 60% of median income in each member state, in accordance with the resolution adopted by our parliament a year ago. i think that as the crisis has worsened, we have realised that this tool is indispensable for our poorest citizens. secondly, the call for a framework directive aimed at ensuring the quality and above all the accessibility of all social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy and water. thirdly, we are asking the member states to adopt the proposal for a transversal anti-discrimination directive as soon as possible, and i welcome the last two points which i consider to be fundamental. we call for the implementation of a genuine european strategy for the homeless, the commission and the member states can no longer remain deaf to the problem of poor housing in europe. so these problems must be solved today. i am also very pleased that we have reached a final agreement on the negotiations on food aid, but let us remember that we must now look beyond 2013, that is to say, in general, at a substantial reduction in the budget for cohesion policy for the fight against poverty and social inclusion. finally, i encourage the participation, through this report, of the whole of civil society in the establishment of the platform because we cannot speak for the poor but with them.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr frédéric daerden, who has done a remarkable job. commissioner, you fought and you got the objective of fighting poverty to be included in the europe 2020 strategy. we are now concerned that the programmes of austerity and austerity may be leading to the neglect of this vital objective. however, the conclusion of the agreement on the european programme of aid to the most deprived people leaves a bitter taste in my mouth because i fear that france and germany have signed off on its permanent abandonment beyond 2014. this is not in line with the europe 2020 strategy. we have a sovereign debt crisis and yet nothing should divert us from this strategy, because this is our road map, the one we have provided ourselves with. in the fight against poverty, we must, in this platform which you have initiated, work on more precise indicators because we still lack a precise intervention capacity with quantified objectives, which allows us to have interventions from the european social fund in particular quite in line with the reality of the evolution of poverty. and then we want this question of minimum income to be finally put clearly. we are asking the european commission to consult on a legal initiative to this end. commissioner, this is your responsibility. we also ask that the issue of access to social services of general interest be preserved. finally, we ask that the horizontal anti-discrimination directive be brought into force. it is also essential to make this platform for combating poverty and social exclusion a reality.
madam president, i would like to thank mr daerden for his report. the crisis is economic and financial, but it is above all a social crisis for our fellow citizens. to reduce the number of people in precarious situations by 20 million by 2020 requires strong measures involving the different levels of public authority. more than ever, we must deliver on the commitments made by the european union in 2010 during the european year against poverty and social exclusion and when the european platform against poverty and social exclusion was set up, to have a european framework for social and territorial cohesion. we must make european funds more sustainable and optimum, in particular the programme of aid to the most deprived, which is being maintained at the moment, improve social protection, support local or national initiatives which develop services for the reception of children, the elderly and dependent persons. poverty is a scourge that must be tackled on a horizontal basis and now is the time to act to help the poorest people to escape from their precarious situation. we must, as policy makers, at european, national and local level, take the necessary measures to ensure that they have access to housing, health care, justice, education and a first job with a minimum income, perhaps indexed to the poverty line of each member state, without discrimination. investing in promoting innovation and social experimentation and in poverty reduction will enable us to implement a strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the europe we want and need today is a europe of solidarity.
the rapporteur. the report we are voting on today is the culmination of a year's work and marks the first time that the european union has banned a financial product used to speculate on the debt of states. this report shows that when we have the political will to act together in this european parliament, we are able to make our voices heard, to negotiate and, ultimately, to bring the states to our position. we were in the european parliament - the commission did not support this idea of banning uncovered cdss, banning all forms of speculation on sovereign debt - the only ones to defend this and in the end, we won the battle. i would therefore naturally ask you to vote in favour of this text. i welcome this and i am very grateful to the negotiators of the european parliament, in particular markus ferber and robert goebbels, who have accompanied me in these negotiations. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the transport of passengers by sea is regulated by the athens convention of 1974. in 2002, a protocol was adopted to address some of the shortcomings of the convention, such as the liability of carriers in the event of negligence and compensation of passengers in the event of an accident. this protocol is part of the community's policy on maritime safety. because it offers more guarantees to passengers transported by sea, i have decided to vote for the simpson report.
in writing. since the barcelona process (1995), which became the union for the mediterranean (2008) under the french eu presidency, jordan and the eu have had economic, political, environmental and cultural relations, with the european neighbourhood policy complementing this union. the arab spring, supported by the european parliament, has shown the need to relaunch euromed and to pursue integration between the eu and the countries of the southern mediterranean. this is why i supported the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the eu and jordan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the sehnalova report on the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the eu and jordan. the agreement provides for the gradual opening up of the road and capacity markets on a level playing field. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan.
in writing. relations between the eu and georgia are part of the european neighbourhood policy. launched in 2004, the enp aims to reduce the gap between the new eu member states and their immediate neighbours, and to enhance the region's prosperity and stability. in supporting this motion for a resolution, i am committing myself not only to implementing one of the measures provided for in the enp, namely the implementation of the single market rules in georgia, but also the treaty of lisbon, which provides that the european parliament must give its consent to any international agreement concluded by member states.
in writing. i voted for the ulmer report on the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the eu and georgia. this agreement is part of the neighbourhood policy and the common airspace with neighbouring countries. the aim is to create a level playing field between all air carriers by allowing the gradual opening of the market through access to routes and capacity.
in writing. nuclear energy is an essential source of energy for some member states, including france, and helps to reduce their energy dependence. however, the fukushima disaster has shown that it is important that nuclear power is subject to strict controls. i therefore voted in favour of my colleague jan březina's report which supports research activities in the field of nuclear energy, such as the completion of the iter reactor and sustainable waste management, but also research in the field of safety.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the agenda of the european parliament. here again, it was mentioned during the vote on the extension of the euratom framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for diversification is all the greater because, while the cost of the iter project has increased exponentially since its launch in 2006, from eur 6 billion to eur 16 billion, i believe that the project must now continue with the resources at its disposal! if research - both fusion and fission - is a good thing (even if it must be diversified), i strongly regret the increase in appropriations (another €700 000 for 2012) and the financial tinkering planned, which would lead to emptying part of the european research budget to finance only iter. in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies! for these reasons i voted against the březina reports on the euratom research framework programme.
in writing. the březina report concerns the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for research and training activities in the nuclear field (fusion, fission and radiation protection). the main objective of this programme is to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research in these areas for a further two years, following on from the activities carried out in the 2007-2011 period. although i strongly advocate substantial financial support for research and development activities, nuclear energy actions deserve particular attention in terms of their purpose. the construction of new nuclear power stations must not be carried out in contravention of safety standards which are essential for our fellow citizens. research and development efforts must also be made in the field of renewable energies, which are factors in job creation and ensure a high degree of environmental protection. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. in the face of global warming and the prospect of an unprecedented peak in oil prices, nuclear power seems more than ever to be the energy of the future. wind and solar panels alone will not be enough to meet our growing electricity needs. nuclear energy will therefore have a major role to play, despite the recent statements by some parties. to oppose nuclear power outright in favour of so-called cleaner energy would, as the german case shows, be tantamount to favouring the use of coal as a source of electrical energy. where is the environmental gain? rather than contesting this energy developed at the very beginning of the eu, we should, as this report does, devote ourselves to proposing ways of better controlling the risks associated with the atom. and it is precisely because we expect nuclear power to tend towards zero risk that we must give time and resources to research to satisfy this ambition. i am thinking in particular of iter, which aims to produce clean nuclear energy four times more efficiently in the long term, and yet is constantly criticized and endangered by environmentalists, who systematically oppose the vote on the european funds needed for this project.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, insolvency proceedings are more frequent. it is therefore important that they are well regulated. in his own-initiative report to the european commission, my colleague klaus heiner lehne favours the procedure for rescuing insolvent companies over liquidation. the latter must be the last resort. the report recommends that the procedures be harmonised so as not to penalise certain companies, particularly those with cross-border activities. i am in favour of convergence of the rules to which european companies are subject, and i therefore supported this report.
in writing. insolvency procedures vary widely between the 27 member states of the union. the aim of regulation at european level is therefore to avoid the incentive for parties to move their assets or to relocate legal proceedings from one state to another in order to obtain the most advantageous jurisdiction. in recent years, the phenomenon of company groups has become widespread. this means that several separate proceedings have been opened in different jurisdictions against each company in the bankrupt group, with the risk of splitting the group rather than restructuring it. the future regulation will therefore have to concern groups of companies and specify that the procedure must be initiated in the member state where the group's registered office is located. the interests of the workers must not be forgotten. the level of priority for claims of employees in relation to those of other creditors will therefore have to be increased.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this own-initiative report by our colleague mr lehne, which should make it possible to harmonise the insolvency procedures of european companies. the european union needs to support our companies in difficulty by simplifying the administrative burden and by strengthening communication between the various intra-community courts.
in writing. the eu faces two demographic challenges: an ageing population and a low birth rate. the slowdown in its population growth has a negative impact on the economy and increases the risks of dependence. these trends are particularly pronounced in regions where the exodus of young people to attractive urban centres is more marked. the eu must find ways to manage these developments in a sustainable way, notably through cohesion policy. i am committed to the principle of social cohesion at the heart of european regional policy and i voted in favour of kerstin wetphal's own-initiative report which proposes that demographic change should be one of the priorities of this policy.
in writing. the demographic change that the european union is currently experiencing is an undeniable fact, the ageing of the european population is progressing and european population growth remains the lowest in the world. the management of this development is a challenge of varying importance in our various territories, depending on their demographic dynamism and their attractiveness for migration. this own-initiative report makes a number of proposals to meet the different needs of our regions in terms of services, infrastructure and social policy in the context of demographic change. it is crucial to support the efforts already undertaken to ensure the universal, adequate and high-quality provision of basic services of general interest. the future cohesion policy will therefore have to play its key role through better coordination of the european structural funds. in order to address the negative impacts of demographic change, europe will need immigration of labour, especially highly skilled labour. member states must recognise that the integration of migrants is a policy measure of strategic importance which will have to be integrated into future cohesion policy. the ageing population and immigration highlighted by this quality ratio must become opportunities for the europe of tomorrow.
in writing. i voted for the westphal report on the impact of demographic change on future cohesion policy. the report considers that member states and regions should take demographic change more into account and recognise it as a horizontal priority in their operational programmes. it also stressed the role of the structural funds in preventing the departure and exclusion of older people and the importance of infrastructure in making regions attractive to families.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report calling for a better allocation of cohesion policy resources to give local authorities the means to combat the impact of europeans' ageing. tackling the exodus of young people from the least favoured regions and developing support infrastructures for older people has become essential to avoid the exclusion of these populations.
in writing. the problem is not whether and to what extent the european union's regional policy should take account of the extremely worrying demographic developments in the member states or in some of their regions, but how to remedy the impending demographic catastrophe. but nothing in this report really addresses the problem of the ageing of our continent and the demographic, economic and social decline of many regions, not just isolated rural areas. it is certainly not the policy of patronage and financial profiteering which you call 'cohesion policy' that is responsible for tackling these problems, which are the responsibility of voluntarist national policies for the reception of life. but it is not for the council to decide whether to encourage immigration from outside europe as a substitute for indigenous peoples. between the confusion and the immigration activism, the few common sense reflections in the report could not sway a necessarily negative vote.
in writing. by overwhelmingly adopting the report on demographic change and its impact on cohesion policy, parliament sent a clear signal to the european commission and the council of the european union on how cohesion policy should be approached in the future. the member states are increasingly mobilising the structural funds to combat the negative effects of demographic change (ageing of the population, rural exodus of young people, inadequate infrastructure, etc.), the impact of which on the economic and social development of the european union cannot be ignored. for the period 2007-2013, member states have allocated €30 billion to actions in this area. these efforts must be continued. that is why i think it is essential that the demographic dimension should be an integral part of european policies, particularly cohesion policy, and that it should also be taken into account in national strategies.
in writing. the demographic change in the european union is an undeniable fact. managing this change is one of the main challenges of tomorrow. this report has an important role to play in the well-being of our fellow citizens in europe. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. i would like to welcome the initiative taken by parliament to raise a fundamental issue for our future: demographic change. but i would like to emphasize that this is a subject which will have a considerable impact, both for regional policy, which is the subject of the report, but also for all european policies. that is the meaning of my vote in favour. the whole structure and architecture of public action will have to be rethought, from decision-making on the ground to the broad international guidelines. we will need all the good ideas to find practical and effective solutions to this problem which affects all our western societies. i therefore think it would be good to involve the consultative committees even more closely, particularly the european economic and social committee. this body, as provided for in the treaties, is made up of representatives of civil society. they are actors on the ground, whose experience may be useful to us in future discussions.
in writing. the european countries will experience a massive ageing of their populations in the coming years. this will of course affect our territories differently, depending on their demographic structure and their attractiveness in terms of migration. our regions must therefore, in accordance with their particularities, adopt proactive measures as soon as possible in order to turn this development into an opportunity. i welcome the report by kerstin westphal in this respect. making ageing a horizontal objective of cohesion policy, as proposed, will make it possible to finance projects which meet the needs of our regions in terms of services, infrastructure and social policy in a context of demographic change. better coordinated and targeted european funding programmes - erdf, esf and eafrd - can be decisive in helping regional and local authorities to guarantee continuous medical coverage, adequate urban planning, opportunities for intergenerational exchanges and a genuine policy for the integration of migrants. european cohesion policy can therefore play a key role in ensuring that our ageing population becomes an opportunity for everyone and everywhere in europe.
in writing. demographic change is one of the greatest challenges facing europe in the 21st century. the growing ageing of the population requires ambitious and courageous strategies. a low fertility rate of 1.5 children per woman, a steadily increasing life expectancy, a declining working-age population, and a whole generation of baby boomers retiring - these are all factors that require us to adjust our policies if we are to avoid burdening future generations with the debt of our present comfort. europe's role is not to impose a retirement age for everyone, nor to impose a contribution model. nevertheless, europe can help in coordinating policies, in setting up strategies for the employment of the elderly through the esf, or, through the feder investment, in structures for the care of the elderly and the rehabilitation of social housing for dependent persons. member states have earmarked almost €30 billion in their operational programmes for actions in this area for the period 2007-13. we need to scale up these initiatives to meet the challenge of demographic transition.
in writing. the financial crisis has highlighted many failures in the financial system, including short selling and credit default swaps , the famous cds . cdss are financial insurance to cover the risks taken by the buyer. these risks may be the bankruptcy of a company or a state. by fuelling speculation, cdss contributed to the bursting of the financial bubble in 2008, and led to the bankruptcy of the us bank lehman brothers. the cdss have not disappeared, however, and threaten the euro area in the event of a greek default. it is therefore imperative that financial markets be more regulated. i am in favour of a stricter framework for these csds and i voted in favour of the report by pascal canfin.
in writing. stop speculating on the sovereign debts of the member states! on tuesday 15 november, the european parliament adopted by a large majority the ban on naked cdss on sovereign debt. with the canfin report, parliament has thus put an end to the speculative games with sovereign debts, which have no place in a social market economy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. the ban was not easy to impose in the present context: by its success the european parliament shows that it intends to play its full part in bringing the crisis to an end. while the debt crisis is being resolved behind closed doors, parliament is playing its full role as co-legislator here: going further than the commission's proposal, parliament has succeeded, through long negotiations with the member states, in banning naked cdss on sovereign debts. this is good news both for the return of regulation in finance and for the european parliament.
in writing. let us stop speculating on the sovereign debts of the member states. the european parliament has adopted by a large majority the ban on naked cdss on sovereign debt and has thus put an end to speculation on sovereign debt, which has no place in a social market economy. as the contagion is now spreading to italy and spain, it is in the public interest of the european union to prohibit the sale of these speculative financial instruments. however, in the present context, this prohibition was not obvious. parliament thus shows that it intends to play its full role in helping to bring the crisis to an end. while the inadequate responses to the debt crisis are too often decided behind closed doors, parliament is fully fulfilling its role as co-legislator. going further than the commission's proposal, parliament succeeded, through long negotiations with the member states, in banning naked cdss on sovereign debts. this is good news, both for the return of regulation in finance and for european democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the canfin report, which seeks to better control and limit some of the most speculative financial practices, and to prohibit some of these practices for sovereign debts. but as with all other european texts on financial market regulation, i remain hungry. the european union is content with a minimum of measures, partial and circumstantial, whereas we should be tackling the root of the problem: the questioning of all the actions that have led us to this point. all of them: the abolition of controls on capital movements, the securitisation of debt, floating exchange rates, the prohibition of monetisation of public debts... this means that the general philosophy that has governed economic globalization for decades must be abandoned. there is no doubt that the financial sector is already preparing the instruments which will enable it to circumvent or distort these measures. and governments are still under the thumb of the markets and the rating agencies to be able to finance abysmal deficits that are partly self-fuelled by extravagant levels of interest charges. i feel like we're trying to put out a forest fire with water pistols. i'm willing to push the pump on mine. but it won't eliminate the arsonists.
in writing. the adoption of this report is a world first in the regulation of financial markets. the terrible pressure of the markets and the rating agencies on the states is politically unbearable and socially very violent for the europeans who suffer from repeated austerity plans. the ban on naked sales on cds is a real step forward: speculators will no longer be able to take out credit default swaps (financial products that insure against the default of the debtor) on government bonds without holding these bonds. in other words, there will be no more speculation and enrichment by betting on the collapse of an economy. this is a real step forward in the fight against the all-powerful financial capitalism. the aim remains to ban all short selling on financial markets in the same way. finance must remain at the service of the real economy and not the other way around.
in writing. i supported the report by pascal canfin which paves the way for agreement with the council on the adoption of the regulation on 'short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps'. this is the first time that the european union will legislate in this area to ban these complex and potentially perverse and destructive financial products which allow speculation in sovereign debts of states and cause volatility and overreaction in markets. this is a decisive new step that we meps are taking to better regulate european financial markets and break the vicious circle and the chain of events that led to the recent financial crisis.
in writing. i voted for the short selling report. the financial crisis has hit europe hard and weakened the economies of many countries. it's time to learn the lessons. the report aims to limit payment defaults to stabilise markets. the naked sale of credit default swaps (cds) is prohibited, which prevents speculation on a country's default. notifications and reporting are also increased, allowing for better monitoring of financial systems upstream and for anticipating potential problems. the powers of the european financial markets agency are strengthened so that it can fully fulfil its role as arbiter and monitor the markets. this report thus helps to prevent and prevent market volatility, the negative consequences of which on the economy are all too well known.
in writing. i supported the report on the short selling regulation and certain aspects of credit default swaps. this is one of the key regulations to combat the financial crisis. in particular, we have won the ban on naked short selling on sovereign cdss. it was necessary to limit the current possibilities for speculation on the debt crisis of a country! it is perfectly shameful to allow speculation on the failure and failure of others... the entry into force of the text will enshrine the prohibition in principle of such sales, if the buyer is not exposed to the sovereign debt concerned. the national market authorities will, however, have the possibility to temporarily suspend this prohibition in the event of a real dysfunction in the sovereign debt market. we should also welcome the progress made in the field of notification: this should enable the regulatory and supervisory authorities to carry out their tasks better, by ensuring better preventive work and closer monitoring. lack of information was a major problem faced by supervisory authorities before the crisis, and it was time to learn from this.
in writing. the ep has passed a law that limits sovereign debt speculation by banning cdss (credit default swaps). this debt insurance can be held by a speculator even if he does not hold any debt. in practice, this means insuring your neighbour's house and then reselling the insurance when the fire risks are greater. the cds has led to rampant speculation with speculators buying these insurance policies en masse to increase the perception of a risk of collapse of the country and artificially raising the price of these insurance policies to sell them at high prices to the debt holders. it's an aberration, you know. the ban on debt insurance if the buyer does not hold bonds of the country concerned is a positive step. this measure will certainly not be enough to stem the crisis, but it has the merit of demonstrating to all those who still doubted that the financial crisis is not the result of fate but the result of political choices. choices that can be reversed. the desire to control the markets and regulate speculators is not a utopia, as is shown by the evidence.
in writing. i have been keen to support this legislative resolution, which extends the process of financial regulation initiated by my political family in 2007. this text prohibits malicious financial actors from precipitating the default of eurozone states by banning naked credit default swaps (cds). these financial instruments, which were originally designed to provide insurance when buying a government bond, constituted a separate market. in other words, you could have the insurance of a house (the cds) without being the owner of the house (the bond of the state), so the interest for the insurance holder was to see the house burned to collect the premium. this unfortunate situation has led speculative funds to create a climate of panic around greece by buying cdss en masse, which have become increasingly lucrative as the worries spread. greece, in the grip of this excessive speculation, was then forced to borrow at exorbitant interest rates, thus accumulating ever more debt. it is to prevent other states from falling prey to such speculative folly that we now require that the holder of the cds be also the holder of the state bond.
in writing. the eu conducts statistical surveys in the fruit and wine sectors. these statistics make it possible, for example, to assess the production potential of certain fruit trees (apple, pear, etc.). the statistical system is, however, outdated. that is why i voted in favour of maria nedelcheva's report, which calls for a simplification of the legal framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which will provide reliable statistical data on european crops, so that decisions can be taken that respond to a real need of farmers. these measures will help to reduce the administrative burden for small farms and simplify data collection for other operators.
in writing. fruit and wine production is an essential area of agricultural activity in the european union. the aim of this proposal was to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops by replacing the two existing legal acts with one. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the agenda of the european parliament. here again, it was mentioned during the vote on the extension of the euratom framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for diversification is all the greater because, while the cost of the iter project has increased exponentially since its launch in 2006, from eur 6 billion to eur 16 billion, i believe that the project must now continue with the resources at its disposal! if research - both fusion and fission - is a good thing (even if it needs to be diversified), i deeply regret the increase in appropriations (another €700 000 for 2012) and the financial tinkering that is planned which would lead to emptying part of the european research budget to finance iter alone. in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies! for these reasons i voted against the březina reports on the euratom research framework programme.
in writing. following the fukushima disaster, europe should not curb its nuclear research, but on the contrary support it. it would be irresponsible to call into question the continuation of euratom's nuclear research activities. it is essential to continue nuclear research and development at european level, in particular to strengthen the safety of nuclear fission and to continue research on the iter project. in france, nuclear energy is a key element of our energy independence, since it provides 80% of our electricity consumption. the price of raw materials such as oil and gas is constantly rising and stocks will soon be on the verge of exhaustion. renewable energy has its place, but it cannot currently provide an adequate response to our energy needs. it is therefore essential that we study the nuclear energy of the future, so that we can continue to provide our children with safe, high-quality energy at stable prices! nuclear research and training are essential to foster european competitiveness and growth.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the agenda of the european parliament. here again, it was mentioned during the vote on the extension of the euratom framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for diversification is all the greater because, while the cost of the iter project has increased exponentially since its launch in 2006, from eur 6 billion to eur 16 billion, i believe that the project must now continue with the resources at its disposal! if research - both fusion and fission - is a good thing (even if it needs to be diversified), i deeply regret the increase in appropriations (another €700 000 for 2012) and the financial tinkering that is planned which would lead to emptying part of the european research budget to finance iter alone. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. for these reasons i voted against the březina reports on the euratom research framework programme.
in writing. the european parliament voted by a large majority on tuesday 15 november on the brezina reports to extend research and training activities under the european atomic energy community framework programme for the years 2012 and 2013. the main objective was to ensure the consistency of these activities and the continuity of the commitments made with the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 and the 7th framework programme for research and development. i share the emotion aroused by the nuclear explosion at the fukushima site and its disastrous consequences both in human and material terms. the french authorities have recognised the need to learn from this to ensure that this never happens on their own territory. but that's not the issue with these reports. research in the broad sense on nuclear fission is essential to deepen our knowledge in this field and the continuation of the iter programme must not be exploited by those who oppose nuclear energy as an energy resource. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has been able to identify the issues at stake and to mobilise to provide massive support for the continuation of nuclear research.
in writing. three reports by jan brezina were put to the vote today. they aim to extend the euratom framework programme for nuclear research and training activities to 2012 and 2013 in order to align it with the current financial perspective and the seventh framework programme, both of which will end in 2013. i supported these reports, which were followed up brilliantly by my colleague brezina.
in writing. respect for the freedom of movement for workers, which is necessary for the functioning of the internal market, leads to mutual recognition of professional qualifications. in 2005, the eu adopted a directive to this end. today, the question is to ensure its implementation within the union. to this end, member states must trust each other and promote the mobility of skilled workers, particularly young graduates. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs mcclarkin, which calls for simplification of recognition procedures.
in writing. it must be admitted that the recognition of vocational qualifications in the european union is still far from complete. many obstacles remain, as the 2005 directive did not address all the problems. it is therefore more than necessary to simplify and modernise the existing system. the member states must cooperate more closely with each other, as the recognition of professional qualifications is a matter of trust. it is obvious that greater mobility must not be at the expense of quality. that is why we must continue to reflect on the famous european professional card, which we have been talking about since 2005 but which is still provoking resistance. pilot projects have shown that it can be a useful tool for better recognition of qualifications. we therefore ask the commission to take this forward, by showing the added value of such a map and by providing the necessary guarantees, particularly in the area of data protection.
in writing. i voted for the mcclarkin report on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. the report focuses on four areas: simplification for citizens, updating existing data, progress in public health and safety, and the integration of professionals. i agree with the rapporteur on these points.
in writing. better recognition of professional qualifications will strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy, while stimulating growth and job creation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. but that doesn't mean we're going to abolish all the rules. the recognition of qualifications may, in some cases, differ from one state to another. there are still regulated professions: lawyers and doctors, for example, remain the domain of the member states, because of their highly sensitive nature. it is quite normal that in certain cases we may demand more, for the safety of consumers and patients. our long-term aim remains to move towards harmonisation in the more distant future, but things are not so simple: at the moment, this is not yet possible. finally, in order to move towards a more unified and better regulated european professional world, it is useful to consider the possible introduction of a voluntary european professional card. the latter would greatly facilitate the mobility of professionals, by granting them a genuine status.
in writing. the recognition of professional qualifications in europe is still subject to cumbersome and costly administrative procedures which discourage the mobility of professionals. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes ways of changing this situation, in particular by simplifying procedures based on information and by ensuring the transparency of decisions and reducing delays. it is also necessary to update the sometimes very dusty classification of economic activities and the minimum training requirements. as regards health professionals, i have been particularly attentive to supporting the establishment of a proactive alert system to alert other states to cases where a professional is sanctioned. in addition, on the question of the professional card, which the european socialists have been calling for for many years, we want to make it easier for professionals to do so, to improve the exchange of information between the authorities and to ensure the safety of customers and patients. i hope that these elements will be taken into account in the commission's future proposal for the revision of the 2005 directive.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the mcclarkin report which responds to the need to simplify and update the existing 15 directives on the recognition of professional qualifications. the modernisation of this legislation is one of the 50 proposals of the european commission in the single market act and one of the 12 growth levers identified by commissioner barnier. the report also introduces a proactive alert mechanism to ensure the provision of services by healthcare professionals and makes proposals to promote the integration of healthcare professionals.
in writing. i support mrs mcclarkin's report on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications (directive 2005/36/ec) adopted today in plenary, as it is an important contribution by the european parliament to the debate launched by the european commission following the publication of the green paper last june. recognition of professional qualifications is necessary to facilitate the mobility of workers within the internal market. the existing directive, adopted in 2005, needs to be modernised and improved, in particular in terms of simplification for citizens, ensuring the protection of public health and safety (health professions) and building trust in the system.
in writing. i wanted to support the report by our colleague mr mcclarkin on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, for which i was rapporteur for the epp group. the question of professional mobility is closely linked to the question of growth and competitiveness in our internal market. in this report we call for greater professional mobility and therefore for more simplification and efficiency in the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. we call in particular on the european commission, which will present its proposal for the revision of the 2005 directive in mid-december, to make progress on the introduction of a european professional card on the basis of the voluntary participation of the professional sectors concerned. this could be a further step towards a people's europe. we also want to introduce more trust and security into the recognition system by introducing practical tools for european citizens such as the proactive alert system which we wish to see introduced when a health professional is subject to a regulatory measure for his registration or his right to provide a service.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. the european union is based on a single market. this integrated single market can only function effectively if european workers are able to practise their profession freely in the member state of their choice. the knowledge and expertise acquired in one member state must be recognised in another european state. the issue of the recognition of professional qualifications is fundamental to the integration of our economies. this report will make it easier and shorter for doctors, midwives, dentists, pharmacists, architects and other professionals to work throughout the european union, without jeopardising the safety of citizens. intra-european mobility must be promoted in the interests of a dynamic and competitive european economy. too few europeans are still using this opportunity. the aim is to reduce the barriers to trade and to encourage these beneficial exchanges.
in writing. the completion of the internal market and the free movement of workers cannot be achieved without easy recognition of professional qualifications between member states - this is a priority of the single market act to promote economic growth within the union. but in order to be fair, effective and to protect european citizens, procedures must be simplified while maintaining a high level of quality. the report by emma mcclarkin meets these expectations and i welcome it. the commission's proposals are in line with the necessary objective of modernising the 2005 directive. efforts should therefore focus on intensifying exchanges between competent authorities, making useful information accessible via an online portal and one-stop shops, providing an electronic professional card for european workers and, last but not least, protecting patients through increased supervision of healthcare professionals. i now invite the european commission to take these measures into account in the proposal it will publish in december on the modernisation of the 2005 directive.
in writing. the union was built on economic cooperation, which must remain the driving force behind our integration. to overcome the crisis, we need all the skilled labour available throughout europe. i therefore support the application of the logic of the single market to skilled workers, to promote and encourage their mobility within the union. of course, each member state organises and offers its own training, but workers applying for mobility are faced with bureaucratic and time-consuming procedures, which are therefore dissuasive. simplified, common and transparent procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications are essential for the optimal functioning of our economies. these advances need to be confirmed, particularly with the internal market information system (imi) and the professional card. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. to maintain its economic leadership in the face of the emerging powers of the brics, the union must above all avoid brain drain and optimise the skills of its workers. i therefore naturally voted in favour of this report in order to promote the employment of highly qualified workers in europe and to establish the union as a global hub of innovation.
in writing. sensitive to the issue of consumer protection, i voted in favour of the triantaphyllides report. consumer protection requires an overall strategy that allows, on the one hand, to defend their interests and inform them of their rights, and, on the other hand, to empower them to encourage more sustainable consumption. from 2012, an agenda will identify all consumer initiatives and feed into the union's consumer policy. the european parliament calls on the european commission to pursue a more proactive policy with a view to establishing a more coherent legal framework.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will set new standards for the protection of european consumers by ensuring better implementation of existing legislation. by adopting this report, we are thus strengthening the fight against inequalities, in particular by encouraging sustainable consumption, combating misleading advertising and increasing the safety of our citizens in the face of the trade in dangerous products.
in writing. consumer protection is a major challenge area: not only to ensure food safety, health and product safety, but also to tackle the problem of reducing inequalities between consumers in europe or the establishment of a low-carbon economy. that is why i voted in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the rapporteur to return to a number of points which could not be adopted in the committee on the internal market because of the opposition of the ppe. in particular, the consumer protection programme should include measures to protect minors against misleading advertising. as a vulnerable group, children are a perfect target for advertisers, especially through television. finally, the legal vacuum in the field of collective redress should be filled by a commission proposal to enable consumers to have their rights better protected.
in writing. consumer protection is a major concern for the european parliament. it reflects his desire to put the citizen at the heart of his actions. in the run-up to the publication of the european commission's communication on the consumer agenda in early 2012, parliament set out its priorities for effective consumer protection, respect for consumer rights, product safety and better accessibility for the most vulnerable consumers. the report, which has been widely adopted by the european parliament, sets ambitious guidelines for the next consumer policy strategy. i therefore wanted to vote in favour of this report, which confirms my concern to improve the daily life and well-being of my fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr triantaphyllides' report on a new strategy for consumer policy as it aims to identify the european parliament's priorities for the european commission's preparation of the next 'consumer agenda' including the commission's future initiatives on consumer protection, which is due to be published next year. it seems to me particularly important to emphasise the logic of 'consumer empowerment', i.e. providing consumers with the means to make optimal decisions for themselves through an understanding of their preferences and knowledge of the instruments at their disposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by kyriakos triantaphyllides on a new strategy for consumer policy, for which i was rapporteur for the epp group. this report sets out clear milestones for the consumer agenda which the european commission will propose early next year. empowering consumers, informing them better, ensuring the safety of the products they have access to, implementing existing legislation swiftly and ensuring that all actors know their rights and obligations - these must be the priorities of european and national legislators and decision-makers, but also of businesses and consumer associations for the years to come. above all, i think it is appropriate to call for a real reflection to find the right balance between the degree of information that consumers really need, the use they make of it when they make purchases and the administrative and financial burdens that this creates for businesses. we must, through the policies we adopt, give consumers the keys to understanding the rules in place and to having their free will through clear and useful information, which is really assimilable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr triantaphyllides on the new strategy for consumer policy. this report, which i helped to draw up, sets out the specific points we want to see addressed by the commission when it proposes its 'consumer protection agenda' in early 2012. we want this agenda to be ambitious, coherent and concrete, placing consumers at the heart of a functioning single market. our parliament has stressed consumer safety, the importance of education and information - transparent, comparable - to be provided to consumers, and the means of redress to be made available to them. we also address several emerging challenges: the need to move towards sustainable consumption patterns, the need to meet the specific needs of older people in our ageing europe, the issue of social inclusion and vulnerable consumers, and the need to take account of new labelling requirements (fair trade, carbon footprint, etc.). finally, we call - once again - for greater consistency in european consumer protection policies and for a renewed reflection on the distribution of this portfolio within the commission.
in writing. consumer spending generates more than half of the gross domestic product of the european union (eu). in the current context of crisis, which undeniably has an impact on consumer behaviour, the development and adoption of this new strategy was a necessary step. that is why i voted in favour of this report in the plenary. among its main objectives, i particularly support the idea of basing all future actions on a comprehensive approach that puts consumers at the heart of the single market. because consumer confidence is a powerful economic driver, we must work to improve consumer information and to unify the legal framework for consumer protection at european level, while taking into account the needs and particularities of each consumer group, especially the most vulnerable (young people, the disabled).
in writing. the crisis we are currently experiencing is a crisis of confidence affecting our banks and our businesses, and seriously threatening the economic recovery. in this climate of mistrust, it is essential to support consumption by maintaining the relationship of trust between the buyer and the seller. in this way we will contribute to informed and regular consumption, which is essential for the eu's economic growth. the european union is clearly moving in this direction with this report, which i supported and which seeks to provide even more comprehensive information to consumers who are at the heart of the single market. citizens should be able to benefit from clear and accurate information on all products they buy, whether health, safety or sustainability. i believe that there is immense progress to be made in certain sectors, where tariff plans are deliberately made incomprehensible to the consumer, where switching suppliers is laborious and costly and where automatic renewal of expired contracts is commonplace. it is high time that the commission tackled these obstacles to competition and consumer choice.
in writing. the online gambling industry is attracting more and more internet users in europe and generating significant profits in the billions of euros. this enthusiasm for the sector, however, conceals irregularities which affect the european consumer in the first place. online gambling is not subject to the same rules in all member states. the sector is also threatened by illicit operators who undermine the internal market. that is why, in the interests of legal certainty and the protection of european consumers, particularly minors, i voted in favour of the creutzmann report, for which i was rapporteur for opinion in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in my report to the econ committee, which was subsequently incorporated into the final report, i emphasized in particular the protection of minors, the fight against illegal offers and the protection of the integrity of sport.
in writing. protecting the integrity of sport in europe is an increasingly complex task, particularly with the rise of the internet and new means of fraud. following up on the european commission's green paper on online gambling, we have adopted a report which is moving in the right direction. while recognizing the competence of the states in this area, we recall the added value that could be brought by coordination at european level. i welcome the fact that the report calls for a stronger fight against the black market and abuse, that it focuses on the protection of minors and vulnerable consumers, who are more exposed to gambling addiction, but also that it calls for the establishment of a blacklist of providers of illegal gambling and gambling. finally, the right to bet, which france was the first to introduce in its legislation, is recognised in this text: the idea is that the property rights of the organisers of sports competitions in their competitions should be recognised, so that a fair financial return can be obtained to continue protecting the integrity of sport and to strengthen the fight against fraud and match-fixing.
in writing. i did not vote for the creutzmann report on gambling. in its original version, it was not as clear as it is, and sometimes contradictory, on the respect of the exclusive competence of the member states to regulate gambling and chance, to maintain national monopolies, to decide on the allocation of tax revenues from betting, to enact the prohibitions they wish, to set the level of consumer protection. moreover, it was almost silent on horse betting, which is nevertheless used, particularly in france, to support the equine sector, while several paragraphs were devoted to sports betting and the rights of the organisers of sporting events on the events they manage. the equine sector, which is also threatened by brussels, which is attacking the legitimacy of the vat rate it benefits from, is of great economic and social importance in many rural areas. a little more attention to this activity and its specific challenges would have been welcome. the report as amended violates the principle of subsidiarity and does not even mention this sector.
in writing. online gambling is booming in europe and it does not stop at borders. there is also a vast unregulated black market on the internet. it would therefore be better to introduce a legal offer of gambling and gambling on the internet. a licensing model seems to be the best solution, provided that it is based on the principle of non-discriminatory competition. with this system, which has already been successfully introduced in some member states such as france and italy, the national regulatory authorities set the conditions for the issuing of licences. given the cross-border nature of such games, a coordinated approach at european level could prove very effective in combating illegal gambling and protecting children and vulnerable consumers. we need to move towards more regulation to combat the risks of addiction and to combat money laundering.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority of the creutzmann report which defends the principle of a controlled opening of the online gambling market. the report follows the publication of the european commission's green paper last march, which was a response to the increase in fraud in a growing market. the report succeeds in reconciling a coordinated approach at european level while emphasising the decision-making role of the member states by ensuring respect for the principle of subsidiarity. above all, it promotes the right to bet as a property right, the proceeds of which could be reallocated to finance betting on horse racing, equestrian sports and the horse economy. this support is essential for the safeguarding and sustainability of the equine sector, which also contributes to the vitality of rural areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr creutzmann's report on online gambling and gambling in the internal market because it stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation between member states in an essentially crossborder area, in particular in consumer protection and the fight against fraud and money laundering, while recognising that the decision to liberalise the market is a matter for the member states. the model put forward is that of a "controlled" opening according to a national licensing system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jürgen creutzmann on online gambling. in view of the growth of this sector and its cross-border nature, we call in this report for more cooperation between national regulatory authorities, under the coordination of the european commission, in order to develop common standards and take joint action against providers of online gambling and gambling services that engage in illegal practices. the report also calls for the introduction of a european system for the exchange of information on gambling. this controlled opening up must be done in particular by means of a model of licences allocated at national level. the report also stresses the need to ensure the integrity of sport to avoid fraud and rigged sports competitions that flourish due to the rise of online betting. finally, the report looks at the fair financial return to the sports sectors, recommending the introduction of a betting right, a kind of property right, which would allow the organisers of sporting events to assert their rights against online betting operators.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on online gambling. online gambling is growing in popularity and is worth €10 billion a year in europe. it is a matter of regulating this new economic sector to prevent fraud and illegal practices that can reach our citizens. it is also necessary to take into account vulnerable persons who can easily enter into harmful dependence on gambling and betting, especially as the internet facilitates their access. these areas remain national competence, with the member states being responsible for public order and health. however, given the transnational nature of the internet, it is also appropriate to strengthen cooperation between member states. the aim is to improve payment security, to combat illegal transactions and to think together about the problems of addiction.
in writing. today, 10% of all gambling in europe takes place online - on the internet, but also via mobile phones, or interactive tv platforms. in this context, national regulations are no longer sufficient to adequately protect consumers or to effectively prevent operators of illegal or fraudulent gambling. it is therefore necessary to increase cooperation between national regulatory authorities in this sector and to consider the establishment of common minimum european standards - while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i have of course supported the main points of this report. as regards the 'right to bet', i am pleased that parliament has supported the idea of recognising the property rights of organisers of sporting events at european level, and of establishing legally binding agreements between organisers of sporting events and operators. i was opposed to the idea of calling for a regulation of 'slip bets'. this type of betting is particularly dangerous for consumers, and i want the possibility of banning it altogether to be preserved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on online gambling in the internal market. since the internet is by its nature a cross-border medium, european legislation in this area is more than necessary. i therefore call for concerted action at the level of the 27 to combat illegal gambling, money laundering, addiction and fraud, particularly in sport. the report stresses that such regulation should, in particular, channel the natural propensity of the population to gamble by limiting advertising to what is strictly necessary to direct potential gamblers towards the legal offer. it should also require that any advertising for online gambling be accompanied by a message warning against excessive or pathological gambling. it will be up to each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to take the most appropriate measures in this fast-growing sector. this is also a concrete action at european level to better protect citizens.
in writing. with the exponential growth of the online gambling market in recent years, there are many dangers: addiction, especially among young people, cheating, crime, the power of money in the sports world and the protection of data. the internet is a game of borders and the principle of subsidiarity required rapid action by the union, in close coordination with the states. these are concerns that i share with my political family, to ensure legal certainty for consumers, the integrity of sport and the enjoyment of gambling. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes clear solutions such as the fight against illegal operators, the limitation of advertising and the fair redistribution of funds to the sports sectors. however, i regret that our request to mention the equine sectors separately in order to make their current funding sustainable was not accepted. it is a strategic area for my region, closely linked to its heritage and to our terroir. i will remain vigilant to ensure that the interests of equestrian activities are preserved. it is also about protecting our traditions and all the activities derived from the equestrian centres.
in writing. at this parliamentary session, an urgent appeal was made to stop the increasing bee mortality. bees are essential to the stability of our ecosystem. therefore, i voted in favour of the tabajdi report, which calls on the european union to act to protect them by increasing investment in research into new veterinary products for bees, by informing farmers about the use of pesticides, and by monitoring imports from third countries.
in writing. the increase in bee mortality is a serious matter. bees play a fundamental role in the balance of the environment and food production in europe. in fact, about three quarters of european food production depends on bee pollination. the beekeeping sector also provides income for 600 000 european citizens. the european union must therefore do more to protect this species, which is almost at risk. that is why we want to set up national surveillance systems and develop harmonised european standards to better collect data on bee health. member states should also share the results of their research in this field. but above all, farmers must be made aware of the use of pesticides that are good for the health of bees.
in writing. i have chosen to support this text because i believe it is essential to highlight the role bees play in our agriculture and our environment, and to support beekeepers who are currently facing difficult challenges. indeed, beekeeping plays a crucial role in our rural areas and provides an important service to the ecosystem through pollination which helps to maintain biodiversity. it is currently estimated that 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination, with an estimated economic value of €15 billion per year in the eu. in recent years, there has been a marked decline in their numbers. new diseases, parasitic mites, lack of pollen, and possible phytosanitary interactions threaten them, with serious consequences for the food chain. let's help our beekeepers protect their hives! to understand these phenomena better, we need better information with pan-european monitoring. we must also make it easier to develop new veterinary medicines specifically for them. i tabled amendments to emphasize these points and i am glad to see that we have been heard.
in writing. although the health of bees may seem to be an original concern, it actually has a significant impact on our environment, the preservation of the food chain and the economy. that is why i wanted to support this initiative, which makes it possible to raise awareness among european actors and citizens of a problem that is specific but has many consequences. it is estimated that 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination. the economic value of honey is estimated at 15 billion euros a year. the increase in bee mortality therefore poses a serious threat to the stability of the chain and to an entire economy that lives on the production of honey products. this is why the tabajdi report recommends a comprehensive analysis of the bee population, the beekeeping sector and colony losses in the eu. it also called for better consideration of this issue in agricultural and research policies and in veterinary legislation.
in writing. this is a very important report. we underestimate the role bees play in our agriculture and our environment. beekeeping, through pollination, helps to maintain biodiversity. i have supported this report in this light.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on bee health and the challenges facing the beekeeping sector, to combat the increasing bee mortality and to coordinate action to protect a species that will be rapidly threatened. the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture and, through pollination, provides important benefits for the environment, the economy and society, thus ensuring food security and the maintenance of biodiversity. it is estimated that 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination. however, there has been a decline in the number of bee colonies both in the european union and in other parts of the world. we therefore ask the european commission to take a series of measures in different areas such as research, veterinary products or the cap after 2013 to combat this phenomenon. this also requires addressing the lack of reliable and comparable data on the number of hives, beekeepers and colony losses in the eu.
in writing. bees provide a crucial and necessary step in the reproduction of plant species: pollination. by transferring pollen from one plant to another, they ensure the sustainability and biodiversity of our crops, and thus our food security. the overuse of pesticides, climate change, monoculture and parasitism have caused the colony collapse of bees. their disappearance is endangering our agriculture. it is the survival of the vast majority of plant species and our food production, but also the incomes of 600 000 people in europe, amateurs and professionals, that are at stake. moreover, because of the specific nature of this form of beekeeping, there is no training for beekeepers, no awareness-raising for farmers, and no specialized veterinary industry. today, the state of emergency is finally declared. it is important to protect this sector as soon as possible by encouraging the establishment of young beekeepers, supporting research by the pharmaceutical industry, establishing a permanent dialogue between the various actors and creating a harmonised european network of census. the preservation of biodiversity, the quality of our food and the survival of the bee industry will depend on our willingness to act.
in writing. public services are essential for european citizens because they meet basic needs. the european rules governing their financing are expiring, and it is time to reform them. the european parliament has therefore adopted recommendations for reform in an own-initiative report to the european commission. it is up to the european commission, acting as the competition authority, to reform these rules. as rapporteur on this matter for my political group, the epp, i welcome its adoption. we wanted to send a strong message to the european commission that public services should benefit from a clear and robust legal framework. it is important that public service providers, whether local authorities or private providers, are able to provide accessible and quality services while respecting the rules. we have therefore voted in favour of simpler and more transparent rules. we ask that the eligibility criteria for state aid be better adapted to local realities. we also confirmed our wish to take account of the specific nature of social services as recognised by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. it should be stressed that the european commission has taken a step in the right direction by recognising the specificity of the sgeis. i regret, however, the choice of legal basis: by choosing to base its proposal solely on article 106 (state aid) the commission chooses to ignore the novelties of the lisbon treaty and the possibility of fully involving the european parliament by using article 14. it's a shame, though. the simon report makes this clear and provides food for thought: yes, we need more clarification, yes, it seems quite appropriate and necessary to introduce some flexibility in the application of the state aid rules. in particular, compensation granted which does not affect trade between member states should be exempted from notification, and account should be taken of the exclusively local nature of certain public services. finally, we must not forget the objective of promoting high quality services that are accessible to all. i hope that the commission will take parliament's view into account when preparing the revision of the monti-kroes package.
in writing. i voted against the simon report. it is true that it is in the right direction, that of relaxing the rules restricting public support to services of general interest. but he's not starting from the right premises. the commission's idiotic distinction between services of general interest, social services of general interest and services of general economic interest is nothing but a ruse to deny the very principle of public service and the absolute right of the states, as recognised by the treaties, to define public services, to organise them and to decide on the way they are financed. it is also used in network activities to squeeze markets out of the private sector, to break up national monopolies and replace them with private oligopolies, to socialise losses and to leave the construction and maintenance of networks to the public authorities, and thus to the taxpayer. one of two things: either the service is a public service, whether economic or otherwise, or it is only a part of the normal commercial activity. in the first case, it does not have to be subject to the vague and fluctuating adjustments of the ultra-liberal policies of the european union, but it must be excluded from the scope of the competition rules and those governing public subsidies.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague peter simon because we certainly need more simplification, clarity and proportionality on state aid for public services of general interest. we must emphasise that the sgeis have a major role to play in the eu in helping to achieve the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion. in particular, i supported a reference that, without the presence of the state, these services would not be provided or not sufficiently provided. therefore, we emphasise the reference to article 14 and protocol 26 tfeu and the discretionary role of the member states in the financing, organisation and provision of sgeis. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. finally, we must call for universal access for sgeis and reiterate our call to the european commission for a proposal for a horizontal legal framework for sgeis by the end of 2011.
in writing. services of general economic interest (sgeis) contribute to social, economic and territorial cohesion, as well as making a significant contribution to the economic performance and competitiveness of the member states. preserving their specificity while ensuring a minimum of competition to ensure that they function optimally is an important issue for europe. this report follows the proposals made by the commission last september on the revision of the rules for financing sgeis. i voted for it. it emphasises in particular the specific nature of regional and local sgeis which, since they do not affect competition in the internal market, should be subject to a simplified procedure. the commission is also asked to adapt the rules - by simplifying them - for social services of general interest (ssigs), which do not have to be feared to affect trade between member states. it also supports the maintenance of the existing exemption from notification, without thresholds, for hospitals and social housing, and the commission's proposal to extend this exemption to other areas of the gss.
in writing. i supported this report in plenary because it sets clear guidelines for the future reform of state aid for services of general economic interest (sgeis), namely: transparency and simplification. transparency is needed: public funds must be allocated and managed according to rules that are known to all, so that all beneficiaries are treated equally. simplification is equally important: local authorities and local service providers need to be able to understand and implement them easily, which is not always the case today and can pose legal uncertainty issues. but i will be careful about one thing: this simplification cannot be at the expense of transparency. finally, i welcome the rapporteur's reminder to the commission that public services must be of high quality and accessible to all sections of the population.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution expressing the european parliament's orientations in the context of the revision of state aid applicable to sgeis that the commission proposed last october. this report largely echoes the proposals of the intergroup on social affairs, of which i am vice-chairman, and peter simon, the epp rapporteur on this text. although some of the wording in the report cannot be minor, the report is generally in the right direction as it supports the need to take better account of the specificities of public, economic or social services (pes). in addition to the demand for an increase in the thresholds for state aid and for an extension of the exempted sectors, i welcome in particular the reaffirmation of the principle of subsidiarity and the demand that the sigis not be regarded as benefits reserved for the disadvantaged or that account be taken of the specific nature of the intervention of local authorities and their grouping. i also welcome the ep's position that this reform of state aid is only part of the necessary clarification of the legal regime applicable to sgeis. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution so that the european parliament can exert pressure on the commission to force it to change its doctrinal positions.
in writing. in a crisis, the gap between rich and poor tends to widen. one in five europeans is now at risk of falling into poverty. europe has set itself the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 20 million as part of the europe 2020 strategy. to achieve this, a comprehensive approach involving all the actors concerned (ngos, social service providers, etc.) must be put in place. similarly, better use of eu funds will help achieve the europe 2020 strategy's goals for inclusive, smart and sustainable growth. i am committed to the principles of solidarity and social cohesion and have voted in favour of the daerden report.
in writing. as the crisis drags on, with the result that poverty and social insecurity are increasing, and as the necessary but insufficient austerity plans are being taken to their full extent by already vulnerable populations, there is an urgent need for the 116 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu. this report is not a legislative one, but it does have the merit of drawing up a fairly complete picture of the situation and of suggesting some ways of improving the situation by advocating a model of society based on 'social' values. developing relevant european action will require the development of national platforms for combating poverty, but also the full use of the possibilities available in the lisbon treaty, first and foremost the famous horizontal social clause. only by taking the social impacts of each european policy into account will we be able to achieve the famous social dimension of the eu, which seems so far away today! since the preservation of social rights in the union is fundamental, the specificity of social services of general interest must be recognised and the consideration of sectoral legislative initiatives to promote the quality and accessibility of these services must continue.
in writing. the scale of poverty in europe, which is estimated to affect some 116 million people, calls for strong action. i voted in favour of this report because it helps to promote the european values of justice and solidarity. the diversity of the poor population calls for a coordinated strategy to ensure the best possible protection for each of them (women, young people, working poor, etc.). to this end, the eu could play a pivotal role in raising awareness, coordinating and financing. i was particularly pleased to see in this report a paragraph supporting the maintenance of the budget of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) at at least an equivalent level for the coming years.
in writing. it is a great victory for us to have adopted this report which calls on the commission to work towards the introduction of binding legislation on an adequate minimum income, at the level of the poverty line, as a necessary tool to achieve the realistic objective of lifting 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. to combat poverty, it is not enough to talk about growth: with 8.4% of working poor in the eu, employment is no longer a protection against poverty. i welcome the fact that the environmentalists' proposal to tax high incomes has been approved. it is high time that heads of state and government understood that they are not here to serve the interests of the richest 1% but to defend the 99%! i welcome the central role of people living in poverty in the implementation of this platform. today we must make politics 'with' and not just 'for' the poorest. i regret that our request for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest has been rejected. universal access to public services is fundamental to protecting the poorest.
in writing. as usual, this parliament focuses on minorities, preferably those extra-european minorities already ultra-assisted. the presence of these groups imposes a huge social cost on the community, since the vast majority of their members are not working. they are given priority, in view of their family and social situations, in social housing at the expense of the modest european citizens. the continuous and massive arrival of newcomers - 200,000 a year in france alone - is automatically putting pressure on the rents of a shortage of housing stock. i would have preferred the report to have focused on the 42 million europeans who are considered poor, but also on the 116 million who are at risk of becoming so! these figures are staggering, and they are not just due to the crisis. the downward pressure on european incomes is old: competition from immigrant workers, competition from low-wage countries, ecb policies against hypothetical wage inflation, pension reforms... the general impoverishment of the retired, the low- and unskilled, the working class and, increasingly, the middle classes, is the direct consequence of your policies. but of course, that is not mentioned in this report. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the report on the european platform against poverty by frédéric daerden points to a sad paradox: while 116 million europeans are at risk of poverty and 42 million of them live in extreme material deprivation, the eu 2020 strategy sets the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty to only 20 million! any sign of weakness? the european union is not a political union. unfortunately, this is what one might think, given the "solution" found for the programme of assistance to the most deprived: it will be saved for 2012 and 2013... but subject to unacceptable counterparts, namely the definitive abolition of this programme and the abandonment of any social policy at european level from 2014. this proposal is a provocation at a time when citizens are being hit hard by the crisis and austerity plans. it may reinforce the feeling of economic, social and moral decline. that is why, in keeping with the idea of a progressive and united europe, the mobilization around this programme must not stop: i will, for my part, pay particular attention to it in the context of the negotiations on the financial perspectives after 2013.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden because it is absolutely necessary for the european union to mobilise and act to fight poverty and social exclusion. the figures speak for themselves and are unmistakable: about 115 million europeans are living in poverty. this report proposes concrete and multidimensional solutions to combat poverty, such as access to education and vocational training for all. but we must also ensure that budgetary austerity policies do not undermine social protection and employment. that is why i attach great importance to the necessary role of national and european budgets, including the esf and the eafrd. i also support the report's call for an evaluation mechanism involving the european parliament and based on specific indicators to ensure that member states monitor their fight against poverty, which is a prerequisite for our effective fight against social exclusion and poverty.
in writing. 116 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty and 42 million live in extreme material deprivation. the economic and financial crisis and the sharp rise in food prices have left 43 million people in food poverty. in the face of this situation, it is essential to strengthen the involvement of civil society in the development of a european strategy at all levels of governance. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. 42 million europeans live in extreme material deprivation without the means to support themselves to lead a decent life. in view of these figures - and the economic outlook for the coming months - the european platform against poverty and social exclusion is of paramount importance. the report by my colleague frédéric daerden contains several key ideas. the text calls for the commission/eurostat to have a comprehensive scoreboard on poverty and social exclusion and for the improvement and comparability of national poverty statistics. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) was adopted unanimously. it also called for respect for the fundamental principles of the ilo and the concept of decent work and quality jobs to be implemented in the area of job creation. it also recommends that appropriate taxation of very high wages be implemented to help finance social protection systems and minimum income. these are the right ideas, and i wanted to support them with this vote.
president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the past few weeks have again shown how much is at stake for the european union today. we must react quickly and decisively to events that affect every citizen and every household in europe. against this background, it is more essential than ever that our institutions strengthen our cooperation and show common resolve to deliver rapid and effective responses to the crisis. the basis for a successful response is to have a clear consensus about where europe is heading. i believe that the commission and this parliament share this consensus – this ambition for a european union that is stable and strong, that is open and really united. the commission work programme is a key building block to achieving this vision. it is therefore particularly important that it rests on a series of intensive exchanges between our two institutions. this intensive dialogue has been decisive in determining the focus of the programme for 2012. through the conference of committee chairs, the committee of presidents, and the structured dialogue between commissioners and committees – and i would also add, mr president, the political dialogue which we had with you when you were invited several times to the college of commissioners – through all these occasions we have been able to explore key measures across the full range of our work. the state of the union debate was at the core of this work. it set the tone. we were right to be ambitious for europe. our common messages were heard. many of them are indeed reflected in the recent european council conclusions, and they provide the backbone of the programme. the events of the last weeks only confirm that we are at a key moment in the history of our union. to secure the reforms that europe needs to transform itself, we have to win the confidence of our citizens and also of investors. we need a european renewal, and regaining confidence requires swift and decisive action. we are constantly being called upon to take swift decisions. last week we reshaped the commission’s rules to give a special role to the new task of vice-president for economic and monetary affairs. this was done as a matter of urgency to allow vice-president rehn to appear before this parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs on 23 november also as vice-president for the euro. for next week, we have accelerated the annual growth survey. we will also present new proposals on further deepening european union and euro area economic governance to provide further stability, discipline and convergence, and to complement the reforms agreed through the so-called ‘six-pack’. since we are going to have the opportunity tomorrow to discuss these matters in more detail, i will not go into this part now, but i know that we have the support of this parliament for such decisive action. the political consensus that we are shaping together to tackle the crisis is the springboard for this action. i can now say the same should be true for next year’s programme. by the end of 2012, we should see the ambitious measures we are putting forward today being passed into national law. we should see implementation starting to bite and have a real impact, and we will have further measures proposed by the commission. we know well what our common priorities are: we must achieve sustainable and job-creating growth; we must bring public finances back on track; we must restore confidence in our european union’s ability to get out of the economic crisis. over the next year, we can show that the european union has what we need to overcome the crisis and restore growth. it has the vision we need in the shape of our political consensus for action on this renewal. it should have the tools we need, with the transparent and democratic approach enshrined in the community method, and it has the collective determination we need to carry through ideas into action. our joint determination has also managed to move opposition in council to the programme of aid to the most deprived persons. following our insistence, council finally approved this scheme for the most deprived persons yesterday. the commission has already tabled a new proposal for after 2013. it is now up to this parliament and the council to decide on it. one thing should be clear: the commission does not give up on having this kind of programme after 2013. the commission has focused its work programme for 2012 on reinforcing stability and responsibility, while at the same time stimulating growth, doing everything we can to counter the very negative outlook we have today for the economic situation in europe. with the europe 2020 strategy we have the blueprint for achieving sustainable and job-creating growth. we now have to keep up the momentum and agree and implement changes that bring real benefit. we have to be coherent and consistent in implementation. we cannot just approve measures and then afterwards forget about their implementation. it is extremely important to follow on. europe 2020 can be the spark to a virtuous circle of growth, and i can count on your support to help give this process the political momentum it needs. the work of the european semester will be critical over the next year, to drill down action into member states and ensure that all parts of europe help each other to recover. part and parcel of this work is of course to ensure sound public finances. we cannot do this by turning our backs on ways to improve revenues. that is why we need to keep up the pressure for a financial transaction tax, and why we will be looking at new measures to tackle tax havens and counter vat fraud. we will also make a focused proposal on protecting the financial interests of the european union, including by criminal law. we will also press on with financial sector reform. key proposals will be on the table by the end of this year, including ones on bank resolution. next year we will press on with measures on investor protection, critical to deepening confidence in the sector. institutions for occupational retirement provision are also a sector to work on next year. the backbone of our strength, as we have said so often, is the single market. it has made us what we are today, the world’s largest economy. we need to further develop it and bring it into the 21st century so that it can continue to generate growth. twenty years on from its inception, we can show that the single market remains a key motor for sustainable growth in europe. this is why we have proposed fast-tracking the priority proposals set out in the single market act. we have accelerated our work on these proposals and we are asking the legislators to work to see these in law by the end of next year. there is a wide range of proposals now on the table. if we want to have a real impact on growth, and quickly, we need to adopt them and see them implemented. the european patent, roaming charges, the energy savings directive – these are all examples where early adoption would also show a european union determined to do everything possible to boost growth. the modern european economy also rests heavily on the digital single market. we will address the risks of electronic services being hampered by incompatible national copyright regimes, with a proposal on rules for the cross-border licensing of online music. a pan-european framework for electronic identification and signatures will give the confidence needed to boost electronic transactions across the european union. growth is also generated by consumers. their confidence is key to boosting demand. a comprehensive consumer agenda will provide a secure foundation for consumer transactions in the single market, while revised rules on general product safety will offer a clear framework both for consumers and manufacturers. the growth we need to achieve in the european union has to go hand in hand with the creation of sustainable jobs. we need to give a new momentum to flexicurity to drive a jobs-rich recovery, closely involving the social partners. more than ever, social dialogue is necessary both at european and at national level. we will help young people to move around europe with a youth on the move card. we also want to look again at the handling of supplementary pension rights of people who change jobs: this must not be allowed to remain an obstacle. i am also determined that we do not lose sight of our longer-term need to build an economic recovery that is sustainable. next year will be a key moment of transition to the revised emissions trading system. the rio+ summit will remind us of our global obligations for sustainability and green growth, looking in particular at a new water strategy. new proposals on emissions for passenger cars and vans will spur innovation and give manufacturers the necessary regulatory certainty. we will also draw the conclusions for legislation from the stress tests following the fukushima accident. i believe that next year we will see important initiatives in the field of green growth. i know that now, in the face of the difficult situation in economic and budgetary terms of many of our member states, speaking about this agenda is not so popular, but i believe that we need these kinds of initiatives more than ever and we are working precisely on linking some of our initiatives in terms of climate action and protection of the environment with the e-economy, the digital economy, so that we can indeed have important breakthroughs in terms of our action for green growth. providing security and justice in a borderless europe continues to be a big challenge. for an open europe to work, we need to make sure that its border regime is up-to-date. modernisation and the use of new technology will ensure that the system encourages cross-border activity while providing the necessary safeguards. i also believe this is a time of real opportunity for the european union on the global stage. this is key to recovery. we will be taking forward a wide range of bilateral trade negotiations, as well as continuing to make the case for a european approach in fora such the wto, the g20 and the g8. at the same time, we must continue to respond to the dramatic changes in the southern mediterranean. i believe we have a responsibility to do everything we can to help the post-transition societies there to develop successfully, and the commission is determined to support that process. i believe that longer-term stability and prosperity in our close neighbours is also – apart from our commitment to important values – in our very urgent interest. i know that we already have a wide agenda on the table. the measures on economic governance, on the single market, on financial services, not to mention the multi-annual financial framework, will make huge demands on us all over the coming year, and we know that we are also going to deal with these very important initiatives against a backdrop of economic financial instability, where the news coming from europe and also from other parts of the world is not always the best. that makes us need more than ever this spirit of responsibility and solidarity among the member states and among the european institutions. i believe that confidence comes through showing that the european union has the determination to act. i believe that in the past we have seen that, sometimes, it is under conditions of huge pressure and precisely when we are resisting or reacting to crises that the european union is able to show how important it is for the prosperity of our citizens. i hope the commission can count on your support in joining us in delivering concrete, ambitious action.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr barroso, you have presented a programme which, in my view, does not take into account the extreme gravity of the crisis, the loss of popular sovereignty we have seen in recent days and the rejection by the people of the european idea itself, because europe is not, in fact, solidarity-based, social or ecological. you talk incessantly about growth and employment, but all we see is the threat of recession and unemployment. the hyper-austerity and the destruction of social rights are leading us straight to bankruptcy. that is why, mr president, i suggest that you study and simply study another logic. if there is a need to amend the treaties, it is to change the tasks of the european central bank so that it can, by means of monetary creation, take over or guarantee the debts of the states and promote new credit that is conducive to economic and social recovery. in connection with a new fund for human, social and ecological development, fuelled by a tax on financial transactions, which you have just mentioned, the fight against tax evasion, which you have also mentioned, and in connection with the european central bank, it would be possible to relaunch public services of transport, education, housing, health and social security of work and training, the indispensable investments creating jobs in europe. these tools should encourage social progress everywhere with the establishment of a european minimum income and a minimum wage to put an end to the deadly competition between employees. there you have it, mr president, another consistency. i simply suggest that you study it.
mr president, commissioner, our colleague who has just spoken is right. we need networks, we need a model of economic development which, sector by sector, gives us back the future. take the case of youth employment. there is no possibility of believing in the future and trusting the policies when youth unemployment is above 15%, 20% and young people do not even have the right to a first job. i was disappointed by what mr barroso presented to us. i would have liked concrete answers, for example, priority access to public procurement by companies that enable young people to get their first job. i would also have liked the commission to present a differentiated development strategy. yes, we have regions in europe that are worse off than others. yes, we have pockets of poverty and, in connection with this, we have heard that a head of state is questioning the sustainability of the funding of the food aid programme for the most deprived. if there is no future for the young, if there are no solutions for the most deprived, if there is no development strategy, you have enough resources to do social impact studies, sector by sector, to determine where there can be job creation in business, in industry, in services. it is not enough to say or pretend that we can guarantee job security, we must ensure that young people and the unemployed have a path to skilled jobs that will enable them to find a solution, because without jobs there is no social dignity. what is the commission's position on the directive on the posting of workers, commissioner? we have been waiting for a long time for the disparity between our countries in human resources and salaried workers to be eliminated. i want and expect concrete answers from you and i conclude by saying that i regret that mr barroso has devoted only one hour to the programme of a year which is to ensure a lasting recovery and a final settlement of the sovereign debt of our member states.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, the durban conference is indeed an important conference in a very difficult context. the worsening climate situation is becoming increasingly evident and emissions have never been higher than last year. cancún was a relative success, but since then, nothing has happened. finally, thirdly, it is true that europe is currently in economic and financial difficulty and that what is at stake in durban is also its place in geopolitical and geostrategic terms. if we are to make progress in cancun, i believe we must first be extremely firm on our own realities. we have committed ourselves to a green background. it is absolutely essential that this green fund should make progress, so, of course, on legal questions, governance issues and everything else, but the main thing is to be able to find the means to finance this green fund. we have made little or no progress in this respect. we can talk about innovative financing to the point of thirst, but what is essential is what is this financing? a tax on financial transactions, a carbon tax, a tax on sea and air travel? it may be part of each, i do not know, but in any case, what is essential is to be concrete and to show the countries of the south that we are indeed, not in the virtual, but in reality. i would make exactly the same observation with regard to binding commitments. yes, we need a kyoto ii. yes, it is true that a kyoto ii that would be confined to europe would certainly be very good from an ethical and industrial point of view, because i share the view of our colleague florenz that we need to boost our industry in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency. but at the level of global efficiency, i'm not sure that would be enough. how can we then, by example and not just by word, convince the countries of the south - who are the first victims of climate change, because let us not forget that the first victims of climate change are the poorest countries and in the rich countries the poorest among us - that we must move forward?
madam president, i fear that durban will be the last chance meeting after the near-failures of copenhagen and cancun. how can we follow up the kyoto protocol when most of the signatories are now refusing to commit themselves beyond it? how can we make the people of europe understand that the fight against climate change remains a priority in the face of a particularly serious economic crisis? the european union, madam commissioner, and i welcome your commitment, your determination and your ambition - and we support you - the european union has indeed honoured all these commitments, including financial commitments to developing countries. but how can the european union have the capacity to negotiate with its partners to obtain a legally binding agreement? in fact, we have a very difficult time convincing people. the international negotiation process is a drunken ship, without a captain, without a home port. the united states refuses any binding agreement, refuses sanctions. when president obama was elected, we had some confidence, and then, unfortunately, the house of representatives is climate skeptical. so in this context, it's no longer "yes, we can", it's "no, we won't". and then china: we hear about china's investment in a green economy, but it's simply to invade the international market. meanwhile, china is building a coal-fired power plant every week. so let us be innovative, let us invest, otherwise i am very much afraid that the european citizens, bankrupt and frustrated, will prepare themselves without any illusions for this new deadline!
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, i would like to support the ambitious objectives of the resolution that will be voted on tomorrow, in particular the desire not to exceed the two degrees of increase in our climate, but also to allow a policy that ensures that these greenhouse gas emissions cannot exceed 20%. but your intention, mrs hedegaard, is to allow, on the occasion of durban, a willing attitude, as you have shown since you became european commissioner, to allow the continuation of the kyoto agreement despite the difficulties you mentioned yourself in your speech this afternoon. however, beyond this voluntarism, i would like to ask you a number of questions: how will you implement this negotiating strategy to enforce the various financial commitments made in copenhagen, 30 billion dollars from 2010 to 2012, but also in cancún, the 100 billion, the green fund you spoke of to help the developing countries? what governance do you intend to promote for the multilateral management of these funds in view of the multiplicity of beneficiaries and donors? finally, what do you intend to do to ensure that these committed funds do not come from the recycling of existing development aid?
mr president, my first words will be to join in the compliments that have been paid to the court of auditors, to president caldeira and to commissioner šemeta. i also regret the absence of the council, the second budgetary arm, and i agree with my colleagues that this is where we have the maximum error rate in shared management, and the council is not here to discuss this. i should like to remind you that we have refused to grant discharge to the council. it would be the last thing that this institution would be present. i would like to comment on the das, insurance declaration. it's the treaty. i would like to know, mr president, commissioner, whether we have a positive or negative sda? i would also like to congratulate mrs kaljulaid on the efforts she has made in presenting the das opinion. on the annual accounts, we have an unqualified certification opinion. i must say that i am not used to the fact that the 30 billion euros that the member states owe us for pensions are not accounted for in accordance with the accounting standards for the public sector. on the underlying transactions, we have two opinions and one finding. i therefore think that we should make some progress in order to get a general view of the accounts and the underlying transactions from parliament. finally, i think that the number of tests is very low: 238 in agriculture, 90 in external access. i think it should be analysed whether this number of tests is sufficient and i would like to reiterate the proposal that the european court of auditors should rely, as the treaty allows, on the national auditors to give an opinion on shared management.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really pleased that the court’s 2010 annual report confirms that our efforts bear results. i would like to stress that the report of the court of auditors means that 96.3 % of all spending of eu money is free of error. 96.3 % – so i think this is a significant achievement but of course we want to do better. our discussion today indicates that part of our efforts needs to be focused on those european programmes where management is shared with the member states, in particular in the area of cohesion. here i also would like to draw your attention to the fact that 2010 was the year when spending on cohesion reached its full speed. so all the programmes were triggered and yet, despite this fact, the level of error in 2010, although it increased in comparison to 2009 – to 7.7 % as some of you rightly pointed out – is nevertheless much lower than in 2008 or 2007. so i think this also demonstrates that the systems which were developed in this programming period are working. of course implementation of those systems requires more efforts at the level of the member states. some of you – or many of you – also discussed the issue of financial engineering instruments and we do, of course, take into account the risks related to these financial engineering instruments, but i think that it is also very important to take into account that these instruments are the source of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises which are so important in the situation of the crisis. the commission actually adopted a very exhaustive guidance note on the implementation of financial engineering instruments. we developed a new and very comprehensive audit methodology for financial engineering instruments and we also strongly advise audit authorities in the member states to produce thematic audits on the use of financial engineering instruments. all this demonstrates that we take this issue very seriously into account, but of course we will be ready during the discharge procedure to discuss this issue in more detail. the commission is undertaking follow-up, as we speak, to the issues identified in the 2009 discharge resolution and to the new findings disclosed in the 2010 court report. for the future, major proposals for the next multiannual financial framework have been tabled already, notably for cohesion and agriculture policies. you will find in these proposals how the commission has duly taken your recommendations into account. other proposals will follow until the end of this year and will include as well the necessary provisions to improve further the financial management of eu funds. i am looking forward to a constructive and fruitful debate with you and i would also like to assure you that the commission will provide you with all necessary support as it has done in the past.
president of the european court of auditors. − mr president, i would like first of all to thank you for all the kind words that you have been so gently addressing to the european court of auditors. on behalf of all those who work there, my deepest thanks. we are indeed committed to continue further cooperation with this house, with the relevant committee, the budgetary control committee, and with all the committees – covering agriculture, regional development, or any other area – which find that our work is of relevance for the discharge of their responsibilities. this annual report provides this chamber with more detailed information. we have provided you with quantifiable indicators that might prove confusing to a non-expert reader. but we explain clearly that this offers you a kind of thermometer whereby you can compare a series of areas which are most likely to affect, and have a financial impact on, the payments underlying the budget. we can see the evolution since 2006 and we will be able to see how the situation develops after 2010; that will be, one might say, the thermometer that we can use to see what the temperature is. but more importantly, i think, we have been able to indicate to you where the problems are and where the roots and the causes of those problems lie, so that you, as legislators, you as the discharge authority, the council and the commission, can take your own responsibilities to ensure that the rules are indeed implemented by all those responsible in the commission and in the member states. we cannot forget that the budget is implemented by the european commission, in cooperation with member states. so we need to fully implement current legal frameworks but we also say that we need to simplify. i believe that the future reforms to the next financial framework envisaged by the commission proposals offer a golden opportunity to redress the problems we face. i think there is a focus to be put on the results to be achieved in terms of the added value we want to get from funding from the european union budget. it must not be forgotten that we have to comply with rules, but we want more than that: we want the funds to be effectively used in the most economic way and in an efficient way. some of you have talked about the complexity and bureaucracy of the systems in place. the new financial period may eventually benefit from simple rules and more effective mechanisms, but minimising the costs of control cannot lead to there being no adequate accountability from those responsible either in member states or in the commission; the mechanisms must be sufficiently transparent. be sure that the european court of auditors is working according to the treaty provisions to issue its own opinions on the proposals that have been put forward by the commission to change the regulations in agriculture and in the structural funds. we believe that these principles of transparency and accountability should be key, should guide all these reforms, and also should be applied to other areas that are outside the budget of the european union. we have a lot of new interinstitutional instruments where a lot of public funds are committed, and we need to ensure that there is sufficient accountability and public audit. i think you have a good example with the european stability mechanism. allow me to make two remarks on concrete questions raised by members of this house. let me reassure ms macovei that the report on the agencies has already been delivered for all the agencies and that the horizontal issues to which she referred will be delivered in due course. she is absent but i believe the message will get to her. a word to mr audy. we are indeed very committed to working with the national audit institutions. in this annual report we have worked together with the national audit institution of the netherlands and with the national audit institution of the czech republic on a pilot study where we could work together. the results of that work underlie our conclusions on agriculture. this is an experience we have to assess, so as to measure the advantages and the disadvantages, the costs and benefits, but it is for sure the way we have to go, because we need to have a single concept for auditing the union budget.
this spot closes. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. i welcome the court of auditors' intention to introduce the notion of efficiency into its work, with the novelty this year of including a chapter in the court of auditors' report entitled 'getting results from the eu budget'. this is all the more important in the difficult times we are going through, when we must be particularly vigilant in how we manage the public sector, by respecting the financial regulation, but more importantly by committing ourselves to using european contributions in the most efficient way possible. on the contrary, i am disappointed with the information which has become increasingly lacking over the years in the court of auditors' special reports for agencies and joint undertakings. on the contrary, these decentralised agencies, which are present in various member states, deserve particular attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the eu committed itself to help developing countries reach the millennium goals, achieving 0.7 % official development aid by 2015, and committed itself on aid effectiveness, debt, climate, finance, etc. the eu has not reached the 0.7% target and, with the crisis, is unlikely to do so in the near future. the greens believe in a change of policy, addressing tax havens and tax evasion, with binding measures, implementing article 208 of the lisbon treaty on policy coherence, by matching words with actions, with coherent policies between trade, agriculture and fishing, addressing farmland acquisition by foreign investors with the risk of undermining food security, such as in africa, and putting in place fair trade rules to break the vicious circle whereby developing countries are locked into dire poverty despite agricultural and mineral resources. the trade pattern where developing countries export raw materials and buy manufactured products from industrialised countries has to change. the next report on the eu’s accountability should include the abovementioned policy changes as well as its financial commitments.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kaczmarek, on his excellent work. it is important that the european parliament should take stock of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly each year, since this assembly plays a decisive role in strengthening the north-south dialogue and in implementing a development policy based on partnership and exchange. 2010 was a rich year for the apa, which met twice, as my predecessors said, in spain and the democratic republic of congo, to discuss, among other things, the impact of climate change in the acp countries, the impact of the global crisis, media freedom and independence and food security. but in 2010, the app also sent its first election observation mission to this legislature. i had the honour of co-chair ing this mission to burundi for the presidential elections with my colleague assarid, member of parliament from mali. this election observation mission was a real success. we were able to meet all the political actors concerned and, thanks to the dual origin of this delegation, both acp and european, we embodied a different legitimacy from european or african missions. i therefore invite the bureau of the acp to renew this experience, which makes it possible to put into practice the solidarity and the special relations which unite the european union and the acp countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak of culture at european level, we always refer to the sum of the cultures of the different member states which each one must discover and appropriate to himself, but we rarely speak of a common heritage, a european heritage which goes beyond national histories, reflecting the intense interactions and rich exchanges which have bound us together for centuries. the european heritage label was originally an intergovernmental initiative which already reflected europe's cultural roots. what were the sites marked? the acropolis in athens, the birthplace of the first democracy in the world. cluny abbey, the crossroads of roman civilization, which gave birth to european humanism the gdansk shipyards, stronghold of the solidarność trade union, whose courage changed the face of europe. the home of robert schuman, political visionary and founding father of the european union. all of them are places where our common history and the values we stand for together are read. tomorrow we will vote to turn this intergovernmental initiative into a community project, to strengthen the credibility, visibility and prestige of this label by establishing transparent and rigorous selection criteria. i would like to thank chrysoula paliadeli and the open-mindedness she has shown in defending a quality label awarded every two years, which encourages cooperation to promote transnational sites, which has an independent jury of experts appointed fairly between the institutions, and which rewards not the beauty of a site or its architectural quality but its symbolic value for european integration. jean monnet, the father of europe, is wrongly credited with the quote: "if i had to do it all over again, i would start with culture". the success of this formula is based on the idea that our union was first economic, then political, but never cultural. yet europe was the home of painters, philosophers, artists and writers long before the ecsc or the treaty of rome. it is not a question of creating an artificial european culture but of recognising the heritage we share. the european heritage label is an essential initiative for the development of cultural europe, because it allows for this recognition, this pedagogy and this outreach.
president of the european council. − mr president, it may at first sight appear strange to be addressing the issue of longer-term reforms to our system of economic governance when we have not yet completely dealt with the immediate difficulties which are the legacy of past mistakes. yet these are two sides of the same coin: short-term solutions will not be credible in the absence of a longer-term perspective. the longer-term perspective also presupposes that we can turn the corner on the current crisis, but in today’s debate i will focus, as parliament has suggested, on the longer term. as you are aware, the conclusions of the eurozone summit of 26 october 2011 charged me, in close cooperation with the president of the european commission and the president of the eurogroup, to identify possible steps to strengthen the economic union to make it commensurate with the monetary union, focused on strengthening economic convergence within the euro area, improving fiscal discipline and deepening economic union, including exploring the possibility of limited treaty changes. i will present an interim report to the december european council, which will include a roadmap on how to proceed while fully respecting the prerogatives of the institutions, including the european parliament. a final report will be finalised by march or june 2012. the task i see for us is clear: we have to bring the economic and monetary union to a solid end-state. i relish this opportunity to listen to your views. in discussing this, i think it is first advisable to look at what we have already done over the last 20 months and then to see where it is desirable to move further. at that point it will become clear whether or not such further advances need treaty change and, if so, what changes. what is it that we have achieved so far? it is often overlooked and underestimated, not least by the outside world and the markets, and we need to be extremely vigilant in implementing it. we have in fact put in place a multi-faceted reform, combining institutional pressure, peer pressure and market pressure. i mentioned these in the debate last month, but allow me to be more detailed now. institutional pressure has been strengthened, also thanks to your parliament, through: the establishment of the three financial sector supervisory authorities and the european systemic risk board; the reform of the stability and growth pact, providing for shorter deadlines, a greater focus on debts (and not just on deficits), and making it easier to sanction a member state not fulfilling its obligations; adding a new macroeconomic surveillance procedure looking at other macroeconomic imbalances – after all, that is only a part of the wider economic picture – and finally, establishing the efsf (and the long-term esm) capable of providing support in return for strict conditionality. conditionality is a powerful tool, as is now becoming clear to all those who follow these matters. at the same time, peer pressure has been enhanced. to give a few examples, for a start all governments now realise much more acutely how the conduct of another country can have an enormous economic and financial impact on their own. peer pressure will also be exerted at the highest political level through regular euro summits. the events of the last weeks show how effective this can be for some countries. the european semester provides an annual cycle of intense macroeconomic, budgetary and structural policy coordination. finally, 23 of the 27 member states have agreed to go further and work together in the euro plus pact on structural reforms that have a bearing on their competitiveness, over and beyond the important europe 2020 programme. market pressure will complement the above because institutional and peer pressures will also have an impact on the market, amplifying their political effect. markets may now be over-reacting, but they will not go to sleep again! indeed, the combination of these three pressures is already producing results. at their summit last month, eurozone member states entered into a number of additional commitments, notably the following: to translate the stability and growth pact rules into national legislation, preferably at constitutional level or equivalent, by the end of 2012; to ensure that national budgets are based on independent growth forecasts; to consult one another and the commission before the adoption of any major fiscal and economic policy reform plans with potential spillover effects; and also to stick voluntarily to the recommendations of the commission and the relevant commissioner regarding the implementation of the stability and growth pact. finally, a number of member states have adopted further reform measures, not least as a result of these pressures. it was also agreed that for euro area members in an excessive deficit procedure, the commission and the council will be able to examine national draft budgets and adopt opinions on them prior to their adoption by the relevant national parliament. the commission will now bring forward proposals on closer monitoring to the council and parliament under article 136. the commission has already strengthened the role of the competent commissioner in this field, and i would like to congratulate olli rehn on his elevation to the vice-presidency of the commission. the eurogroup of finance ministers will, together with the commission and the ecb, remain at the core of the daily management of the euro area, as is explicitly mentioned in the conclusions of the eurozone summit. as you know, the treaty provides for the eurozone finance ministers to elect their own president, currently jean-claude junker, to whom i want to pay tribute today for his work and his engagement. when his mandate expires next year, a decision will be taken on whether his position should become a full-time one based in brussels. the eurozone summit – and i quote – ‘will define strategic orientations for the conduct of economic policies and for improved competitiveness and increased convergence in the euro area’. in the same way as the european council does for the union as a whole, we will also organise a better coordination among the eurozone institutions and strengthen the existing administrative support without creating new bodies. does this strengthening of cooperation among the 17 – i repeat among the 17, no more, no fewer – create a two-tier europe? there has been much exaggerated talk about this; it is time to de-dramatise this debate. after all, it is perfectly natural that those who share a common currency take some decisions together. indeed, the existing treaty already provides for that with a special chapter containing provisions specific to member states whose currency is the euro and other provisions where only members of the council from euro member states can vote. it is thus a perfectly normal part of our current institutional arrangements, a specific working method. as i said to you last month, the eurozone is not a derogation from the european union, it is part of the european union. the treaty is quite clear: it is the member states who have not joined the euro which are referred to as member states with a derogation, and of course most of them will in due course join the euro. it is in the interest of the non-eurozone eu members that its financial stability is organised and secured. a better structured euro area is in everybody’s interest while ensuring coherence among the 27. it is my intention to organise eurozone summits as a rule in conjunction with european council meetings, if possible following them. this will enable all 27 to contribute in the full european council meeting and make points, should they so wish, on the issues to be discussed among the 17, and likewise the commission and the parliament will continue to play their substantial roles involving their members from all member states. i will report to parliament on eurozone summits. i wanted to outline all this to you because it shows that the steps taken over the last few months, each one perhaps small in itself, amount cumulatively to a significant change already in our governance structures. it is clearly the starting point for any reflection on where to go further. in doing so, it is my intention to examine the ‘what’ before the ‘how’. we should examine the goals, and only afterwards the legal instruments required to get there, including limited treaty changes should these prove necessary. a lot can be done within the treaties, including the use of instruments such as enhanced cooperation. for treaty changes, a unanimous ratification is needed by every single member state. institutional changes are no substitute for dealing with the immediate financial crisis, so we have to get the different time perspectives right. however, improvements of all kinds are possible and in themselves desirable. it is useful too to give the public and the markets a sense of our medium-term direction. some of these areas in which improvements to our economic governance could be envisaged are obvious; others less so. let me mention the three issues in the mandate from the euro summit statement: strengthening economic convergence, improving fiscal discipline and deepening economic union. firstly, as regards strengthening economic convergence, we need to examine whether to go beyond the ‘six-pack’ in terms of further macroeconomic surveillance, how to strengthen the framework for commitments under the euro plus pact, and whether there are areas in which enhanced cooperation is desirable among the 17 in areas of economic policy that are crucial for competitiveness. secondly, in terms of improving fiscal discipline, should we go further in terms of the automaticity of the sanctions provided for under the excessive deficit procedure? should we provide, in extreme cases, for further sanctions such as suspension of voting rights, suspension of structural funds or other payments, or power for a central authority to intervene in national budgetary procedures? thirdly and finally, in terms of deepening economic union, is there a need for harmonisation in certain areas such as taxation or even some social fields? should there be a limited mutualisation of public debt, and what further regulations are needed for the financial sector? again, all these questions are interlinked and changes in one respect cannot always be assessed independently of changes in others. this crisis in the euro area does require us to do more. we have come a long way from the empty, and now discredited, toolbox i discovered when i took office – which i still consider as a major error, all the more so that during the convention warnings were given by lucid observers. we now need to go further, and we need both fiscal discipline and economic and fiscal integration focused on growth – not only to punish the sinners but also to link our policies, to demonstrate that we share a common destiny. we need to acknowledge that this means a sharing of sovereignty for all members of the eurozone, and not only a loss for the countries in difficulty. we need to find the right balance between intrusiveness and legitimacy, discipline and incentives, effectiveness and accountability. this will guide my thinking on the fundamentals of the economic and monetary union in the months ahead. but above all, today, i want to listen to your views, your ideas and your suggestions; this parliament has always been a rich source of ideas, a laboratory of proposals for the development of our union. i look forward to hearing them.
president of the commission. − mr president, the european commission’s recent economic forecasts are further proof that the backdrop against which we are all working is indeed pressing, and extremely challenging. economic recovery has hit a standstill. since our last fully-fledged forecast in may, global economic conditions have worsened. investment and consumption are stagnant, and are being damaged by a persistent lack of confidence. growth forecasts are low and unemployment is set to remain at around 10% for the next two years, at 23 million people across the european union: a terrible situation. added to this are the continued turbulent events in the sovereign bond markets meaning that our challenges are of a greater magnitude today. it is precisely for the restoration of confidence that our work on fiscal consolidation, on structural reforms, on strengthening economic governance and on boosting growth is more important than ever before. that is why the commission is advancing its work and taking its responsibilities with the utmost seriousness. as i said to this house on the day after the euro area summit on 27 october, the commission will advance its second annual growth survey on policies for growth and jobs in the european union for 23 november. at the same time, we will come forward with our proposals on further strengthening the economic governance of the euro. the purpose is to continue the comprehensive approach i set out in my state of the union address to this parliament, and also in the commission’s roadmap to stability and growth two weeks later. we need more discipline, but we need more convergence. we need more responsibility, but more solidarity. we need financial stability, but also economic growth. and this is the pact we are proposing to the european citizens. we cannot do this only through responsibility; we need solidarity. we cannot do this only through financial stability; we need economic growth. the commission’s second annual growth survey will provide a first assessment of progress in the implementation of commitments made in the first european semester, including country-specific recommendations and those under the euro plus pact, and constitutes the starting point for the second european semester. let me make two remarks on the annual growth survey. the first message will be the importance of staying the course and implementing what has already been agreed. consistency in implementation is key. we cannot change our plans all the time. we have to be consistent and deliver concretely the commitments that have been made. the problems we will face in 2012 are even more systemic and urgent. we should continue to deal with them robustly and not be diverted from the direction we have set ourselves. the downbeat economic perspectives do not mean we can allow ourselves to reduce our efforts in fiscal consolidation or in promoting growth. they must be stepped up, because we are reforming for the long term. the second remark is that the experience of having completed one full annual growth survey and european semester, combined with the strengthened rules we now have on economic governance, means that our decisions need to be reinforced and adapted in certain respects. not least to take account of the persistent and pervasive nature of the crisis. we are indeed now facing a truly systemic crisis that requires an even stronger commitment from all and may require additional – and very important – measures. for 2012, the annual growth survey will focus on five key areas. first, on pursuing stability through fiscal consolidation. second, on further strengthening the financial sector. i would like to thank this house for its support for the 27 proposals on the financial sector that the commission has put forward over the last months. i count on you in 2012 to support the financial transaction tax and the proposal we adopted yesterday on credit rating agencies. third, on boosting growth by reducing fragmentation in our markets and making europe a more attractive place to create and invest. in the year ahead, i count on the support of this parliament to fast-track a number of measures on the table, namely the single market proposals. let us not forget that we have to liberate the full potential of the single market, because the key to the response to the current crisis is growth, and without growth there will be no way out of this crisis. we can do much more – through structural reform – to achieve the goal of growth. fourth, on nurturing our human and social capital. i am thinking here specifically of young people unable to find meaningful work in europe, and all that can be done to help them. fifth, on modernising our public administrations, which are a determining element of competitiveness and productivity. today we are invited to discuss economic governance. for some, it may seem frivolous to discuss this topic at a time when urgency demands action. and yes, let me be clear: all levers of action must now be used without delay. discussing governance, including treaty change, must not be an excuse not to take action now, because action is needed now. having said that, governance matters: it defines the parameters within which action can – or cannot – be taken. in this respect, we have been held back by the intergovernmental approach that has been predominant in many of the decisions, because the intergovernmental approach puts a premium on the slowest and the most reluctant, not on the most decided and the most engaged. take the european financial stability facility, for example. it must be as flexible as possible. the unanimity rule has held back its development for too long, until we finally came to the decisions of 27 october, and this is one of the problems. today the markets, the investors, are not only looking at the deficits, at levels of debt, but also at the capacity of the euro area and the european union to take decisions. that is why having a stronger governance of the euro area is vital for the survival and the reinforcement of our common currency. markets and investors demand stronger governance in the euro area – it is not just a political issue for those, like me and many of you, who share a passion for a stronger europe. it is indeed now just a matter of common sense to have stronger economic governance in the euro area, and of course in the european union. reforms at national level must be completed with appropriate structures at european level that will give weight and resonance to the economic decisions. on 23 november, i expect the commission to adopt, and to send to this house, two initiatives on further deepening european union and euro area economic governance in line with the roadmap for stability and growth that i presented to you on 12 october, and which was largely endorsed by the european council. these initiatives are based on article 136 of the current treaty. in addition, the commission will present a green paper on stability bonds, which i know is eagerly awaited by this house. this will be followed, before the end of the year, by a communication that deserves special attention: a communication on the external representation of the euro area, based on article 138(2) of the treaty. it will make proposals towards a more consolidated european voice and representation in international fora and institutions such as the g20 and the imf. in strengthening our integration, we must also strengthen our voice and strengthen our credibility worldwide. the initiatives based on article 136 that vice-president rehn is now completing will address two issues. on the one hand, the need to increase surveillance, especially for member states that put at risk the financial stability of all. the first regulation is for enhanced surveillance of euro area member states that are experiencing severe financial disturbance or requesting financial assistance. it will provide an interface between intergovernmental financial assistance and treaty-based surveillance – in other words, bringing it into the community framework. it will step up surveillance for euro member states receiving precautionary assistance and assistance under an adjustment programme, and will also ensure post-programme surveillance. the key here is to ensure coherence between reinforced governance in the euro area and the overall acquis of the 27 member states of the european union, thereby increasing convergence in the 17 members of the euro area without damaging the interests of all the european union. the second regulation is for enhanced surveillance for euro area member states in excessive deficit procedure, thereby translating one of the commitments of 26 october. it will set out graduated steps and conditions for monitoring national budgetary policies. it should enable the commission and the council to examine national draft budgets ex-ante and to adopt an opinion on them before their adoption by the national parliaments, requesting a second reading in serious cases. in addition, the commission will monitor budget execution and, if necessary, suggest amendments in the course of the year. but in connection with this, i want to be clear about one thing in particular. the final say on national budgets will remain where it belongs, with national parliaments. but national parliaments have to be made much more keenly aware of the european rules which their governments – and they themselves – have agreed to respect. increased surveillance by the commission will lead unavoidably to a greater role in domains previously restricted to national governments or parliaments. but this is necessary and indispensable if we want to have a common currency. here, i think, the european parliament can play an absolutely vital role, in particular through interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation. the final part of our package is the green paper on euro stability bonds. it will present and assess the options for the joint issuance of bonds in the euro area. it will also explore reinforced economic governance options that would need to be developed, depending on the decisions taken. i believe that euro stability bonds will be seen as natural when we achieve our goal of reinforced governance and, of course, discipline and convergence in the euro area. they will be a concrete demonstration of the principles of responsibility and solidarity. i should like to summarise by saying a few words on the principles behind this package. the increasingly systemic nature of the crisis has made it clear that we must progress with greater integration of economic governance, especially within the euro area. this crisis has exposed weaknesses and gaps in terms of surveillance, intervention and decision-making. some of these can now be addressed thanks to the recent successful conclusion of the ‘six-pack’ negotiations, for which i thank this house for its excellent cooperation – more than that, for its decisive commitment. the ‘six-pack’ will come into force in around one month from now and, as vice-president rehn has stated, the commission will use its provisions from day one. but, as we could see from the conclusions of the euro area summit on 26 october, there is full consensus now to go further, and this is a very important development. member states are now accepting what some time ago would be considered unthinkable. euro area member states must now consult the commission – and each other – before adopting any major fiscal or economic policy reform plans. they have committed to respect the commission’s recommendations in implementing the stability and growth pact. and they have entrusted the commission with the lead role in monitoring the implementation of the second greek programme and the reforms in italy. that is why this package, and in particular the regulations based on article 136, will address problems that have become more visible and more acute in the sovereign debt crisis, namely the risks of contagion and spill-over from countries experiencing severe financial disturbances. reinforced surveillance is absolutely crucial in bolstering confidence among the general public and market participants. while this reinforced discipline is now recognised as entirely necessary, the commission is committed to going further to make sure that changes in economic governance are done in a transparent way; in a democratic way; in the community way. these regulations will be based on the principle of full transparency. both regulations will of course be subject to codecision. and we look forward to continuing the excellent cooperation with this house which we saw, for instance, in the ‘six-pack’ negotiations. the instruments we have developed and are still developing will be essential to ensure that we do not face again the kind of situations that made europe so vulnerable to the crisis. they insist that member states, especially in the euro area, live up to a long-standing obligation. it is, to quote the european union treaty, that member states must – ipsis verbis – ‘regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern’. this is the fundamental lesson of the crisis: it is the lesson of interdependence. it is the lesson that, when things go wrong, the consequences are felt far beyond national borders. and the hardest lesson is this: when things go badly wrong, the impact is felt by every european taxpayer and by far too many european workers, whose prosperity and livelihoods are put at risk not only by their own governments but, sometimes, by someone else’s government. that is why we need to learn these lessons, to do all we can to rebuild our structures and revise our rules in a unified way that takes proper account of our interdependence and the responsibility that places on all of us, including of course the european institutions. a key way to ensure this is – as i have said many times to this parliament and also to the european council – to insist that the community method and the community institutions remain at the heart of our response to the crisis. they must be at the core of how we shape the european union to make it stronger and fitter for the future; to make it more efficient, but at the same time to uphold its democratic principles. it means governance for all and by all, not only by a few. in the future, we will need to go even further on strengthening integration. this will require treaty changes. let me be clear: i am in favour of treaty change if the treaty change is to reinforce the european union, the community method, the european institutions and the sense of a common purpose. but let us not fool ourselves. treaty change takes time and should not be seen as the immediate solution for the current crisis. let us discuss it seriously, with due reflection and with due involvement of relevant actors and institutions, namely this european parliament. as president van rompuy has mentioned, there will be a report to the next european council. the president of the european council was asked, in close cooperation with the president of the commission and the president of the eurogroup, to identify possible steps on further strengthening economic convergence within the euro area, improving fiscal discipline and deepening economic union, including exploring the possibility of treaty changes. but this should be seen as just the beginning of a process in which the level of ambition, democratic participation and involvement of the representatives of the european citizens is absolutely crucial. i am committed, and i will make sure, that this process will be conducted in close collaboration and cooperation with you, the european union citizens’ representatives. the community method and the community institutions remain at the heart of the process and they must also remain at the core of how we shape the european union to make it stronger and fitter for the future. this also shows that for the euro – if we are committed to the community approach, and if we are committed to respecting the treaties – we do not need another commission, another parliament, another court of justice. the euro is a central part of the european union, not something separate or apart. (applause)the euro is not an opt-out from the european union. this is why we should implement the community approach when we deal with the euro. we will not make the euro stronger through the fragmentation of the european union. as i have stated several times to you and also to the european council, the economic government of europe in matters of european union competence is the european commission. its accountability is to this parliament. this is the responsibility of the full college, not a part of it. i have given vice-president rehn special responsibility regarding euro governance and we have made sure that economic analysis is done in the most objective way. but let us be clear: in matters of political decision, the responsibility of the commission is collegiate. we need to respect the rules. we need, more than ever, strong community institutions and strong governance. this is also part of rebuilding confidence. any revision of the treaty should be for deeper integration of the euro area, but also for a stronger european union, in full respect of the community method and, of course, the prerogatives of this parliament. reinforcing the governance of the euro is also reinforcing our union. there should not be any divide between the current 17 member states on one side and 10 on the other; most – almost all – of which have a vocation to join the euro. all member states are full members of the union, and all should be committed to fulfilling the objectives of the treaties. the member states of the euro area have committed to completing the monetary union with an economic union, but this must also be completed with a political union, and with the political unity to move forward together. the community institutions par excellence – this parliament and the commission – have never left in doubt their determination to tackle this crisis head-on and to work for a stronger european union. i know that i can count on you and you can certainly count on the commission to continue doing precisely that. (applause)
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i understood that the debate we are having today should be about the governance of the euro area, and should not therefore concern the substance in the first place, but should concern first and foremost our working method and the interlinking of our different working methods. i do not really distinguish between form and substance, because in europe i have often found that form is the substance that comes to the surface. if your working methods are intergovernmental, it is because your will is not entirely community-based, which of course explains many working methods. i would like to review very briefly some of the elements of our working methods: macroeconomic surveillance and the european semester first. i do not believe, to be honest, that we can draw any definitive conclusions from this first experience of the first half of the year. i am not disappointed with the results of the first half of the year, but i believe that the results are definitely improving. i think it is quite normal that in a first, rather superficial, hasty experiment, we cannot draw all the possible conclusions. i believe that when governments present their draft budgets for 2012, this exercise of ex ante and a priori consultation will enable us to check whether or not governments have followed in full or in part the recommendations addressed to them during the first european semester. in general, i would like this exercise to become more political, more inclusive and less technical. if we are to be the economic government of europe, we must have the ambition of a government. it is obvious that all the different council configurations must be better involved in the exercise centred around the european semester and that all the sensitivities which are expressed through the different council configurations must be better heard. i do not believe that economic governance, since it is not simply the budgetary management of things, cannot be in the exclusive hands of ecofin and the finance ministers. (applause) wait for the end! i can already hear the train whistle! i meant by that, since the dimension of growth is of equal importance, as both presidents have stressed, we will of course have to involve the european councils in the preparation, whether they are the eurozone-level european councils or the european council as we know it, the social affairs council, the competitiveness council, the research council, the ministers responsible for energy, transport and innovation, the fight for employment, the fight against poverty, and i would like them to be able to intervene with the same vigour in the debate as the finance ministers. (applause) and i would like to see in all our approaches, our working methods become more political. in fact, after a fairly long experience of community affairs, i find that very often, at the level of finance ministers, sometimes at the level of prime ministers, we endorse texts which we have not prepared ourselves and which we have not discussed among ourselves. it is a bit like some of the committees of the european parliament, but in our case it is more ... (cheers and applause) ah, i got you, huh? i've been looking in vain for an opportunity to draw you out of your overly benevolent reserve. forget it, it was a test! i'd like our work to become more political. i would like to see more detailed discussions on the specific situations of the various member states at the level of ecofin, as well as at the level of the other council formations and at the level of the european council under the presidency of mr van rompuy. i would like to see a government that is able to say yes or no to recommendations and the others to enter into a virtuous dialogue with the government of the country concerned, because we are not a government if we cannot have a rich debate among ourselves on the essential political choices that we must make together but that we must apply individually in our different countries. i would like the european parliament to be involved as closely as possible in our approach to budgetary and macroeconomic surveillance. i know how difficult it was for the council and the european parliament to agree on the exact content of what is commonly called the economic dialogue. but i would like the various presidents of the various councils to be invited by the european parliament to discuss the major choices made by the member states and the council of ministers. as you know, as president of the eurogroup, i will always be at your disposal to come and discuss the various recommendations and decisions we have taken. i am one of those who believe that a member state in particular difficulty, a member state in excessive deficit, a member state under particular pressure, should be given the opportunity to come to the european parliament to explain itself. it is foreseen that parliament may invite a member state - the member state is not obliged to come - but if we want to make europe more of a solidarity package, it seems to me obvious that those who ask for solidarity and who must show solidity must also explain themselves to the european parliament, if only to have a better perception of the brand image and the degree of difficulty than the other member states, which members of parliament will better understand if a government explains itself live and in colors to the european parliament. on governance itself, president van rompuy explained to you the interlinkage between the euro council, chaired by mr van rompuy, and the eurogroup, which i have the honour of chairing. there's no competition, there's no competition between the two. the eurogroup remains the essential machine for organizing in detail the day-to-day, i.e. monthly, management of economic policy coordination. the eurogroup has to prepare the meetings of the eurogroup council and we will see, when my mandate expires, that is to say on 1 june 2012, whether we are not going to turn the eurogroup presidency into a permanent presidency, relying on protocol 14 of the treaty, which does not say that a member of the eurogroup must preside over the eurogroup, but that another eurogroup president can be chosen even from outside the eurogroup members. we'll see about that in due course. i would like to see the chairman of the eurogroup working group, that is to say, of this subgroup of the economic and financial committee, made a full-time job. it is essential, if only for the day-to-day organisation of relations between the commission, the directorates-general and the eurogroup, that a chairman of the eurogroup working group be permanently and permanently installed in brussels. this will greatly facilitate the preparation and search for solutions. in the very short term, i wanted to tell you that we are in the process of finalising the amendments we need to make to the framework agreement on the efsf at the level of the eurogroup. mr klaus regling, who is the head of the esfs, is looking in detail at the various options, particularly as regards the leverages that need to be considered. i hope we can complete this work before the end of november. in any case, we have no choice but to expedite the proceedings. i refer to the wise words of the president of the commission on this aspect of governance. we shall be discussing before the end of the month the question of the payment of the sixth instalment of eight billion, with two thirds being paid by us and one third by the international monetary fund to greece. the eurogroup, at its meeting a week ago, decided that this tranche could be paid if sustainability is proven, if we agree on a new greek programme which mr van rompuy agreed with us on 26 and 27 october, we make the payment of this sixth tranche conditional on the fulfilment of all the elements of all the decisions taken on 26 and 27 october in brussels and we expect to receive a letter from the greek prime minister informing us of the exact intentions, now and in the long term, of the greek authorities in responding to the recommendations and decisions taken on 26 and 27 october. we will hurry to finalise the amendments we need to make to the treaty concerning the european stability mechanism. we will be looking at the difficult question of private sector involvement, private sector participation in future support operations. this is a question that is only apparently simple and is very difficult when examined more closely. that, mr president, is the main point i can make at this stage. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr josé manuel barroso, mr herman van rompuy, mr jean-claude juncker, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis is changing the game and we are witnessing an impressive acceleration of change: changes in greece, in italy, with the establishment of national unity governments, which we welcome; the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. finally, not all, since david cameron thought it was good to attack, yesterday, a europe to which, however, the last time i checked - yesterday afternoon - his country still belongs, and so we expect constructive positions, even from him, to get out of the crisis. but finally, all the influential actors in the union recognize - i have been saying this for years - that the solution to our problems is not less europe but more europe. the solution is europe. i think some presidents have understood that. those who didn't get it are replaced; it's a very good thing. a europe that must be transformed in the direction of integration as it should have been at the time of the creation of the euro because, once again, the current crisis is not only a crisis of the euro which, this morning, my dear jean-claude, was still trading at around 1.35 against the dollar 1.34? it would have been a penny lower, it's still bearable. this crisis is the result of the mistake of creating a currency without giving it the governance to make it work. we must recognize this political mistake, but above all we must correct it and very quickly. that is what the member states of the euro area are doing by force of circumstances, and once again i welcome the council, my dear friend herman van rompuy, who is working but who, in my opinion, is not working fast enough because when the house is on fire, the fire brigade goes to work and as i said, we never criticize the fire brigade. i was a volunteer fireman myself. we do the post-fire synthesis, we look at what we've lost and what we can improve. that's what i'm asking you, my dear herman, don't be afraid, go even more strongly! we'll figure it out later. however, i would like to stress once again the importance of managing the crisis which is a new source of division in europe. dear friends, we are experiencing it more and more, we must be very careful between those who are in a deep crisis and others who have managed better, we must recognize it. i want to stress the crucial need for the seventeen to take all the instruments of the europlus pact into account in their decisions on the governance of the euro area. jean-claude, do it, it is your job! there are many countries that want to join the eurozone. let us not create in this euro area a europe of players of several categories. let us not put aside countries that are warming up to get back on track. let's not push them away with strategic decisions made in the locker room. i would like to emphasize the merit of countries such as poland, which holds the presidency and which, although not yet in the euro zone, are making very courageous efforts politically to improve their finances and develop growth. they need to be encouraged, they need to be included in the club. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am convinced that the franco-german partnership is an indispensable motor for europe - as the last few weeks have shown - and i call on all the member states, instead of complaining about the movement of paris or berlin, to contribute and go further than paris and berlin. no one's stopping them. i would also like to appeal to the european commission, mr barroso, to do everything possible with your commissioners to safeguard, strengthen and protect the cohesion of europe. do everything you can to reassure small and large states that the community method remains our cement; that it is always what has kept us going, what has united us. it's in the hard times that we need to strengthen it. this is the main responsibility of the two institutions, parliament and the commission, which defend the general european interest. i should like to conclude my speech in the debate on a possible revision of the european treaties. yes, changes will certainly be necessary to correct what needs to be corrected. yes, these adjustments will certainly have to be major, given the importance of the issues at stake today. my group is open to this process, provided that it is the subject of an open, democratic debate, in which elected representatives and civil society participate in the framework of a convention. but above all, let us not fall into the temptation of devoting all our debates to the tools of the machinist, to the detriment of our political objectives. let us not lose sight of what is urgent, namely credible economic governance, and what is less so, and let us do with the existing treaties what can and must be done, possibly, if necessary, by adapting the rules of procedure a little, as i call it. i am thinking of the completion of the internal market, the rules on financial supervision or the rating agencies. i am thinking of the political role of the vice-president of the commission responsible for economic and financial affairs, which has yet to be defined. i am thinking of the swift implementation of the stability and growth pact and of macroeconomic surveillance. (the president interrupted the speaker after an off-microphone interruption by mr bloom) i am thinking of real budgetary, fiscal and social integration. mr president, europe is speaking and the anti-europeans are shouting. this is not my way of moving europe forward. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, there are times in life when we are forced to think things over a little more deeply. i was a longtime follower of hölderlin who said: ... mit der gefahr wächst auch das rettende."with danger, there also emerges what can save us". unfortunately, europe is showing us that it is not that simple, that the danger is increasing but that we do not see very clearly what will save us. when i hear mr van rompuy, i am a little stunned. mr van rompuy, you say to us: 'everything is fine, we have worked well for 20 months.' you're a good accountant, you've done your little math, and meanwhile, the world is going to hell. but you, the accountant, count and keep counting the days you've spent in your office. no, mr van rompuy, all that has been done is not enough. the fundamental question that we all have is that in the face of the crisis, many people believed that intergovernmental federalism was the most effective thing.
mr president, thank you all for being here to make this dialogue a reality and i very much appreciated what mr juncker said about the need for frequent dialogue on many subjects. mr van rompuy, you said - this morning in the financial times - that it is not enough to have a brilliant prime minister in italy, but that parliament must also support it. i think that is valid at european level. i simply want to say today that both on the revision of the treaties and on a number of crisis management measures, it would be in your interest, it would be in our collective interest that this parliament be more involved, not for us, but to convince the citizens better, to dispel this impression of lack of democracy even though the democratic problems are often in the states. a word, mr barroso, on external representation, on eurobonds: we are expecting ambitious measures. do not choose the lowest common denominator from the member states. design the external representation of the euro area in a way that convinces our external partners. choose eurobond solutions that are credible in external markets. we are in the spotlight right now and that's what makes things extremely serious. so we must work together, but without this parliament we will get nowhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally agree with what has been said by joseph daul, by werner langen, by mario mauro, and i shall not repeat it. i would like to speak to you in another way, which the citizens understand. i was with about a hundred people last night who asked me about the crisis, since unfortunately it is one of the subjects i deal with. and what europe needs today is to convince the citizens, and above all to convince the citizens. there are two kinds of citizens: those who give in to the sirens of populism and those who moan and say: 'europe has failed; europe has failed. europe is useless". and you have all the other citizens, more and more, who say: "we expect a lot from europe, but europe does not convince us of what it does". so it is our common task to convince the citizens. and i say convince the citizens before you convince the markets. i hear about markets all the time, i know markets and i know them professionally. is there no one to explain to you that the markets will never be satisfied? they'll always ask for more. the government changes in italy, now we are told that we must be sure that he will do this or that. and when he does this or that, we'll ask for something else. it's up to the politicians to take back control. markets are useful. they're necessary to the economy. they make it work. but they must not abuse it. and when i see the commission backtracking yesterday on the rating agency project, on innovative proposals which, in my opinion, did not go far enough, that is not how you convince the markets. it is proof that we are weak, all of us, that we give in to those who pressure us, forgetting that we are here to serve the citizens. and this parliament, you can count on it. i heard earlier that mr schulz was taking the six-pack that he did not vote for to his account. this shows that once we have voted, we are able to follow the commission and help it. and, mr barroso, you were saying earlier: 'help us!' does not parliament help the commission to move europe forward? so let's all be brave and bold together!
mr president, mr president barroso, commissioner rehn, i think you heard president juncker when he said how much the european semester should become a political tool. to do this, the founding act of the discussion - which is what you have called the annual growth review at least - should, it seems to us, become annual guidelines for sustainable growth. you have the opportunity to change it, this time, before the presentation of the next exercise, do it. secondly, if this european semester is to be a debate on political guidelines, then there will be no economic government without a parliament which is involved, associated, which has a say, which creates the discussion around these political and economic guidelines. recognize that in the financial year 2012 this european parliament could make proposals for amendments to this annual growth guideline, which would be discussed in the european council. that is what this parliament is proposing to you. i hope you will take it into account, because then we will have democracy, political debate and involve national parliaments and the european parliament in what must be a real governance of the euro area and the union.
in writing. the agreement of 27 october leaves no room for doubt. the austerity policies he intends to inscribe in the constitutions will plunge europe into a recession that will dry up tax revenues and widen deficits. they will amplify the risks associated with holding sovereign debt, causing interest rates to rise. banks will see their balance sheets deteriorate and will struggle to increase their capital. only the efsf would make it possible to organise debt restructuring and recapitalisation and to defuse any further tensions on rates. this would have required transforming it into an embryo of a european treasury, issuing euro bonds which the ecb could buy back at low rates. that's not on the table. the fund, which was originally endowed with 440 billion, now has only 250 billion. to raise the $1 trillion that is supposed to reassure the markets, it will turn the sovereign debt held into derivatives to trigger the "leverage effect". but the recession will increase the risk of failure. we can only imagine the effects of this securitisation of italian, spanish and other debts if these countries were to default partially. this agreement is explosive for the financial system, already threatened by austerity policies that are driving down growth. by using china instead of the ecb, it is damaging to industry and employment in europe.
mr president, we will soon have monuments and sites labelled 'european heritage'. i support this label because it will be a response to the latent need to bring citizens closer to europe. it is often said that europe is distant and ineffective. culture and heritage, when used in their proper context, are the elements that unite us. with initiatives like this, europe will prove that it is active and, above all, that it is real. i can speak about this all the more so since i myself am elected from a region whose history begins with all the first european civilizations. in the land of nîmes, as in all the mediterranean area, men often came from elsewhere in europe, they made roads, built monuments and created cities in which we still live today. i believe that these are the hallmarks of our common heritage that we must promote and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from major changes in international trade. the fund also aims to help redundant workers to find new jobs and to keep them. until 31 december 2011, the fund shall also provide assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the european adjustment fund is an indispensable tool. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a mechanism that should be widely debated. officially, the fund enables the european union to finance concrete actions to counter the effects of the crisis. it's just a cautery on a wooden leg. however, this mechanism is only used on an ad hoc basis. in fact, he's funding the layoffs. in the case of greece, it is now the aldi channel and one of its suppliers that have received support from the fund. the hard-discounting champion, which generates tens of billions of dollars in sales each year, has laid off more than 500 employees at two stores in greece. at a time when the greek people are suffering from the austerity measures imposed on their government by the european union, a large company is being encouraged and financed to lay off workers. i therefore voted against this report and i am sorry to see that once again european funds are being misused.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from major changes in international trade. the fund also aims to help redundant workers to find and keep a new job. until 31 december 2011, the fund shall also provide assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the european adjustment fund is an indispensable tool. that is why i voted in favour of these reports.
in writing. internationally, the european parliament has relations with different geographical areas. some of these relations are at a more advanced stage, such as the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. in 2010, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met twice. during these meetings, the cooperation agreement between the two entities and the respect of the commitment of the member states to allocate 0.7% of their gni to development aid were discussed. i am convinced that dialogue, based on democratic principles, is the starting point for any good relationship, and i voted in favour of the kaczmarek report.
in writing. this own-initiative report gives an account of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) in 2010. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is composed of 78 meps and 78 acp members. it meets twice a year - once in europe and once in an acp country. the 2010 ppp was held in tenerife (spain) and kinshasa (congo). the impact of climate change on acp countries, the social impact of the global crisis and food security were among the topics discussed. i voted in favour of this report because it was adopted unanimously by the deve committee and there were no problems.
in writing. the establishment of a european heritage label from 2013 aims to promote european identity through european history and heritage. the award of this label will be on a voluntary basis for transnational cultural sites. i am in favour of any initiative to bring the eu closer to its citizens and i voted in favour of the paliadeli report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out an action by the european union for the award of the european heritage label and will improve knowledge of our common history and heritage. the new biennial selection procedure will ensure a higher quality in the selection and monitoring of the sites selected, and will give our territories the opportunity to come together to promote our local heritage at european level.
in writing. the concept of the european heritage label was born in 2005. it is now seen as one of the tools that can help bridge the gap between the european union and european citizens. the label will now demonstrate that european history is linked to a common cultural heritage that is diverse, rich and complementary. it will help to strengthen the values of the european union, such as cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity. finally, it will help to enhance the visibility, prestige and credit of the european union. it is therefore in the interests of the european union that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs chrysoula paliadeli, on the creation of a european common heritage label. from 2013, the label will be available for sites that are symbolic (monuments, natural, industrial or urban sites, etc.) for european history and integration, as well as for contemporary heritage, depending on its relevance to the common history and heritage. the label will promote the common european history, with particular emphasis on the recognition of transnational sites. i hope that this is a new step we are taking towards the development of genuine european citizenship and the recognition of a common history and future.
in writing. education in european history is essential to develop a sense of belonging and to preserve a common memory. in this sense, the major sites linked to the major events that shaped europe must be recognised and valued by the citizens. only a european initiative could provide a framework capable of meeting these objectives. i therefore welcome the adoption in plenary of the report by mrs chrysoula paliadeli on the european heritage label. this initiative, originally an intergovernmental one, had to be extended to the whole of the union in order to ensure that its added value and thus its effectiveness were recognised. i particularly welcome the proposal to label transnational sites. they will be best placed to represent this common history and to encourage intercultural dialogue. finally, the reduction in the selection frequency to two years is entirely appropriate to avoid excessive labelling and thus ensure the quality of this label in the long term.
in writing. with its sites and monuments, which will soon be designated as european heritage, the union proves that it is still active, dynamic and very real, especially in the cultural field. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i strongly support this label, which remains relevant to the unesco world heritage, as it aims to promote the european symbolic dimension of sites and monuments classified for their historical value, more than just their beauty and architecture. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation, which will help to strengthen the sense of european identity of the younger generations of europeans and thus honour our duty of memory. i am not forgetting the economic impact that will result from this, with the consequent development of tourism in the classified regions. the city of marseille, from which i come, and the whole region are experiencing these problems. they are both the scene of the spread of the first european greek and roman civilizations, which permeate the historical heritage of the region, and a window on the euro-mediterranean world, promoting diversity and intercultural dialogue.
in writing. at this parliamentary session, there was talk of scrapping the 2001 european legislation on the liberalisation of rail services. the railway sector is performing poorly compared with other modes of transport. the aim is therefore to encourage rail transport for both freight and passenger transport. the serracchiani report, which i supported, calls for stricter competition rules to improve rail services and encourage investment in the sector.
in writing. i voted against this revision of the directives on railway liberalization. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. but the text also called on the european commission to present proposals in 2012 to finalise the separation of assets and the opening of the domestic market. but competition is not the panacea in this field, as in many others! vertical separation is also far from being proven effective! to show my opposition to the fact that 2012 should be the year in which railway liberalization is pursued with the same enthusiasm, i opposed the serrachiani report.
in writing. the continued opening up of rail transport to competition is a necessary development which we must consolidate as soon as possible. the text voted today in the european parliament should enable us to combat the many obstacles which hinder the development of competition, in particular by strengthening the means of the railway market control authorities. i regret, however, that this text misses a date for opening up domestic passenger transport to competition: our citizens are indeed looking forward to a wider range of transport services, no longer the monopoly of a single operator, and allowing service provision to be extended.
in writing. as regards the revision of the directives governing the organisation and regulation of european railways, i did not vote in favour because we can only worry about the future with the risk of dismantling rail transport. a genuinely objective assessment of the issue of complete separation between railway undertakings and infrastructure managers needs to be carried out by the commission by the end of 2012. as regards rail services and maintenance of equipment, we greens cannot accept that the union forces the incumbent railway companies to sacrifice the maintenance of their own equipment to new entrants, which would undermine the ability of incumbent operators to fulfil their public service missions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report establishing a single european railway area. almost 10 years after the first railway package, which opened up and liberalised the various european railway operators, we have won the case on guarantees which are essential for the protection of employees and train users in europe, including the rejection of the total unbundling between infrastructure managers and railway operators, and the disappearance of the minimum service requirement in the event of a strike. a 'meeting clause' with the european commission is also planned, which will allow a further debate on the legal framework for this single european railway area, and in particular on the status of employees in the sector.
in writing. with the first railway package adopted in 2001, a first attempt was made to reverse the decline of rail transport, ensure the integration of the sector and improve its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport. unfortunately, this first reform did not bring about any significant improvement in his situation. the adoption of this proposal for a directive was therefore urgent. merging three existing directives, it contains provisions on the appropriate financing and charging of railway infrastructure, conditions of competition on the railway market and the organisational reforms necessary to ensure adequate market surveillance. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the single european railway area. rail transport still has great potential which we tend to overlook. the aim is to make this sector more dynamic and competitive. this requires the removal of the technical, legal and political obstacles to a european railway area. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of rail transport. by improving the conditions of competition in the railway market, this report will make it possible to offer our citizens an efficient and diversified railway network service that best meets their expectations. it will be easier and cheaper to travel by train within europe.
in writing. it's about time. it had been 10 years since europe had set itself rules for moving towards a single railway area. but nothing had really moved forward. the railroad expansion has been slowed. in fact, rail has become the only sector to lose market shares in recent years. the explosion of low-cost short- and medium-distance services is a major factor. the train, however, meets several of our requirements: more environmentally friendly modes of transport (europe 2020 objectives), more cost-effective, which contribute to the sustainable development of our territories while offering solutions to the increased need for speed and intermodality, both for passengers and for goods. today we have come to realize that the train is a safe and valid mode of transport. the appropriate legal instruments must now be put in place. that is the spirit of this legislative package.
in writing. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the eu and its partners to approach the next climate negotiations in durban, south africa, at the end of november with ambition and determination. i agree 100% with the main message of this resolution: we need a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally binding international agreement for the period after 2011 because we must prevent global warming from exceeding 2°c and becoming irreversible. in this fight against climate change, i am convinced that europeans will have to lead by example. moreover, these efforts must not be at the expense of growth and competitiveness. on the contrary, they will be guaranteed by the proliferation of green jobs and innovation in europe. in this respect, i welcome the european commission's proposal that from 2014 onwards 20% of the eu's cohesion policy funds should be used to combat climate change. this will be an important contribution to the transition of our economy towards greener practices.
in writing. with ten days to go until the durban conference on climate change and the international climate negotiations at a tipping point between stagnation and progress the eu must take the lead and reaffirm its commitment to the continuation of the kyoto protocol after 2012, and do so with one voice! finally, it is recognised that the union economy would benefit from exceeding the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target by boosting green jobs and thus growth. the economic crisis cannot therefore be a valid excuse for inaction. i am voting in favour of the creation of a roadmap to ensure that a comprehensive climate treaty is in place by 2015 at the latest and that air transport is included in the eu's emissions trading scheme as from 1 january 2012. i would, however, draw attention to the concern about the huge gap between international commitments and the un target of limiting global warming to 2°c. this leaves little doubt that we will need to do more to contain the increase to 2°c.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the durban climate change conference. i particularly supported the call for a financial transaction tax.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament in preparation for the forthcoming durban conference on climate change. the european union is a major player in the world economy. we call on the european union to reaffirm its firm commitment to the kyoto protocol and to be unequivocal in its support for a second commitment period after 2012. the union should formally invite all international partners to do the same in order to meet the kyoto protocol's greenhouse gas reduction targets and limit global warming linked to climate change to 2°c. we have been able to emphasize in this resolution a subject which is very dear to me: the improvement of forest management as a fundamental precondition for reducing deforestation. in particular, we emphasised the need to continue the implementation of the mechanism for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (redd+). parliament has thus sent a strong message to activate a real mechanism to combat deforestation, which contributes 20% to greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted a resolution expressing its expectations for the forthcoming climate change conference to be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december 2011. after kyoto, the durban conference will be a unique opportunity to make ambitious commitments to reach a comprehensive, balanced and, eventually, legally binding agreement. the european union has a leading role to play in this meeting. by taking concrete and determined action to combat climate change, the european union is making a strong commitment to an economy based on greener growth and innovation. i am convinced that the european union can give new impetus to durban and lead its partners to an agreement which offers great prospects for the future of our economies. but the task is difficult. the main focus of durban will be to put into practice the achievements of the cancun conference, such as limiting global warming to below 2°c, the system for monitoring and controlling the actions of developed and developing countries, and the creation of a green climate fund for the benefit of developing countries.
in writing. this motion for a resolution is an ambitious and reasonable text. it is all the more interesting because it advocates the principle of a financial transaction tax. so my colleagues and i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. with two weeks to go until the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in durban, parliament had to send a clear message. i voted in favour of this resolution in particular because it calls for a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally binding international agreement for the period after 2012. it also urged the european union to reaffirm its firm commitment to the kyoto protocol and to take all necessary measures to avoid discontinuity between commitment periods. the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020 must be pursued. the european union must play a leading role in this matter, the future of future generations depends on it!
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which reaffirms the need for the union to participate in a comprehensive agreement to follow up the kyoto protocol in 2013, and the positions of strong co2 reductions in 2020 and 2050 despite strong opposition within the european parliament, especially on its right. i regret, however, the adoption of certain passages such as the demand for the creation of a global market for co2 allowances (with proven negative effects) or the respect of wto agreements on intellectual property, which constrains technology transfer. i welcome the european parliament's call for an ambitious global solution that can bridge the considerable gap between current ambition and the necessary target of keeping the temperature rise to 2°c. the stakes are certainly high, as the economic and financial crisis with its disastrous social consequences is being used to prevent the adoption of any ambitious agreement. i regret that the european parliament does not condemn more strongly the lack of will on the part of the member states in this negotiation. it is urgent to conclude and act now, as co2 emissions increased by 6% in 2010. the climate catastrophe will become uncontrollable if ambition is not at the negotiating table.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which recalls the urgency for the international community to make concrete commitments to combat global warming at the durban conference. indeed, a 2°c increase in temperature would have irreversible consequences for our environment and the well-being of future generations. this must be avoided at all costs by extending beyond 2012 the kyoto process, which is the only international legal instrument that obliges countries to reduce their greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. in france, we even exceeded the targets set by the protocol in 2010, reducing ghg emissions by 10% compared to 1990, thanks in particular to nuclear power. the eu has set an example with the energy-climate package, but it cannot be the only one fighting global warming indefinitely. emerging and industrialized countries, such as china and the united states, which are the biggest polluters, must absolutely contribute to this effort, which can only be global. our house is already too burned down for our partners to keep looking elsewhere.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which calls for combating illicit financing, supporting international trade and private investment and helping developing countries to combat climate change.
in writing. i supported this resolution drafted by my colleague michèle striffler. the resolution first recalls the enormous contribution made to developing countries, in particular through the good management of aid for sustainable development in the fields of health, education, gender equality, biodiversity and many other areas. however, it is clear that the european union must continue its efforts. this resolution proposes ways of improving aid and financing for development, and of political dialogue with emerging economies on development cooperation. i voted in favour of this interesting resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the european union's responsibility for financing development in third countries. the report calls on the member states to respect their own objectives in financing development aid. however, these are not unsustainable: each state must contribute 0.7% of its gross national income (gni) to this aid. we are now only 0.43%. this is a multi-billion euro shortfall in countries whose urgent financial needs in implementing health and education policies are known. the economic and financial crisis has given the countries of the north, and in particular the european countries, a duty to the people of the countries of the south. the aid to these countries should show that europe's values are those of solidarity, human progress and openness to the world. europe should finally be up to the challenge of development aid. there's still a long way to go.
in writing. in the digital age, the film industry is facing several challenges, including the standardisation of reels, which is forcing all distribution networks to change their projection systems. while the large operators have already made the digital switch, it is more difficult for the smaller venues. that is why the borys report, which i supported, calls for the establishment of a european framework to ensure this transition, including financial support from the union and the promotion of european cinema.
in writing. european cinema has two fundamental roles for european society, one relating to cultural development and the other to economic dynamism. the digital switchover is a major financial challenge for european cinemas, especially small independent cinemas, as this development seems inevitable. this is a rather sensitive issue: while these independent cinemas reflect our european cinematic style, it is necessary to ensure that investments to respond to technical changes do not endanger their existence or restrict their programming independence. the differences in infrastructure in europe and therefore in accessibility must also be taken into account: there are 16 102 people per cinema in western europe compared to 40 750 in central and eastern europe. in this sense, the piotr borys report on european cinema in the digital age, which i supported, is a text that goes in the right direction in seeking to protect european cinemas and film productions and to redress the 'gap' in accessibility to cinema in europe. i hope that these proposals will be heard in order to preserve the cultural and economic capital of our film production.
in writing. this report was adopted unanimously by the cult committee. it mentions the opportunities and challenges for european cinema, particularly in terms of production, distribution and accessibility. the transition from analogue to digital should be carried out without delay, coordinated at national and european level and in the framework of a public/private partnership. the establishment of a european framework for the sector was urgently needed to ensure flexibility and transparency in the standardisation process, the digitisation of cinemas and the promotion of european cinema. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague piotr borys on european cinema in the digital age. the european parliament had not worked on this subject for more than a decade, while the film industry has undergone many changes in recent years with the advent of digital technology. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. it also seemed important to me to support the diversity of european film production and the cinema network - a true expression of the variety of european cultural identities - in particular by sustaining the media programme for the years to come.
in writing. the digital switchover is a major financial challenge for european cinemas, especially for the small independent cinemas that are very present in our territories. the latter are the guarantors of our european cultural diversity and the investments required for technical changes should not jeopardize their existence or restrict their programming. i welcome the report by piotr borys on european cinema in the digital age, which i supported. it is necessary to protect european cinemas and film productions. i particularly support the rapporteur's wish for financial support for investments in digitisation - particularly through the media programme and the structural funds - in independent cinemas or in sparsely populated areas, but also for film education from an early age and for the promotion of european cinema. i hope that these proposals will be heard in order to preserve the cultural and economic capital of our film production.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the member states to support european cinema in the face of the challenge of the digital age. the report stresses the socio-educational role of cinema and the need to preserve its diversity. the digital challenge must therefore benefit everyone. the good health of european cinema unfortunately benefits almost only the large multiplex cinemas and leaves the rest of the profession, which is mainly made up of small entities, in a highly fragile situation in a highly competitive environment. the small cinemas, particularly those of art and essai, as well as those in rural areas (the two are not incompatible) must therefore be protected by strong support from the states. it also aims to support 'film education' for the greatest number of people, in particular by facilitating the widest possible distribution of films within europe. it is also a call for better use of the europeana database for films and all multimedia media.
the european parliament has already defended the respect for net neutrality during the negotiations on the telecoms package. transparency in traffic management in congestion situations and a minimum quality of service are basic requirements, but the persistent blocking of content, as mentioned above, or of applications shows that they are no longer sufficient. we therefore recall the essential nature of the internet for fundamental rights and media pluralism and the need to guarantee confidentiality of communications and privacy. telecom operators can contribute to the recovery. they must be given the opportunity to invest and innovate in developing new services, but the quality of the basic internet as we know it must not be degraded in favour of paid services. we will oppose the creation of a two-speed internet that would discriminate against the most moderate income households, already heavily affected by the crisis. finally, if the conclusions of berec show that this is necessary, we will ask the commission to take up its responsibilities and produce a binding text guaranteeing net neutrality.
madam president, this european parliament resolution on net neutrality demonstrates our ability to fit in with the reality of the transformation from an industrial economy to a knowledge economy in which respect for our fundamental rights is crucial in every respect. we therefore welcome the spirit of this resolution, which considers the internet to be a new democratic space and recalls the importance of guaranteeing respect for the fundamental rights related to and dependent on net neutrality, such as freedom of expression, the protection of private data and media pluralism, of guaranteeing respect for the values of sharing and access to knowledge for the greatest number of people and of allowing no exceptions to the application of judicial procedures to ensure respect for these rights. we hope that this resolution will lead to the recognition and formal inclusion of the right of access to the internet as a fundamental right in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and we hope, finally, that this resolution will find an echo in the commission and the council for a strengthening of the european regulatory framework and above all its application in all the member states to really guarantee every european citizen a free and open internet.
author. - mr president, in the face of the extremely serious discrimination suffered by the roma, neither the european parliament, nor the european commission, nor even the council, i was going to say, have remained indifferent. the european parliament is known for its resolutions on the subject, the european commission set up a roma task force and presented a communication on the subject in april 2011, and the council adopted the european framework for a roma inclusion strategy at the level of each member state at the end of june. nevertheless, i feel that, of course, this text itself has weaknesses which were pointed out at the time, the weakness concerning the objectives set in the fight against antigypsyism and discrimination and then we now have, one month after the member states handed over their copy to the european commission, serious doubts about the energy that has been deployed by governments to include in the elaboration of these national strategies the actors, local and territorial authorities, ngos and the roma population themselves. but above all, i have the feeling that every day, in the press, in the testimonies, in the facts reported by the ngos, in the reports, extremely serious things are reported: violence and hateful demonstrations against the roma, violations of their freedom of movement, trivialization of anti-roma rhetoric in political circles, segregation in schools, forced expulsions, human trafficking, forced sterilizations of women. i believe that in the face of this, our positive, inclusive agenda must be absolutely matched by a very high degree of vigilance and a very high degree of demand. i believe that the european commission must use all the means at its disposal to be extremely firm in its role as guardian of the acquis communautaire and guardian of the treaties vis-à-vis the member states. i will give you an example: the mass expulsions that took place in france have just been condemned in the clearest possible terms as 'grave violations of human rights' by the council of europe, and the french government has taken for granted in its defence the decision of the european commission which, allegedly, had validated the expulsions as being in full compliance with community law. i think that this kind of argument cannot be used by the member states any more and that the commission really must be extremely firm. we too, ladies and gentlemen, believe that we must, in addition to our very important work, set up a monitoring group with the elected representatives of the national assemblies, in conjunction with the ngos, so that we can be much more effective in the fight against discrimination against the roma population.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are appalled by the renewed anti-gypsyism, particularly in the czech republic, hungary and bulgaria, but also, unfortunately, in some seats in this house, fuelled by the xenophobic rhetoric of a number of politicians. i would like to return to the french case. i'm sorry mrs. reding was not here. it is not your fault, commissioner, but i would have liked her to answer directly. it was indeed pleased, a few weeks ago, to see that france - i quote - "has fully responded to the commission's concerns and has made the required legislative changes", including, i quote again, "regarding the guarantees protecting citizens of the european union against arbitrary expulsions and discriminatory treatment". i would say that the council of europe has just clearly denied what mrs reding said. i would ask you, if you have not already done so, and mrs reding and the minister, to read the report of the european committee of social rights. some of my colleagues have already quoted him. this report gives an exhaustive account of the serious human rights violations committed by the french authorities during the summer of 2010 and which continue today in the same conditions. the commission was alerted and the ngos systematically brought these facts to the attention of the commission. they are found in full in the report and she refused to initiate infringement proceedings for discrimination, as was envisaged last autumn. will the commission wait for the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities? the charter of fundamental rights now has legal force. the commission is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties. what is the value of the anti-discrimination directive in such a context? how does the commission hope to develop national strategies in france under such conditions, madam commissioner? your services can't even identify a caller and they have to report back by the end of the year. it's a decoy, a way of postponing the problem... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, hungary, bulgaria, the czech republic, slovakia - the list is long: violent attacks, human trafficking, expulsions, sterilizations - the european union has been the victim of a series of attacks, including the murder of a young woman, who was then a victim of a terrorist attack. so while all this discrimination affects roma in many countries of the european union, i would like to remind you that the term "roma" also includes people who travel. travellers are not allowed to choose their accommodation, and evictions are common. in france, traffic books make them second-class citizens: unsanitary travel areas, no public transport, no garbage collection, no school pick-up, while the funds exist. last month, at dale farm, near london, the people on the trip had to fight to keep from being deported to basildon. in toulouse, where i live, like many other families, the family of frédéric levy, a frenchman who lives in a house, who owns his land, and all his children are in school, have just been ordered to demolish their home. so, madam commissioner, like my colleagues, i ask you very specifically: what pressure will you put on the member states, what concrete actions will you take to put an end to this intolerable discrimination?
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here today to discuss the roma and their integration. once again, we have to point out that neither europe nor the member states are doing enough to improve the situation of these marginalized populations. the persistence of situations of extreme poverty, exclusion and discrimination is a widely shared fact. but the action taken so far is still far from being enough. we know the answers to most of the problems. beyond the fight for equal treatment and against all discrimination, by fully implementing the acquis communautaire, it is the promotion of quality of life, inclusion and access to rights - especially for children - the fight against organised crime and trafficking in human beings, the effectiveness of women's rights, access for all children to quality education, the promotion of economic activity through training and integration through employment, the effective mobilisation of the community budget for concrete projects. we therefore need realistic plans, clear commitments and quantified targets from the member states to really assess progress. i would like to remind you, however, that it is useless to blame this or that authority or to look for scapegoats. everyone must roll up their sleeves, work together, and show by concrete action their political will to make progress, because integration is not only a right, it also entails duties. this means that each person must play his or her full role as a partner. it is up to us to find pragmatic answers to the essential questions. how can we develop real strategies? how can we effectively support project leaders? what concrete measures can europe propose?
mr president, as some of my colleagues have emphatically pointed out, the situation of the roma in europe is still a matter of concern. this raises the question of whether the european integration strategy launched by the commission, which leaves a great deal of room for manoeuvre to the member states, will make it possible to make real progress on discrimination and on the economic and social conditions of the roma. although the council of europe recently described the collective expulsions of roma in france since the summer of 2010 as discriminatory and contrary to human dignity, because based on ethnic origin, the expulsions continue. we know that they are absolutely useless, since the camps are being rebuilt with only a few wires and in even worse conditions. it is clear that the european commission's demonstrations of disapproval have not led to anything tangible. in this context, how can you assure us that the commission will take appropriate measures to punish the state which deviates from the european strategy and the objectives defined by the member states themselves? finally, because it is, in my view, a little easy to place the sole responsibility for the integration of roma on the countries of origin, i am counting on the commission to be firm also in relation to the host countries. all european states have a responsibility to play. this is certainly not the position that is most desirable at a time when european solidarity is being undermined. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to make sure that commissioner reding's determination is respected at this deadline. not only will it be necessary for the member states to hand in their copies by 10 december, but above all it will be necessary to ensure that the actual implementation of these strategies is monitored. we cannot simply pay each other with words.
author. - mr president, in the economic crisis we are going through, the need for budgetary discipline and balance is absolutely clear. but the consolidation of public finances is only a first, indispensable step, but a first step which must necessarily be supplemented by a second step, that of the competitiveness of the european union. to anticipate, to ensure economic growth, to maintain jobs, we must act quickly. it is essential to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and also to fulfil the objectives of the digital agenda. we cannot risk disappointment, as was the case with the lisbon strategy. the digital economy has enormous potential for growth. information and communication technologies have brought about a real revolution. in the united states, for example, digital books now outsell printed books. on the other hand, the european market is weak and fragmented, and this is partly due to indirect taxation. why would you do that? the legal framework today excludes digital cultural goods, because they are considered to be services. if i take the example of the book, the paper book has a vat rate of 5.5, whereas the digital book has a normal vat rate which is never less than 15%. i would add that for the visually impaired, who represent several million european citizens, the digital book has been a real revelation and a revolution. so this tax discrimination is detrimental to the digital single market. i think the americans understood this much earlier than we did, since president clinton took the initiative in 1998 to decide on a moratorium, which he renewed three times, under which the federal states could not provide for a higher vat rate for all goods in electronic commerce. the result, as we can see today, is that this digital market is completely dominated, precisely, by the americans. i therefore believe that the european union must quickly implement measures to achieve these objectives, and in this case it is a matter of introducing a reduced vat rate for all digital cultural goods. in this way, the costs of legal tendering will be reduced. by reducing costs, it becomes much more accessible to citizens. it also means more diversity for consumers. it's the way to fight piracy. by expanding the legal supply and making it more accessible, it is clear that the temptation to digital piracy will decrease; in addition, the tax revenues of the states will only increase as consumption will expand. the last point i would like to make is that this digital single market must benefit all member states. to achieve this, i ask the commission to bring forward the change in the place of collection of vat that was planned on 1 january 2015, so that vat is levied in the country where the property is purchased, instead of the country of the seller's registered office. i believe that if we succeed in implementing at least these fiscal measures quickly, the digital single market can only grow. we are still far behind the united states, but i have explained, and i believe that we have no choice, that we absolutely must act today and make this alignment in such a way as to avoid, and end, this discrimination on digital cultural property.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate the rapporteur, my friend jean březina, who has done an excellent job. the european council of 4 february 2011, known as the european energy council, set out an ambitious european energy policy aimed at giving the people of europe the assurance that they will have secure, sustainable, best-priced energy with a guaranteed supply and contributing to european competitiveness. this policy, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy, provides for investment in the development of low-carbon technologies. nuclear fission and fusion are among the energy technologies which we europeans must maintain, develop and implement. we must do so, especially since we have an unchallenged and recognized leadership in the world through our companies, our universities, our engineers, our skilled workers and our research centres. i would like to congratulate the european commission, dear mrs geoghegan-quinn, for making this proposal so quickly, on 7 march 2011, before the fukushima tragedy. i would like to support this proposal for five reasons. first, it brings the timetables of the research programmes into line with the financial perspective for 2007-13. secondly, it emphasizes safety, which is an essential element of the confidence that the operators of this energy owe to our fellow citizens. we welcome the fact that the union can continue to invest in the field of security, which is evolving in line with scientific progress and the expectations of our citizens. thirdly, it allows us to maintain our world leading position in nuclear science. fourthly, we support our universities, our research centres and in particular - i want to emphasise this - the joint european research centre, which are all doing a remarkable job. finally, it will help to cover part of the cost of financing the iter project, which will demonstrate the industrial feasibility of electricity production by nuclear fusion. this will enable us to meet our international commitments to our partners in the iter project: china, the united states, russia, japan and south korea. we support you and thank you.
<speakertype>. this is the default.
member of the commission. mr. kumutsako, i want to thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had and for all that you have contributed to the subject under discussion. i could have signed off on everything you said today. this is only a first step, but the beginning is certainly important. madam president, this is a very important moment for our integrated maritime policy (imp). while money is not the only issue, this is a start: we have had a difficult year of negotiations and now we have the possibility of the imp being provided with its own financial base. so i'm very pleased that we have come this far. what we are talking about from now on is no longer a fledgling policy but an independent policy, and that is the most important aspect of this discussion. we now have a free-standing maritime policy that can tap the economic potential of the sea, can boost growth and jobs and can contribute to the goals of the europe 2020 strategy. i have already thanked mr koumoutsakos, but i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the fisheries committee and the other committees for their contributions, which have enabled us to come this far. let me stress once again that your support for this package today will help us deliver concrete results tomorrow and that is what we aim to do. until now we have been relying on the preparatory actions and pilot projects that we had put forward in 2008, but these could be financed only until the end of 2010. your support today will ensure that the ongoing initiatives do not have to be stopped midway, before they can actually bear fruit. the negotiations we have been holding with you and the council have led us to extend the operational objectives but, above all, they have helped us in the commission to understand your expectations better: they have made it crystal clear that we should give priority only to actions of a truly integrated nature which cannot be funded elsewhere. so this is how we intend to use this amount of money: eur 40 million is not a large sum, but we are going to fund only projects which cannot be funded elsewhere, including in the fields of maritime spatial planning, maritime surveillance and marine knowledge. we intend to take a sea-basin approach: we are going to develop sea-basin strategies and cross-cutting tools that will help coastal communities and regions to expand their economies. if this regulation is adopted, the commission will shortly propose a work programme detailing the specific actions we intend to launch, based on the general and operational objectives defined in the regulation for 2011-2013. in conclusion, this compromise package seems well balanced both in terms of policy expectations and in terms of the means provided for effective and timely delivery. i certainly look forward to hearing your views in the debate because i think we can work together.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - madam president, i would like to speak on behalf of my colleague, mr dominique riquet, member of the committee on budgets, who would like to start by welcoming the work done by mr georgios koumoutsakos on this matter. i believe that we can all welcome the consensus that has been reached both within the european institutions and the various political groups on the need to ensure the future development of the integrated maritime policy. by continuing the exploratory work begun through preparatory actions and pilot projects, we are ensuring that the european union's maritime ambitions are reflected in all the sectors concerned: environment, transport, energy, research, industry, fisheries and regional policy. beyond this support and because the integrated maritime policy is bound to prosper, there is a need to ensure better management of expenditure in this area. in this respect, the conclusions of the trilogue seem to me to be a good compromise. the proposed budget of €40 million for the period 2011-13 does not jeopardise the financing of other policies and a report on the state of play of the integrated maritime policy is also planned for mid-december 2012. i would like to say on behalf of my colleague, mr riquet, that we simply regret that the european parliament is not being involved more in the preparation of the work programme for this policy, which will be adopted by means of an implementing act. finally, we must now ensure that its financing is secured in the next multiannual financial framework.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the immense potential of the sea is a decisive factor in the european union's competitiveness, particularly in the areas of sustainable development, maritime and land security and energy and food supply, which are also objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. new and innovative sectors are being combined with the traditional maritime sectors of fisheries and shipping. these new sectors include, for example, the creation of offshore wind farms, investment in wave energy technologies, marine aquaculture and what is known as blue technology. we can therefore say that the integrated maritime policy is considered a key priority for the sustainable growth of the european union. the integrated maritime policy promotes synergies between all the european union's policies relating to the oceans, seas and thus the european coastline. this policy should be reflected in the strengthening of coordinated action between the various areas of the sme and in a better cost-effectiveness of investments in the maritime sector. this is why imp needs to be properly funded and implemented swiftly to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. on this report on the integrated maritime policy, our rapporteur maria patrão neves, who cannot be here today, had the pleasure of working with our colleague georgios koumoutsakos, who spoke earlier. i thank them both, they did a great job. they were based on pilot projects and preparatory actions related to the imp that were completed at the end of 2010. it is important to ensure that funding for these actions continues until 2013. from 2013, the imp will have to rely on a specific financial instrument: the emff. this report provides the pmi with a stable financial framework for 2011-12 with a budget of 40 million, as commissioner damanaki has pointed out, which we hope will be sufficient to achieve a wide range of objectives related to the development of european maritime inter-sectoral activities.
in writing. the maritime space is changing. the main issues are: the need for the different uses to coexist; the commission has also proposed that the cfp should be extended to include the development of fisheries-related jobs, which should be an objective of the cfp, as well as the strengthening of maritime freight, the extraordinary industrial potential of offshore wind energy and the development of tourism. no policy without a budget; we must therefore ensure that the integrated maritime policy is included in the future multiannual financial framework. but i would say that to ensure the success of this policy, we must above all get the member states to join in. this policy requires cross-sectoral but also transnational cooperation. however, in the channel, transnational collaboration is declining. after ten years of joint french-british funding of a rescue and aid tug, the british government, in the name of austerity, decided to privatise its coastguard services, thus undermining the security of this sea passage, one of the busiest in the world, which is suffering the difficult consequences of the lack of a shared vision. a european-wide integrated maritime policy must therefore be based on synergy between national maritime policies, a synergy reinforced by european ambition, which itself has sufficient financial resources.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lövin, on her excellent work. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development, i am pleased that the committee on fisheries has taken up the elements contained in our opinion, because it is crucial that the development dimension be taken into account in measures to combat illegal fishing at world level in the name of political coherence and close links with development policy. the fight against illegal fishing requires comprehensive solutions and the involvement of all states, including developing countries. however, it is necessary that the technical and financial capacities of the states should also be taken into account in the actions to be carried out. the same constraints cannot be imposed on developed or developing countries without accompanying measures. small island states, for example, have very limited capacities. we must therefore support them in their efforts to combat illegal fishing. the union will therefore have to increase the financial envelope for the fisheries sector when it concludes agreements in this field in developing countries. in addition, it is crucial that measures to combat illegal fishing are implemented, as this practice harms the development of countries by reducing the financial resources that these countries could derive from the economic activity of fishing. these resources are needed by developing countries to implement social, economic and educational policies. finally, it is important that the european union, when implementing these measures to combat illegal fishing in developing countries, should promote the involvement of civil society and businesses alongside the recipient states. a holistic approach is needed to tackle the scourge of illegal fishing.
mr president, i would like to say that the european union is the world's leading maritime power, largely thanks to its outermost regions. this is a major asset for europe, and the development and implementation of a major policy on the seas, oceans and seabed is essential for the future. but i am afraid that 20 or 50 million euros will not be enough to meet this great challenge. the fight against illegal fishing is part of this larger policy and it is urgent that an adequate solution be found at european level, particularly in the framework of international cooperation. i would also point out that the maritime zones of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, mayotte and réunion are regularly violated and looted. as the report does not mention this, i take this opportunity to draw the attention of my colleagues and the commission to this particular problem.
in writing. as the only international judicial body responsible for prosecuting people accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, the international criminal court ensures respect for human rights and contributes to maintaining security in the world and to combating impunity. the issuance of arrest warrants against seif al-islam gaddafi, one of the sons of the former libyan dictator, and the former head of libyan intelligence has paid off: both will be tried by the icc and libya. this shows the importance of the court. i therefore voted in favour of the kreissl-dörfler report.
in writing. this report was adopted by the committee on foreign affairs. it presents two basic ideas. firstly, the report recalls that the international criminal court is the first permanent international judicial body competent to try persons accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes and that it thus makes a decisive contribution to the protection of human rights and international law by fighting impunity. finally, the report recalls that the fight against impunity will only be successful if all states parties cooperate fully with the icc and if non-state parties provide assistance to the judicial institution. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in favour of an integrated maritime policy at european level, i voted in favour of the koumoutsakos report. an integrated maritime policy would allow for collective action in the management and governance of oceans, seas and coasts. since member states face common challenges (climate change, technological innovation, illegal fishing, the creation of a common maritime area, etc.), the eu needs to take common action in this area (sustainable exploitation of maritime waters, sharing of knowledge) while remaining competitive and effective.
in writing. the eu has 320 000 km of coastline. one third of our citizens live on the coast. our economic activities at sea and on the coast account for 40% of eu gdp and all forecasts indicate that the potential for growth remains strong. in addition, about 40% of trade in goods within europe is carried out by sea. these figures illustrate the importance of the eu's coasts, seas and oceans, which is why this programme aims to provide an integrated approach to the management and governance of these areas and to strengthen the interaction between all eu policies relating to the sea. i have supported this programme so that the eu's integrated maritime policy will have, with this regulation, a specific line in the union's budget, which, following negotiations with the council, will amount to eur 40 million. promoting the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, while supporting economic and sustainable 'blue' growth in terms of employment and technological development in all sectors of the maritime economy and in coastal, island and outermost regions, is what we will need to implement through this programme.
in writing. i voted for the koumoutsakos report on the integrated maritime policy. this regulation will allow for the efficient financing of maritime policy initiatives in 2012 and 2013. for the period after 2013, maritime policy will be integrated into the maritime and fisheries fund (mff), on which i am rapporteur.
in writing. with five million europeans living from activities generated by the sea - shipbuilding, shipping, port activities, fishing, energy production, coastal tourism - interaction with the sea is intense, varied and rewarding. we must therefore adopt an integrated approach to the governance of these areas and thus strengthen the interaction between all the european union's policies relating to the sea. the eu's integrated maritime policy must also have a specific line in the union's budget. we have a duty to promote the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, while supporting economic and sustainable blue growth.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to establish a programme to support the development of an integrated maritime policy. the committee on transport and tourism adopted this report, which is mainly aimed at supporting the development and implementation of maritime basin strategies, promoting the protection of the marine environment, including its biodiversity, and supporting economic and sustainable 'blue' growth. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the agenda of the european parliament. here again, it was mentioned during the vote on the extension of the euratom framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for more diversification is all the greater because, while the cost of the iter project has increased exponentially since its launch in 2006, from eur 6 billion to eur 16 billion, i believe that the project must now continue with the resources at its disposal! if research - both fusion and fission - is a good thing (even if it needs to be diversified), i deeply regret the increase in appropriations (another €700,000 for 2012) and the financial tinkering that is planned which would lead to emptying part of the european research budget to finance iter alone. in addition, budget cuts are planned in the field of research, which will only worsen the imbalance between research expenditure on nuclear energy and that on renewable energies! for these reasons i voted against the březina reports on the euratom research framework programme.
in writing. i have supported a european parliament resolution on the eu-us summit to be held in washington on 28 november. the summit will provide an opportunity for the us and eu to discuss the global and eurozone crises, climate change in preparation for the durban conference, and the arab spring and their support for the democratic transition. the european parliament also calls on the eu and the us to launch a transatlantic initiative for jobs and growth.
in writing. the eu-us cooperation is that of two economic giants which should be strengthened, especially in a context of crisis. the resolution, adopted ahead of the 28 november summit, calls on the eu and the us to work together to implement the g20 commitments, particularly on jobs and growth. it underlines the importance of our cooperation in the energy field. it also welcomed the progress made in the area of freedom and security, in particular with regard to the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to strengthen transatlantic cooperation in the context of the economic and social crisis affecting our two continents. on the more specific question of security and the fight against terrorism, i believe that we must try to convince our american partner of the merits of an approach which is proportionate, which leaves no room for arbitrariness and which is more respectful of individual freedoms, unlike the approach advocated so far by the united states. it is with this kind of approach in particular that we must approach the continuation of the negotiations on a european union-us pnr agreement.
in writing. i supported this resolution in plenary because the transatlantic partnership is a driving force for the entire world economy. i regret, however, that there is no mention of international trade. the united states is indeed intensifying its protectionist policies. one example: the passing of the buy american act a few months ago. this us legislation requires companies bidding for a public contract to use only us materials. the united states and the european union are both members of the wto's agreement on government markets, which prohibits such practices. with other colleagues we recently asked the us authorities how this legislation will affect european businesses. we await a clear and complete response and will remain vigilant as to any further action to be taken in this regard. the transatlantic partnership is working well, it is important and beneficial for both economies. we will not allow this crisis to destroy the good relations that they have.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it makes cooperation and the relationship between the eu and the us the alpha and omega of the conduct of international relations. this resolution is moving between good intentions and pious wishes, in disagreement or in contradiction with the declarations of the eu or the united states, but above all with the principles and values displayed and constantly contradicted by the acts. this resolution reaches new heights in terms of the eu and us responses to the financial crisis, welcoming the latest g20 and in terms of data protection, as with the pnr agreement which tramples on european principles and law in this area. the acta agreement has been ignored, as has the durban climate change conference! the credibility of transatlantic relations must be based on new political foundations and must first of all turn its back on a bilateral vision in which the west rules the world, imposes its choices and is unable to apply on its own territory the values of human rights and freedoms which it claims to impose on the world, including by military force.
in writing. there are many obstacles in the internet domain, such as the prioritization of traffic according to price. these obstacles are often orchestrated by the operators themselves for commercial purposes. in fact, parliament adopted a resolution, which i supported, in favour of an open and neutral internet. in accordance with the principle of competition, consumers must be able to choose freely their operator at reasonable prices. the protection of personal data must also be guaranteed.
in writing. the internet is an important part of the daily lives of european citizens. it is therefore right that it should be regulated in accordance with the principles of neutrality and openness, as is the case with the telecommunications sector. healthy competition must be applied in this area if european consumers are to benefit from the best available services. the commission must also be attentive to the quality of internet traffic management and ensure that connections are not disrupted by network congestion. in order to respect fundamental rights, the commission will have to ensure that internet service providers cannot block, disadvantage, affect or reduce the ability of anyone to use a service to access, use, transmit, post, receive or offer any content, application or service made available via the internet - with the obvious exception of child pornography sites.
in writing. i supported the resolution on net neutrality because it is a balanced text, which recalls the commitments made under the telecoms package and which emphasises consumer protection, particularly in terms of switching providers or access to information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. however, i regret the economic approach of the resolution, the lack of reference to the acta negotiations and above all the ambiguity of the resolution as to the possible interpretation of restrictions by operators on mobile internet access in the event of network congestion. the resolution reaffirms various principles, such as freedom of expression, respect for privacy and warns of the risks to the promotion and respect of human rights in the use and access to the internet. we must be vigilant with the ngos and ensure that any new community legislation is evaluated swiftly and that the european commission legislates if this is the conclusion of this study. together we must uphold and respect this political commitment of the european parliament to a free, neutral and democratic internet.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution in which the european parliament reiterates its support for the convention on cluster munitions, which prohibits states parties from using cluster munitions because of their irreversible consequences, which primarily affect civilians. parliament called on the commission and the council to introduce a clause prohibiting the use of such weapons, as is already the case for weapons of mass destruction, in agreements with third countries.
in writing. digital is a growth-enhancing sector for the european economy and contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the european parliament's resolution on the modernisation of vat legislation, which was tabled by my colleague marielle gallo and which i supported, provides for measures to stimulate the digital single market, such as a reduction in vat on cultural goods. for example, digital books should benefit from a reduced rate as paper books.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of modernising the vat legislation on digital cultural goods. in the difficult economic times we are living through, the first priority is to combat deficits and a reduction in vat on any category of products does not go in that direction. digital cultural goods differ from 'classical' cultural goods, particularly when it comes to books: the production costs (material, staff) of digital books are much lower than those of paper books. finally, a lower vat rate on cultural goods could contribute to a further fall in purchases of paper books, a sector which is already experiencing considerable difficulties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the modernisation of vat legislation because it stresses the need to strengthen the european digital market and to put an end to the shortcomings identified that are hampering its growth. a particularly important point for me is the possibility of reducing the vat rate for online cultural services (tv, books, magazines, music, newspapers) so that they can benefit from a more favourable tax regime, similar to that of their 'paper' versions, and thus put an end to the discriminatory treatment of services according to the medium used (electronic or physical).
in writing. the digital revolution, combined with globalisation and the acceleration of trade, is forcing us to rethink our cultural and economic model. with the internet and digital technologies, cultural works can benefit from tremendous dissemination tools if we can adapt the regulatory framework of the single market. however, the development of the digital book in europe, for example, lags far behind its international competitors. european legislation prohibits reduced vat rates for services provided by electronic means. the minimum vat rate is 15%, while the physical book may be subject to rates of up to 5%. we end up with a system where the transaction details matter more than the content. but a book is a book! the disparities in taxation create distortions which are all detrimental to the competitiveness of european enterprises. americans have long had a competitive advantage. will europe react? i'm aware that public money is running short. however, if we do nothing, we will not only miss our appointment with the digital future, but we will also be deprived of a lever for growth, competitiveness, cultural diversity, and employment.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on the modernisation of vat legislation to boost the digital single market. this modernisation is based solely on reducing vat on cultural goods sold in the digital space and subject to low consumption. unfortunately, this proposal is not based on the idea of the distribution of works as a public service for the greatest number of people, nor even on the logic of vat as an unfair tax that must be reduced to reduce the burden on the incomes of the poorest. instead, this resolution is based on the desire to stimulate a digital single market, treating cultural goods as any other marketable goods. the negotiators who put the compromise in place did not even dare to address our political group.
in writing. convinced that the european neighbourhood policy contributes to the strengthening of democratic principles and good governance and stability in our immediate neighbourhood, i voted in favour of the lisek report. under the european neighbourhood policy, the eu is linked to a number of countries, including georgia, by action plans. the association agreements are the first step in bringing them closer together. parliament recommended that the negotiations be based on the establishment of the rule of law, the gradual establishment of a free trade area, the preservation of the territorial integrity of the country and the de-escalation of russian-georgian relations.
in writing. this report was adopted by the committee on foreign affairs. it reiterated georgia's commitment to democratic values, which are essential to the success of the negotiations and the proper implementation of the association agreement. nevertheless, georgia must continue its efforts, particularly in the areas of good governance and respect for human rights. it is a good report, and i have decided to support it.
in writing. enshrined in article 2 of the lisbon treaty, gender equality is a fundamental principle. in his report, mr gustafsson calls on the european parliament to promote this principle in all its policies and activities. the report highlights the need to increase the representation of women in parliament's decision-making bodies as one of the priorities. as president of the association "women at the centre", i am deeply committed to respect for gender equality. i therefore supported the resolution.
in writing. i voted against the report on an integrated approach to gender equality in the work of the european parliament. throughout my political career i have been a constant campaigner for equality between men and women. this report presents some interesting ideas, and it is essential to continue to affirm the importance of gender mainstreaming in public policies to contribute to gender equality. however, i could not reasonably support article 12 which gives disproportionate attention to transgender people in european policies. i'm all for tolerance. it is not appropriate for the european parliament to commit human and financial resources to the evaluation of european policies on transgender people at the present time. so i had to oppose the report.
in writing. as the world's largest market for fishery products, the eu is the first to be affected by illegal fishing. globally, 15% of marine catches are considered illegal. however, in a context of declining fish stocks at sea and the gradual degradation of the marine ecosystem, it is important that the eu takes a leading role in international debates and proposes strong measures to combat illegal fishing. these measures will include increased transparency to better detect undeclared vessels. it is imperative that the eu respects its own rules (respect for fishing quotas) in order to set an example and lead to convergence of good practice at international level.
in writing. i voted for the lövin report on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. this report makes concrete proposals to combat this scourge at world level, particularly within international organisations such as fao. the report also proposes to improve the traceability of seafood, in particular through the use of catch certificates for fish sold on the international market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on illegal fishing worldwide because its objective is unquestionable. illegal fishing is unfair competition for legal fishing and is often accompanied by dramatic social conditions. there is no international framework today to share common standards. it is therefore essential that the european union should be a force for good in the bodies of which it is a member. in the forthcoming cfp debates, however, i will be vigilant on the issue of sanctions, which is raised in this report. the resolution calls for the withdrawal of european subsidies for offenders. this proposal will require consultation with local stakeholders before it can be considered. the entry into force of the point permit is also welcomed, which i cannot support in the current implementation arrangements. in addition, in view of the recent decision by the uk government to stop subsidising security in the channel, i have made it clear in this report that the union would need to improve its own functioning, in particular by creating a european coast guard service, for better coordination and greater efficiency in our actions.
in writing. this report was adopted by the committee on fisheries. this is an important report because illegal fishing is one of the most serious threats to biodiversity. the report calls on the european union and the member states' control authorities to provide themselves with sufficient resources (human, financial and technical) to be able to fully combat illegal fishing. the report also calls on the commission to identify and sanction operators who violate eu legislation, to create a european coastguard function, to guarantee the full and effective traceability of fishery products and to increase the resources allocated to the fight against corruption and organised crime. i supported this report in the vote in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which reaffirms our commitment to make the union a leader in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. as the leading importer of maritime products and with one of the largest fleets in the world, i am convinced that the union must set an example to rally the entire international community. since two thirds of the world's marine areas are located on the high seas and are beyond national jurisdiction, only a global and concerted solution can be effective. iuu fishing represents more than 15% of catches and threatens the sustainable management of fisheries resources and the whole sector. however, the instruments to combat this scourge already exist within the united nations food and agriculture organisation (fao) and the union. i therefore regret that the only thing lacking today is the political will to apply them in a general and responsible manner. it's up to us to act now to save our oceans. all actors must contribute to this effort: fao member states by respecting their commitments but also citizens by consuming these dwindling resources responsibly.
author. - mr president, today we are considering a resolution on iran in the context of the emergency resolutions for the sixth time since the beginning of the parliamentary term and for the third time since the beginning of the year. i will support this resolution, the terms of which i of course share. but i will once again attack the double standard prevailing in this house in the field of human rights. all over the world, men, women and children are being arrested, tortured and executed, but in many countries this is done in oppressive silence, including that of the european parliament. i would like to give an example: this morning a 27-year-old tunisian was executed in iraq. he claimed to be innocent until the end, and his father says his confession was extracted under torture. the other 52 were sentenced at the same time as him and are awaiting execution overnight in iraq, as the iraqi president has confirmed their sentences. on iraq, the european parliament has not voted a single resolution since july 2009. my dear colleagues, i leave you to judge.
author. - mr president, many of us in this house have welcomed what has come to be known as the arab spring, but revolutions do not take the same form everywhere. the tunisians have just elected their constituent assembly in a democratic framework that no one has contested and the democratic transition seems well underway. unfortunately, it is the only country in which we can be optimistic. in libya, there is talk of introducing sharia law, in syria, men and women are being murdered every day, and in egypt, we can only worry. more than 12,000 civilians have been brought before military courts since march 2011, according to ngos. on october 30, this was the case of mr. alaa abdel fatah, a blogger who was already imprisoned under mubarak. his counterpart, maikel nabil sanad, suffered the same fate. these two men have in common that they refused to cooperate with military tribunals. they are symbols of the right of the egyptian people to civil justice. they are symbols of the repression still being inflicted on those who criticize the regime, especially its military. without the right to a fair trial, without freedom of speech, there can be no democracy. ten days before the elections in egypt, we must therefore send a strong message to the egyptian authorities that they should effectively guarantee the rights of all their fellow citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, respect for democratic values and human rights is a cornerstone in the relations between the european union and its neighbours. article 2 of the association agreement between the european union and egypt stipulates that the relations between the parties should be based on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights. these include, of course, freedom of religion or belief, freedom of association, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the commission as a whole, i would like to emphasise that the broadening and reactivation of the emergency law in egypt and its extension during the forthcoming elections are matters of concern, particularly in relation to respect for freedom of expression, the importance of a functioning civilian justice system and the right to be tried in accordance with international standards. the need to ensure civil order is legitimate but it should be consistent with the international covenant on civil and political rights and other international instruments. that is our position. it should not hamper the spirit and expectations of the ‘25 january revolution’ nor the aspiration of the egyptian people for genuine and democratic elections. unfortunately, the eu offer of election observation has been turned down by the egyptian authorities: they consider international election observation as interference in domestic affairs. nevertheless, the eu will provide election assistance through the training of several thousand domestic election monitors and capacity-building activities for the high electoral commission. the egyptian authorities must lift the emergency law as soon as possible. that is the high representative’s position and the position of the commission as a whole. under the emergency law, detention is possible even without a trial. this provision has been applied to blogger alaa abdel fatah, who is accused of having incited violence against the armed forces and of having assaulted military personnel in front of the maspero state tv building on 9 october 2011. military trials of civilians deny the accused the full measure of the law available in civilian courts. regrettably, the promise made on 15 september 2011 by the supreme council of the armed forces to stop referring civilians to military courts was not kept. the eu is constantly raising its concerns about the emergency law and the trial of civilians before military courts, including in the specific cases of alaa abdel fatah and maikel nabil sanad. in this context, the eu has raised serious concerns about the possible interpretation of the exceptions under which the military trials may continue.
in writing. i am particularly concerned about the information coming from egypt. for several weeks, many journalists, bloggers, civil society activists and human rights activists have been intimidated or even prosecuted for their writings, statements or activities. having shown responsibility and courage in the peaceful demonstrations that led to the departure of president hosni mubarak, they must be able to freely exercise the fundamental rights for which they stood up, such as freedom of expression, freedom of association and the right to assemble. the supreme council of the armed forces must refrain from prosecuting civilians before military courts, otherwise it will jeopardize the democratic transition under way. i therefore call on the egyptian authorities to ensure that fundamental rights are respected as the electoral process approaches, which will take several months. the army that was on the side of the people during the revolution must continue to be on the side of the people and help build the new egypt.
mr president, have i understood correctly or not? is the vote tomorrow at 2 p.m.?
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the polish presidency on its dynamism and willingness to act. at the council next week our heads of state and government will have to take decisions which are essential for the future of the euro area, for the future of the union. they will also have to deal seriously with the resumption of growth. that said, we can see that financial stability has now become the top priority and that the pressures and tensions that are exerted from outside on the euro area countries, but also within the euro area, are ruining our credibility and undermining confidence. the hope of restoring confidence lies in restoring financial stability and breaking the terrible rise in national deficits and sovereign debts. financial stability has therefore become the first priority and a burning obligation for all. our democracies have all embarked on very courageous programmes to clean up their public finances, to reduce their debt, and financial stability is also a prerequisite for any recovery in growth. however, when we say financial stability, budgetary discipline - because they go hand in hand - we also have to say solidarity. it seems to me important to ensure that this dual movement of financial stability, budgetary discipline and solidarity is maintained. one last word on democracy. be careful not to disrespect our democratic institutions. rather than thinking of resorting to a judicial mechanism, for example, to punish in the case of budgetary irregularities, let us think instead of mechanisms of control and sanctions exercised by democratic institutions. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
to be quite frank, i am not the spokesman for the french foreign minister and, although i belong to the same political group as him, i am not always in a position to relay the statements of the french foreign minister. to be quite frank again, i am not aware of any recent statements by alain juppé to this effect. i simply think that france's current position is to affirm, and to re-affirm again and again, that the euro is truly the heart of our european construction, that safeguarding the euro means safeguarding this common project and safeguarding the european union, and that, in this movement to safeguard the euro, we must of course think about the future, think about protecting the young generations and preserving peace on our continent.
in writing. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i am a convinced european, a europeanist as we often say. and that is why i will be voting in favour of croatia's accession to the european union, which is due to take place in early 2013. we are on our way to welcoming other countries that are close to us, like iceland. but let us not let our quest for enlargement become a flight forward. we must deepen the construction of europe. to create even more 'solidarity in fact', as one of the founding fathers put it. a weak europe will be nothing more than an association of states bound by a common market. it's not the idea that i'm worried about. the crisis shows us the way forward, particularly in terms of economic and budgetary governance. let us take advantage of these moments to think about the solutions we want to bring to save europe.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, in dealing with this report, parliament is dealing with the question of democratic legitimacy when we talk about economic policy. at a time when everyone is wondering how economic policy will be dealt with and what the next council summit will do with economic policy for the euro area countries, it is important that this european parliament should take a stand to establish what would be the democratic legitimacy of the discussion of a coordinated economic policy at european level. the european commission has launched the idea of a european semester to guide this debate before it takes place in national parliaments. we believe that in the context of this european semester, around the annual growth review which the european commission is putting on the table as the founding document of this discussion, we as the european parliament must be able to intervene. we believe that this document should be a guideline for economic policy and that is why we propose that in future the commission should call this document what it is, namely not an annual growth review but a guideline for economic policy for sustainable growth. otherwise, we can see that the coordination of economic policies at the level of heads of state and government would take place in a completely different framework, for example in a pact for the euro plus, or in whatever other procedure they might invent tomorrow. no, we need a document from the commission to guide this discussion, which takes account of both the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on the one hand and, of course, the stability pact. we therefore also ask that this european parliament be able to intervene immediately with quasi-co-decision powers before the spring european council, and that the president of this institution, when he represents us at the spring european council, be able to defend, on the basis of the mandate we will give him, amendments to this strategy, to this economic policy orientation. we also ask that in future these powers be recognised as explicit powers of co-decision. in the whole process, we believe that our cooperation with the national parliaments must absolutely contribute to the foundation of this democratic legitimacy. this means that in february, before the spring european council, we must - on the basis of what has already happened and what is to be developed in this parliament at the initiative of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but also in association with other committees, such as the committee on employment, the committee on budgets and the committee on the internal market - organise this meeting with the national parliaments to discuss with them what this economic policy direction will be. we must then, after the european council, perhaps in a smaller format, organise a new exchange at the time when the national parliaments themselves must approve the national reform programmes. finally, we believe that this parliament will of course have to adapt to this new situation if it is to be able to play a part in this debate which is the basis for the democratic legitimacy of the whole process. we know that our pace and our practices will have to be adapted to what is being implemented both at council and commission level, and we say with this report that we are ready to do so. finally, as regards the still uncertain prospect of a possible revision of the treaty, we say emphatically that this parliament, following the treaty of lisbon, has rights which make it an indispensable actor in a revision of the treaties. we have already been consulted once on the revision of the treaty to set up the european stability mechanism, and at that time we authorized that revision without a convention. we are now saying that, in view of the issues that could potentially be discussed, we will not accept such a revision without a convention. it will be necessary to discuss with this parliament both the timing and the content of such a review, which could not be reduced to a referral to the court of justice to transform economic policy into competition policy. we want this mandate to be a mandate that allows us to establish what is the basis of the economic policy of the european union, a policy of solidarity and growth based on democratic legitimacy. we also ask that this parliament and the national parliaments be associated by means of a convention as regards the method. this is the added value of the european union, its democratic legitimacy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mrs pervenche berès on this remarkable report, the result of several months' work, which brought together nine parliamentary committees. in the committee on the internal market, catherine stihler's opinion emphasised the central role of the single market, the economic pillar of the union, at the heart of governance in the pursuit of sustainable, inclusive and social growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and for the benefit of all our citizens. but to meet this challenge, we must ensure that the european semester is not just an intergovernmental control system imposing the dictates of certain council members on national parliaments. parliamentary consent to the public budget is one of the foundations of democracy. the annual growth reviews must therefore be adopted by codecision, in close cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments. it is a democratic requirement and we must be uncompromising.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i think that the work that has just been done deserves to be highlighted and deserves to be taken into account for what it is. the work that has been done is a very good collaborative effort around the rapporteur, mrs berès, and i believe that the vote tomorrow will show that it expresses the will of the very large majority of this parliament. why is that? because what is at stake is democratic control of the procedures that tend to improve economic integration and cooperation between states. of course, parliament does not claim to be an executive, nor does it claim to replace the national parliaments, but each has its own role to play at its own level. the merit of this own-initiative report, which is perhaps a little longer than usual, is that it proposes concrete solutions for this association, taking two viewpoints. first, the current treaty and the current rules. the rapporteur makes proposals for better involvement of parliament in democratic control. but the report also takes into account the possibility of amending the treaties and indicates at that time the improvements or amendments that should be made to ensure that effective, democratic control which ensures the legitimacy of the measures taken and negotiated at european and national level. i would like to return to two specific points that were raised a moment ago: the subcommittee on the euro. we have given up on this so as not to create disparities between members, but this report rightly indicates that, when the time comes, parliament will have to adapt according to the organisation of the member states within the council or within the euro area. there is also the question of quasi-legislative, quasi-co-decision making. pragmatically, we must, as soon as the annual growth review is held, put in place a mechanism which will enable parliament to give its opinion, to vote on amendments and, as the rapporteur said earlier, to ensure that our president has a genuine democratic mandate.
mr president, whatever most of the speakers in the majority say, the european semester is a highly undemocratic exercise. the report by mrs berès can only provide a fiction of improvement. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. when, moreover, in the event of non-compliance with the quantified objectives of the stability pact or with the recommendations made to each state, the sanction procedures are automated, we are no longer in coordination, my dear colleagues, we are in subordination, and in subordination by compulsion to the policies of absolute competition, of free world trade, of budgetary, social and wage rigidity which leaves no room for the revival of the european economy. the people are now administered, as in greece, italy and elsewhere, by technicians, by the power bases of goldman sachs, and this exercise which you propose is in reality highly undemocratic.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i should like to begin by replying to mrs vicky ford, who has left us. it is surprising that a british member of parliament should be concerned that a parliament should be concerned about democratic legitimacy. this is not like the idea of democracy i have in the united kingdom. i also want to tell him that the reason why we insist so much on the european parliament having a co-decision role in defining its economic policy guidelines is that we believe that, beyond budgetary consolidation, this is one of the ways in which our concerns in terms of growth, in terms of financing the needs of innovation, research and investment in the industrial sector, can be taken into account. mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your insistence on the community method and to say that, of course, if the member states are sovereign, we must also take account of the lessons of this crisis. one of the lessons of this crisis is that the ex ante coordination of the economic policies of the member states has not worked well enough. in order for it to function well, on an acceptable, democratic basis, in keeping with the nature of the community institution, i would ask you and your successors, on behalf of the danish presidency, to take the utmost account of the comments which this parliament will make on the annual growth survey 2012. commissioner, you said that you did not want this exercise to be described as technocratic. it is up to us to make it a political exercise to guide economic policy. i believe that this report contributes to this and i hope, commissioner, that you will be with us to improve the procedure and to ensure that the council actually takes account of the observations which this european parliament will make. we shall be back at the february part-session with comments on the substance, so that together we can be more effective.
in writing. the introduction of the half-yearly budget at the beginning of last year marked the first step in a general turn towards more austerity. by requiring member states to communicate draft budgets to the european institutions before national parliaments are consulted, the european semester set a dangerous precedent. this logic, once imposed, was soon followed by even more drastic measures transferring more and more parliamentary sovereignty to the european supervisory bodies. the stability pact is based on this architecture, as are the commission's new proposals to put states in difficulty under surveillance. the report by mrs berès itself raises concerns about the democratic legitimacy of this process. my group, on the other hand, cannot accept this austerity imposed on the peoples of europe and is therefore calling for a real debate on a new european project, free of the financial markets, with social, human and ecological progress and job security as its main objectives.
member of the commission. − mr president, the debate today on the financing instruments for external actions comes at the end of a long and difficult process. it concerns a package of important legislative amendments. the commission made its first proposals in april 2009. these included proposals to add developing countries under the industrialised countries instrument – creating ‘ici plus’. this will enable us to conduct cooperation activities with them which did not necessarily qualify as official development assistance. the commission also made proposals for measures to accompany the deal in the geneva wto trade talks. these measures concern banana-producing countries – hence the banana accompanying measures or ‘bam’. tomorrow, after two years of negotiation, the parliament will vote on the package of amendments to the development cooperation instrument, to the human rights instrument, and the ici plus. the council has already approved the compromise agreed in conciliation. the negotiations addressed complex issues concerning the eu’s functioning after the lisbon treaty. despite differences of opinion between parliament and the council, the commission considers that the institutions have achieved a balanced compromise. the commission – and in particular my colleagues cathy ashton and andris piebalgs – would like to acknowledge the efforts of both sides in reaching this result. thanks are due also to vice-president vidal quadras and the members of his team, as well as to the successive council presidencies, culminating in the agreement under the polish presidency. failure of this package is not an option. if we did not have this compromise, it would be a severe blow to the european union’s reputation as a credible trade negotiator and as a trusted development partner. we would also be unable to pursue cooperation in some key areas with our strategic partners. therefore, the commission welcomes the agreement covering the short period left between now and 2013. this compromise allows the commission to immediately start implementing the budget for the ici plus initiatives and the banana accompanying measures. for this reason, the commission is grateful for amending budget 6/2011, agreed on 18-19 november between parliament and the council. the additional eur 13.4 million for the banana accompanying measures means we can start implementation as soon as possible. the actions to be funded will improve the projection of the european union’s interests at international level and comply with the development commitments made in geneva to finally end the long-standing banana dispute in the wto. the compromise text addresses parliament’s request for more clarity on the financial allocations in broad terms. at the same time, the proposal respects the council position that the legislation should not include specific financial allocations for individual countries and regions. turning specifically to the banana accompanying measures: the compromise text includes additional information on the three criteria to be followed by the commission in determining the financial allocations per country. it also includes an indication of how the criteria will be applied. it also adds an explicit reference to the commission’s intention to come forward with a formal implementing commission decision on the indicative country allocations. this will give parliament and the council the opportunity to express their views on the financial allocations. the accompanying measures promised in the framework of the banana trade agreements are important for the acp countries. the tariff cuts have already started kicking in, and the acp countries have requested this additional support. last but not least, i would like to the remind the house that the funds we promised to the acp countries’ banana producers in geneva must be additional and cannot be taken out of the european development fund. moreover, as we are also at the end of the 10th european development fund financial protocol, there is no margin of manoeuvre left within this instrument. a few words about ici plus: under ici plus, minimum percentage floors for the three priority areas (public diplomacy, economic partnership and people-to-people links) and a maximum percentage ceiling for administrative costs have been included in the text. the four percentages add up to less than 100%, leaving sufficient margin to decide on final allocations during programming. this gives the necessary flexibility to take account of developments and needs on the ground. at the same time, it provides for involvement of the co-legislators in overall priorities for ici plus. mr president, to conclude, the commission therefore looks forward to the final approval of the package by parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will vote for the third time on the new development cooperation instrument which provides for accompanying measures in the banana sector for acp banana exporters following the reduction of their tariff preferences, the mab. this assistance programme has a budget of eur 190 million and is intended for ten acp countries until 2013. it is of crucial importance to our african and caribbean partners, as the banana sector has a considerable economic and social weight in these countries. if all the demands of parliament concerning the application of delegated acts have not been met with regard to this instrument, i very much regret it. we have nevertheless managed to make some progress. the text provides for clear objectives and precise criteria for the allocation of resources to the commission. the commission also made a statement specifying the methodology used. in addition, we have a statement from the council on the next multiannual financial framework, stating that the latter would take due account of the delegated acts in the external aid instruments after 2013. finally, in its resolution parliament states - and this seems to me to be the most important point - that this is by no means a precedent. i have just returned from togo, where the 22nd session of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly was held, and i think i can tell you that our acp friends are counting on us, given the urgency of the situation. the funds should have been released two years ago. we must be aware of the disastrous consequences for our acp partners if the icd/mab were rejected. the situation of some farmers is dramatic, we cannot wait any longer and must act accordingly. i therefore count on you to support the text.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i may say so, delegated acts are not very sexy, but they are essential. i would first like to commend mr goerens for the work he has done to defend the rights granted by the lisbon treaty to this house, to this democratic body. the greens/efa group is of course in favour of granting accompanying measures in the banana sector, even if it should be remembered that compensation will not solve the problems of small producers faced with latin america on a globalised market, in the absence of fair wto measures. our group, on the other hand, is strongly opposed to our giving up the rights granted by the lisbon treaty. parliament has a say in the 190 million that will be granted and cannot, under any circumstances, give a blank cheque to the commission or the member states. i would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the compromise on the icd/mab financing instrument, which means that we, the members of parliament, are in the end destroying our own power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our coordinator, mr thijs berman, is unable to be here this evening for personal reasons. however, i know that he fully shares my analysis of the matter. the conciliation on this legislative package has been long and tedious and while the result on the human rights and ipi+ instruments is satisfactory, we are far from being on the right track with the banana instrument. the compromise found on this text thus completely undermines the mandate given to our negotiating team, which was to put parliament on an equal footing with the council in all programming decisions concerning the choice of strategic priorities and financial allocations. the powers of this house and the very spirit of the lisbon treaty are what we are talking about here. the choice of programming priorities is a highly political decision, on which our assembly must have a say. by categorically refusing to recognize any power of control in parliament and by using shameful blackmail, the council has once again shown a reprehensible ideological retreat. but the member states must understand that the external action of the european union is now a shared competence between our institutions. that is why our parliament must remain sovereign and reject the proposal on the banana instrument. this is the only way we can show the council and the commission that parliament wants more transparency in community decisions. if we lose this battle, it would be absurd to think that we would have to wait for a new treaty to finally get the powers that the lisbon treaty already provides for.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, today is world aids day. it was very important for our parliament to adopt this resolution to send a strong signal. because if the aids epidemic is going down around the world, it may be less visible. but we must not let our guard down, because today is still a plague. more than 12 million young people aged 15 to 25 are affected, including 500,000 in europe, which is why we must bring all our political forces together. the european commission - commissioner dalli has just said this - has adopted an action plan on the fight against hiv for the period 2009-2013, and it is important that at the mid-term we can take stock of the situation and see what progress has been made. in fact, more than 50 000 new hiv cases are diagnosed each year in the european union and neighbouring countries. in the eu, nearly 30% of hiv-positive people are unaware of their infection and in several neighbouring countries this figure is as high as 70%. this is a serious problem for us as policy makers. half of all hiv-positive people continue to receive treatment late and reach advanced stages of infection before being diagnosed and starting treatment. in addition, it has recently been shown that an hiv-positive person who takes antiretroviral medication after diagnosis, rather than when his health begins to decline, can reduce the risk of transmitting the virus to uninfected partners by 96%. it is therefore essential that the european union remains committed to ensuring that the progress and investments already made are not eroded. we must strengthen prevention and training. we need to improve surveillance. we must constantly establish networks linking all those involved in the fight against this scourge. and we need to encourage the dissemination of good practice and get, among other things, very easy, and of course effective, tests for citizens. if these tests are widespread, i think it will be much easier for everyone to know if they are actually infected with the virus. that is the work we must do. i think it is important that we do not let our guard down and that we continue our efforts to fight hiv/aids.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr draghi, we are delighted to see you again today. i must say that i would have liked to have had a few more colleagues in this chamber to pay tribute to you. first, a point on the independence of the ecb. i think it is very good that it has been referred to unambiguously by mrs merkel, mr monti and mr sarkozy. we are also very attached to this in the european parliament. of course, the principle of independence gives you increased responsibility, to yourselves, to the members of the executive board and the board of governors, but we trust you to make these decisions. all the current speculation about what the ecb could or should do, but also - i should like to say this - about your internal organisation, mr president, seems to me to be harmful to the euro and to the independence of the central bank. i would like to stress another point, however, which is that of communication. it is quite natural that there should be a debate, and given the scale of the issues, a lively debate among the members of the board of governors. but once the decisions are taken, i would like to see the collective spirit of teamwork prevail and that the decisions are taken in the general european interest, before any national considerations. i share the concern of this parliament for greater transparency, but at the moment the problem is not to publish the minutes, but to prevent some people from saying things in their national press that may not be in line with what has been collectively decided. it's often said that politicians talk too much. it's often said that women talk too much. i feel like there are some male technicians who could use a little more quiet. you yourself have shown great ingenuity in your communication; we commend you on that. i would like to stress that we have one treaty, one currency and probably the same concern for discipline. i would like to see this concern for discipline and respect for the rule, mr president, reflected in your own 'house' when it comes to defending the unity of the european central bank. the rest of you, take heart! we're counting on you!
ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the european central bank, this annual report finally breaks down some taboos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the report acknowledges the soundness of the ecb's secondary market repurchase of sovereign debt, which has enabled banks to preserve their balance sheets and to continue borrowing on the interbank market. a liquidity crisis was thus avoided. but to defuse the sovereign debt crisis, the ecb would need to be allowed to intervene in the primary market when it becomes illiquid. germany itself has had difficulty in raising funds. italian bond issues are increasingly priced. in the absence of such intervention, the risks of default in italy would seriously jeopardise the health of the banks. they would grant fewer credits and would not be able to meet the new required solvency ratios. the report also stresses the need for a european treasury, which should be able, as in the united states, to issue federal treasury bonds at lower rates. in the event of speculation, the ecb should be allowed to buy back these eurobonds, as in the united states and the united kingdom. do you know that both of these countries are funding themselves at historically low rates, and this despite the downgrading of one of them by a rating agency? the situation in germany is not the same as it was in the 1920s: production capacity is underused. so there is no inflation by demand. there is no more cost inflation because of wage moderation, or because the economic downturn lowers the cost of raw materials despite speculation. it is time to recognize that this is the time for monetary audacity, if we do not admit for the time being the absurdity of fiscal orthodoxy in times of recession.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this 2012 budget is, after all, the council's budget, to which the european parliament has added a little extra soul thanks to some priorities obtained, but in commitment appropriations, which, commissioner, will reinforce the problem of the remaining balance to be settled. the countercyclical development and growth objective of the community budget is again strongly undermined in 2012. first, because the competition between programmes, the result of the search for savings at any cost, has been favoured at the expense of the prioritization of the mechanisms allowing an active role to be played in overcoming the crisis. secondly, by refusing to make payments on time - which they are legally obliged to do - the member states discourage project promoters from developing structural initiatives. finally, because the council's refusal to increase the funding of the financial supervisory authorities or to create a genuine fund for the management of agricultural crises has ignored the very context in which this budget must be implemented. the member states are thus imposing austerity on the european union, as they have imposed it on their citizens, and the present negotiations on this budget are only the beginning of those to come on the next multiannual financial framework. the crisis of confidence between the institutions, which has emerged, in particular with the council's questioning of the figures put forward by the commission - which you must have appreciated, commissioner - or the failure to comply with decisions taken jointly by the two arms of the budgetary authority, will be difficult to alleviate. however, the tools exist to achieve this and i am referring here to new own resources to break the fatal impasse of a contrast between net contributors and net beneficiaries. there is now an emergency.
mr president, it should first be noted that this agreement was adopted for the first time in full compliance with the deadlines of the new budgetary procedure established by the treaty of lisbon. nevertheless, for the second year in a row, the european parliament accepted the council's reading of payments at less than 2% this year, i.e. less than in 2011 in real terms. we have said it again and again: this decision goes against the commission's estimates, which indicated much higher payment needs for 2012. we have certainly obtained the level of commitment appropriations we wanted in virtually all areas; the budget cannot, however, be constantly adjusted and increased during the year in accordance with the needs expressed. this is a one-off method which cannot allow the european union to draw up broad guidelines, particularly in research, and the case of iter shows us this. i simply want to point out that the community budget is still a lever and that despite the current austerity policy in the member states - which we fully understand - we must also make a minimum commitment and that with an 80% return for the citizens, the budget of the european union is not a black hole but a redistributive tool which can also make it possible to invest in the future.
in writing. the eu budgetary procedure consists of three stages: adoption of the budget, implementation of the budget and evaluation of the budget. when the budget is adopted, it is envisaged that a flexibility instrument may be used to exceed the ceilings for certain european policies. the use of this instrument for the 2012 budget relates to the european neighbourhood policy and the europe 2020 strategy. considering that aid to europe's immediate neighbours (in particular following the arab spring) is essential to guaranteeing europe's stability and that achieving the objectives of the strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth is a priority, i voted in favour of the böge report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision authorising the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument beyond the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework because it is important, in these times of crisis, to invest in projects for the future. the union budget needs to become more flexible in order to reorient funding priorities when circumstances so require.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, the european parliament has increased its budgetary powers. parliament and the council now share full budgetary competence. since the two institutions adopted a different draft budget last october, this matter was then discussed in the conciliation committee so that the european parliament and the council could agree on a common draft budget. i am pleased to see that the priorities set by the members have been taken up. while taking account of the context of fiscal austerity in which the member states find themselves, we have ensured that europe's commitments to growth, jobs and innovation will be met. i therefore approved this draft budget for 2012.
in writing. the draft 2012 budget contains interesting initiatives, such as the €250 million allocation for fruit and vegetable producers or the 'erasmus for all' budget. i regret, however, that in the course of the negotiations we have lost the small percentage of budgetary increase envisaged by both the commission and parliament in their october vote. we are still a long way from devoting 1.24% of our gdp to the european budget! the period is more rigorous than the increase in expenditure. however, i am of the opinion that austerity cannot be accepted as a policy. we must also offer prospects for recovery. the budget as it stands today does not allow for economic, environmental and social recovery. i abstained for this reason, but also because a budget of 100 million is being allocated to iter (and this is only the first of a long series!). i believe that this research project should be carried out on a constant budget. the budget has been growing exponentially since its inception, so iter should now expand with the funds available.
in writing. i voted for the 2012 budget, which was agreed between parliament and the council. this budget will amount to €129.1 billion in payments, an increase of 1.86%, and €147.2 billion in commitments. several of the european parliament's priorities were taken into account: food aid for the poorest, aid to groups of vegetable growers, the lifelong learning programme, aeronautical and space research programmes, border control (frontex), new priorities for financial control and the start of financing the additional cost of the iter reactor.
in writing. i abstained. as my colleague estelle grelier has very well said, this 2012 budget is ultimately the council's budget, to which the european parliament has added a little 'soul supplement'. we are not fooled by the council's manoeuvre: the member states are seeking above all to impose austerity, without accepting the display of the consequences of this choice on the concrete policies pursued by the european union. in the face of the crisis and recession europeans are experiencing, with the states having difficulty in financing themselves and increasing their austerity policies, we need at least a european budget that is up to the task and capable of implementing recovery policies. the same is true of jobs and growth in europe.
in writing. i welcome the strong support for the report on the union's 2012 budget following the agreement reached in the conciliation committee with the council of the european union. the 2012 budget will amount to eur 129 billion, representing a measured increase of 1,86% in payment appropriations compared to 2011 and eur 147,2 billion in commitment appropriations. this is a salutary effort on the part of the european parliament, which has adapted its ambitions to the present situation, while preserving the major policies of the cap and cohesion and the areas of investment for the economy of the future: entrepreneurship, innovation, aeronautical and space research programmes... the operating expenditure of the european institutions, on the other hand, has been limited to less than 6% of the union budget. with this decision, the european institutions have sent a clear message to the public: the crisis affects everyone and especially no one is spared. in this context we must also make the necessary effort to reduce our expenditure as far as possible. i am also pleased that the programme of food aid for the most deprived has been maintained, which has been the main concern of the french authorities and the members of the presidential majority throughout the last few months.
in writing. in the face of unforeseen financial needs, the eu budgetary procedure allows the european commission to propose amendments to the current budget. the commission therefore presented various draft amending budgets for the 2011 budget. the european parliament, which has budgetary powers, discusses the commission's proposals and votes on draft amendments. the draft amendment on the agenda of this plenary session concerned the european social fund, the programme of support for the development of an integrated maritime policy and european aid to palestine. in order for the eu to achieve the objectives it has set itself, these changes are necessary. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs sidonia jedrzejewska.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers facing redundancies in the automotive sector. by allowing this fund to be allocated, the european union is showing solidarity with our workers who are suffering from the consequences of the crisis.
in writing. another one! once again, i voted against. the report aims to mobilise more than €1 million, in the name of supporting portuguese employees, to finance the social plans of three companies that are laying them off. as in the case of renault and peugeot last month, three portuguese companies in the automotive sector are laying off hundreds of men and women to increase their profits and/or relocate a production site to morocco. for me, it's still a cauldron on a wooden leg. if we really want to help employees, we must not confine ourselves to 'adjusting to globalisation'. it would be better if the money distributed by the european union were always matched by a return in terms of democracy within the company, a ban on redundancies and the establishment of a better distribution of the wealth created. it would be better if all members of the european parliament supported us when we propose publicly funded employment and training security. european workers deserve more than short-term reactions to the goodwill of companies which consider them to be merely an adjustment variable.
in writing. at the request of the court of first instance of piraeus, greece, the european parliament voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of georgias toussas, mep, accused of fraud. parliament wanted to point out that meps have not only rights but also obligations. meps are accountable to the people and must carry out their mandate in an impeccable manner. i therefore voted in favour of the zwiefka report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which lifts the parliamentary immunity of georgias toussas mep. this decision will show our fellow citizens that elected officials are not immune from judicial sanctions in the event of misconduct and that there is no impunity within our institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will clarify the legal framework for european aid. the implementation of these measures will support growth-enhancing projects and strengthen control over the allocation of these funds.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, european solidarity is more relevant than ever. this european solidarity is at the heart of cohesion policy, which provides aid to regions whose economies are lagging behind. at present, some member states receiving structural funds from the union are no longer able to co-finance certain development projects due to a lack of liquidity. in favour of a strong cohesion policy, i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution to temporarily increase the co-financing rate for certain projects by 10% (which can therefore be increased to 95% in very specific cases). these projects will be targeted and will have to meet the objectives of competitiveness, employment and growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hübner report amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the aim is to help the member states most affected by the financial crisis to continue implementing programmes financed by the structural funds. the implementation of operational programmes and projects is hampered by cash flow problems linked to budgetary constraints. the revised regulation will therefore increase the amounts allocated to the countries concerned in an exceptional and temporary manner. in practical terms, this will mean an increase in the european co-financing rates of 10 percentage points applicable to the priority axis, with consequently less funding from the states concerned. commitment appropriations will not be modified and the increase in payment appropriations will be offset by the end of the programming period.
in writing. i welcome the almost unanimous adoption of mrs hübner's report, which will allow six member states - portugal, greece, ireland, romania, hungary and latvia - to benefit from the increase in the co-financing rates of the structural and cohesion funds for a temporary period and in an exceptional way. in line with the spirit of solidarity which animates the european union, these six countries, which are facing liquidity problems linked to the crisis and, in fact, difficulties in implementing programmes financed by the regional funds, will be able to receive more funding from the european commission and to have their contribution temporarily reduced. i hope that this exceptional aid measure will make it possible to respond to the urgency of the situation by injecting funds into the real economy and by relaunching projects which will enable these countries to look to the future with confidence. this is a wise decision which will have no impact on the overall allocation of these countries for the period 2007-2013, since the appropriations paid in 2012 will be carried over later.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to support this tourist destination which is very popular with europeans. the extension of this measure is a good example of european solidarity with the territories whose economy, which is highly dependent on tourism, is threatened by the economic crisis.
in writing. in view of the very special situation of the canary islands, which have been hit hard by the crisis, the european union has decided to increase its support for the local economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism. it authorised spain, for a further period of two years, to grant exemptions or reductions from the 'aiem' tax ( arbitrio sobre los importaciones y entregas de mercancias en las islas canarias ) applicable to certain locally produced products. this decision, which has the broad support of the european parliament, is part of the overall approach of providing assistance, through targeted practices, to all the union's territories, in particular those facing real handicaps due to their remoteness or limited accessibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which extends a special clearance for overseas products to support our overseas producers and to enable our citizens to access these products at a lower cost. by extending this measure to promote the trade in rum from our overseas departments, the union is demonstrating the importance of promoting the smooth circulation of products from our countries.
in writing. once again, the european union has shown flexibility by extending for one year the authorisation given to france to apply, on its territory and for traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, an excise duty adapted to the evolution of the rum market in the union. the reduced rate, which has so far been limited to an annual quota of 108 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol, will be increased to 125 000 hectolitres. this decision reflects the eu's ability to adapt to market requirements, which are often synonymous with dynamism for employment, and its concern to maintain the link between the continent and the territories far from the centre of decision-making.
in writing. the vote on the resolution on the ecb's annual report was an opportunity to debate in the european parliament the ecb's role in overcoming the euro area crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the european parliament plays an active role in proposing solutions to the crisis. we have spoken in favour of more economic governance, which must go hand in hand with monetary governance. we also advocate a strong euro area, which needs a european finance minister and a european treasury to support the ecb. the idea of setting up a european monetary fund to reduce the eu's dependence on the imf was also put forward. finally, the creation of a european rating agency would break the monopoly of us rating agencies, which jeopardise market confidence in the euro area.
in writing. i voted for the tremosa i balcells report on the ecb's 2010 annual report. it stressed the persistence of a fiscal governance deficit within the european union and expressed concern at the increasing reliance of a number of euro area banks on liquidity provided by the ecb in the absence of a genuinely functioning interbank market. the report also welcomes the decisive action taken by the ecb since the start of the economic crisis in 2007, and acknowledges that the unconventional measures taken by the institution in the field of monetary policy have proved necessary even if they must remain temporary. the report calls for a "more integrated economic governance" to combat the crisis effectively and proposes several lines of thinking (european monetary fund, european ministry of public finance, single european treasury).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which gives an objective account of the activities of the european central bank (ecb) in 2010. it proposes solutions to further the economic integration of the euro area and to end the sovereign debt crisis now affecting the whole area. a european response to this crisis is urgently needed to reassure markets and guarantee the savings of our citizens.
in writing. i voted against this report which largely endorses the role of the european central bank and its negative action in managing the current crisis, including by going beyond the treaties. the report also welcomes the ecb's "constant and rigorous" approach and its successful fight against inflation. worse still, the report promotes a new political role for the ecb, calling for it to expand its action. the key issue for me is to place the ecb under political control and to force it to intervene not to support the financial markets and the banks but to support the states, employment and social cohesion. the first step would therefore be to allow the bank to lend directly to the states, instead of leaving the latter dependent on market rates. this would avoid the invention of gas factories like the one now being put forward, whereby the ecb would lend money to the imf so that it could pay it back to the member states. this would be the best way of combating speculation in public debt. in the face of the accumulating economic aberrations, it is more necessary than ever to control the european central bank.
in writing. convinced that giving more weight to education will make europe more competitive, i voted in favour of the honeyball report on the fight against early school leaving. this is part of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to improve education levels by reducing the school drop-out rate to below 10%. the european parliament is in favour of compulsory schooling up to the age of 18 and the creation of 'second chance schools' to reintegrate young people who have dropped out of school. the vocational dimension must be an integral part of the education programmes.
in writing. school dropout and its impact on youth employment and social exclusion is a major challenge for europe. mrs honeyball's report addresses a major priority: bringing the school drop-out rate down to below 10%. the challenge is great! in 2009, among young people aged 18 to 24, it was 14.4% in europe. most eu countries have made progress in reducing the number of young people leaving school early or with low qualifications, but there is still much to be done to achieve this goal. i think the guidelines proposed in the report are very constructive, such as personalisation of courses and training, early identification and support for pupils at risk of dropping out, taking account of the impact of social inequalities, the development of alternance training and the strengthening of the reception of disabled pupils. the funds needed to implement them still have to be committed! it is essential that the european education system ensures that all young people do not leave school before they have a solid foundation of basic skills to enable them to continue training, study or find a job.
in writing. i voted for the honeyball report on the fight against early school leaving. this report was widely agreed. it proposes a series of ambitious measures to combat early school leaving and school drop-out.
in writing. the fight against early school leaving is one of the eu's objectives in the europe 2020 strategy. the ambition is to reduce the school drop-out rate to 10%, from the current 14.4%. i voted in favour of this report because it offers personalised measures to prevent drop-outs and to reintegrate young people who are in this situation into the school system. the creation of channels of cooperation between the widest possible range of actors in educational and economic life seems to me to be one of the most essential proposals in this report, which reflects the role of the school as a crucial stage in the social and professional integration of everyone.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which makes it possible to strengthen the fight against the exclusion of these populations of young people in difficulty. it is important to help these young people stay in education in order to provide them with all the tools to enter the workforce with a degree.
in writing. it all starts in school, where we give our children the keys to their educational and cultural future. every year in europe, more than 6 million children leave school without a diploma. school dropout is a major contributor to unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, and it is a major challenge for europe: our children are our future and it is essential to act for them. i am therefore very pleased that our parliament has adopted a resolution on the fight against early school leaving at this plenary session. in particular, i strongly support some of the key provisions of this report: more efforts to 'tailor the approach' to each child, more access for pupils to educational support, improved vocational guidance schemes with more contacts with entrepreneurship, an end to separate specialised education for disabled people with a view to better integration of these pupils, or finally the creation of more second chance schools which are excellent and highly effective in terms of vocational and social integration of young people leaving the education system. these are all extremely relevant provisions if we want to improve our education systems in europe, but they still need to be implemented by the states.
in writing. 52% of young people who leave school without a diploma find themselves unemployed. the current dropout rate is intolerable. that is why i supported the adoption of this resolution to call on member states to undertake educational reforms that target the children most at risk of dropping out of school, and who are - more often than not - children from poor and disadvantaged families or from migrants. particular efforts must be made for roma children, 20% of whom are not in school at all and 30% of whom are in a situation of dropping out of school. the success of the 'second chance schools' experience should be supported to help reintegrate young people who have dropped out. finally, different learning methods could also contribute to this reversal, as could the promotion of courses which reward practical knowledge more.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on school drop-out, which affects 6 million young people in europe each year. this report is consistent with the priorities of the european union's europe 2020 strategy, which has set itself the objective of reducing the school drop-out rate to below 10%. in france we have set ourselves the ambitious target of bringing the rate down to 9.5%. it is essential to tackle the root cause and prevent these young people from being marginalised. i therefore fully support the recommendations in this report, which stress the need to identify and support young people at high risk of dropping out from early childhood. it also recommends that the personalisation of courses and training be made more widespread, that alternating training be developed, that consultation with parents be strengthened and that the impact of social inequalities be taken into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on combating early school leaving. this text recalls one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy: to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% by 2020, which would have a positive effect on reducing youth unemployment and improving the employment rate in the union (more than half of europeans who left school early are currently unemployed). this is all the more important to achieve as the number of jobs available for the low-skilled and unskilled labour force will continue to decline in the coming years. the resolution also highlights a worrying situation: one in four young europeans currently has difficulty reading. it is clear, however, that reading is an indispensable tool for progress in all school subjects, for integration into the world of work, for understanding information, for communicating properly, and for cultivating oneself. so back to basics: specific measures to address the gaps in reading are urgently needed. and let us advocate early learning of ict (new information and communication technologies), such as languages, which young people have the advantage of being able to assimilate quickly.
in writing. i supported this report in plenary because it tackles a real scourge, which most often affects young people in an already precarious situation. it is undeniable that, in many cases, school dropout is linked to poverty and social exclusion. so fighting one is fighting all the others. the report sets out simple guidelines: early detection, increased support, personalised approach. these solutions are known, but few states today are willing to make their implementation a priority. but enabling more young people to take full advantage of education raises the overall level of skills and therefore employment opportunities. a final word on reading: the proportion of 15-year-olds with reading difficulties in the member states is 24.1%. if we have to choose an angle of attack, this is it! reading is, in my opinion, the indispensable key to all knowledge, all knowledge. we must ensure that all young people, whether they leave the school system on time or early, have this key in their pocket!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the fight against school drop-out, which persists and even worsens in all the member states of the union. the proposals in this report are positive: the need to identify 'at-risk pupils', the call for a personalised and inclusive approach to education, the development of free public education and care services, especially for young children. we need a school that will truly be a school of equality, inclusion, of all and all, and academic achievement. it is up to the member states to translate these proposals into action, while austerity policies are primarily targeting public education services.
in writing. the european development cooperation policy granted the african, caribbean and pacific group of states trade preferences on agricultural products such as bananas. denounced by the world trade organisation (wto), this preferential trade regime was the subject of a banana agreement negotiated between the eu and the latter. although tariff preferences have been revised downwards, the eu has not abandoned the acp banana-producing countries. in fact, it has put in place a programme of measures (2010-2013) to support them in their adaptation efforts. these measures were the subject of an overall compromise with the council. i voted in favour of the goerens report which recalls that the treaty of lisbon places the european parliament on an equal footing with the council as regards the approval of strategic priorities in the programming of cooperation funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which will support the acp banana economy while respecting wto rules. this is to help countries whose economic development is concentrated in specialised sectors.
in writing. i voted against this report on the creation of a new financial instrument for development cooperation which provides for support measures for banana producers in certain acp countries following the reduction of their tariff preferences. i am of course in favour of this aid programme with a budget of eur 190 million and in favour of the granting of accompanying measures in the banana sector because this sector is of crucial importance for our acp partners. i am, however, totally opposed to the council's attitude on this matter and its refusal to recognize any power whatsoever in our parliament. under the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has equal power with the council to approve strategic priorities and financial allocations in the programming of european funds, including those for development cooperation. by its rigid attitude and its threats to block the whole legislative package, the council has shamefully denied the mandate given to the european parliament's negotiating team led by my colleague charles goerens, who himself asked to have his name removed from the report, to show his displeasure. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. i voted against this report, of course, not because i am opposed to the idea of giving financial aid to the acp banana-producing countries which have been affected by the reduction in customs duties on bananas from latin american countries. on the contrary, the aid of eur 190 million to be distributed over 10 countries over 4 years seems to me to be entirely justified. i am very concerned, however, about the way in which parliament's powers have been denied throughout the negotiations on this text. while, since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, parliament can be placed on an equal footing with the council in the control of the commission's implementing powers, the council has demanded that it simply inform parliament of the implementing measures which will be taken following the adoption of this text. this refusal by the council to allow parliament to exercise its legitimate right of control is absolutely unacceptable. to denounce this refusal and to avoid setting a precedent in future negotiations on financial instruments, i have opposed the adoption of this text by parliament.
in writing. this dci/bam text wipes out the mandate given to parliament's negotiating team: to respect the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty, to put parliament on an equal footing with the council on all programming decisions concerning the choice of strategic priorities and financial allocations, and not to set a negative precedent for parliament before the next negotiations on the future financial instruments for external aid 2014-2020. with the application of article 291 of the feu treaty to strategic programming decisions, parliament will therefore have even less power of control than under the comitology procedure in force under the old treaty. all this is the result of shameful blackmail by the council, which threatened to block the whole package of measures if parliament rejected even one of the four texts put to the vote. i therefore voted against this text because our parliament had to defend its rights under the lisbon treaty, while showing that its plenary remains sovereign in the face of attempts to destabilise the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the community funding provided for in the regulation as negotiated with the council will support economic, financial, technical, cultural and academic cooperation in the partner countries. it will also strengthen economic links with these countries. another important point for me is that this new regulation will strengthen the role of parliament: it will finally be involved in the programming, evaluation and notification of the programme. it will therefore no longer be able to simply give its opinion after the fact but will actually be able to give directions. that is why i hope that it will come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. as part of its development cooperation policy, the eu has set up a financial instrument for the period 2007-2013 to help developing countries. this instrument contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals . i agree with the development objective of this instrument and would like to recall that the treaty of lisbon places the european parliament on an equal footing with the council as regards the approval of strategic priorities in the programming of cooperation funds. i therefore voted in favour of the mitchell report.
in writing. i abstained on this report which redefines the regulation of the use of financial instruments in the field of development cooperation. i am opposed to the general way in which these funds are disbursed, which is often used as a weapon in our dealings with developing countries and their citizens. in addition, this report makes very little progress on the role of the european parliament in defining the objectives which will underlie the use of the funds thus mobilised. i voted in favour of two other reports which specifically reject the use of these funds: that of kinga gál and barbara lochbihler, which focuses on the promotion of democracy and human rights, and that of my colleague and friend helmut scholz, which deals with cooperation with the industrialized countries. the european parliament has gained a greater say in these two reports. this democratic progress is in itself a positive. it must make it possible to reorient these instruments towards genuine cooperation based on the values of democracy, solidarity and respect for differences, especially cultural ones.
in writing. the commission has proposed the revision of the regulation on statistical returns in road freight transport. the aim is to codify various acts applicable to road statistics and to lay down new conditions for the delegation of powers by the legislator to the commission. i supported that report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow kaliningrad to be considered as a single border area with the eu and will contribute to strengthening the strategic partnership between the eu and russia.
in writing. the kaliningrad enclave is the only enclave existing within the territory of the european union. the council and the european parliament adopted in 2006 a regulation laying down rules on small-scale crossborder trade at the external land borders of the member states which allows for derogations from the general rules on border controls laid down in the schengen borders code for persons residing in a border area. this regulation allows member states to conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries which are not part of the european union. the small border traffic makes life much easier for people living close to the external land borders. there is little evidence of abuse. the application of the normal rules for defining the border zone would artificially divide this enclave. the text authorises the extension of the 'border zone', thereby facilitating and increasing economic and cultural exchanges between kaliningrad and the main centres of northern poland. i voted in favour of this amendment to the rules of procedure because i believe that european laws and regulations must be adapted to the realities on the ground.
in writing. croatia's eu accession process began in 2003 when the country submitted its application to the european commission. these ten years of negotiations have enabled it to prepare for its integration into the european union. i welcome the support of the european parliament, which has wanted to send a strong signal to croatia. it will become the 28th member of the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. croatia is unquestionably a european country, with its geography, culture, history and population. and each of us should appreciate the close relationship we can have with her. however, the european construction as it stands cannot be the framework for these relations. it is in fact moving dangerously towards a centralized supranational state, bypassing the peoples and national parliaments, imposing its ultra-liberal and globalist dictates, arrogating to itself the right to dictate the budgets of the states, and thus all their actions, with an eye riveted more on the satisfaction of markets than on the well-being of men. i understand the symbolic value for the croatian people of membership of the european union. but i also know that these people will soon be unhinged. the benefits will be far less than expected, and the stresses far more unbearable than expected. ask the greek, irish, portuguese people what they think of it today! i'm not selling a friend a ticket to the titanic. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on croatia's application for membership of the european union. the report approves the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. for my part, although the commission must regularly inform parliament of the extent to which the croatian authorities are honouring their commitments to fulfil the obligations incumbent upon them at the time of accession on 1 july 2013, i consider that the crisis in the european union is sufficiently serious to put the integration process on hold. the countries currently members of the european union, and in particular of the euro area, must be sufficiently strong before they can integrate the benefits and constraints of new membership. the current mobilization of heads of state and government to build the future of the eu is a testament to the urgency of consolidating our achievements. i would also expect the european commission to take specific measures to ensure that the fight against corruption is guaranteed.
in writing. croatia, which has been negotiating its accession since 2005, has in recent years carried out major structural reforms to enable it to fulfil the conditions for membership of the european union. major reforms have been carried out to improve employment, taxation and competitiveness. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia agreement on the implementation of the eu-croatia agreement. to heal the wounds of the past, croatia must increase its efforts to bring war criminals to justice, to respect all the recommendations of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and to encourage the return of war refugees, especially serbs. the forthcoming accession of croatia is a positive signal for the whole region, it is a sign that the reforms are paying off, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. the eu accession of croatia on 1 july 2013, which is supported by the european parliament, will strengthen the eu's zone of prosperity and stability in south-east europe, a region that has experienced the last open conflict on european soil. the accession of croatia will help to maintain the credibility of the enlargement process and will be an encouragement for the other countries in the western balkan region on the path to european integration.
in writing. the great story of european construction continues. with the european parliament's positive vote in favour of croatia's accession, the european union is about to welcome a 28th member state. by voting in favour, i wanted to show my approval of the accession of a country which is profoundly european in its history, its culture but also and above all in its geography. not long ago, the balkans were a hotbed of bloodshed. since then, the countries of the former yugoslavia have made very rapid progress on the path of reform and integration. of course, croatia still has a long way to go to live up to the standards of the european union, but with this vote the european parliament has just reaffirmed zagreb's european vocation.
in writing. i voted in favour of croatia joining the european union, which should become the 28th state of the union, by 1 july 2013 at the latest. until then, it will of course have to continue its efforts to join. in recent years, croatia has implemented reforms that have made its institutions more transparent and accountable. despite the severity of the crisis, the country is investing in a policy of green job creation and carrying out ambitious reforms. the positive vote thus confirms croatia's legitimacy to join the european union and rewards the efforts made.
in writing. this report welcomes the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia. it also supports the country's reform drive and invites all actors in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres to participate. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. croatia, which has been negotiating its accession since 2005, has in recent years carried out major structural reforms to enable it to fulfil the conditions for membership of the european union. major reforms have been carried out to improve employment, taxation and competitiveness. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. to heal the wounds of the past, croatia must increase its efforts to bring war criminals to justice, to respect all the recommendations of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and to encourage the return of war refugees, especially serbs. the forthcoming accession of croatia is a positive signal for the whole region, it is a sign that the reforms are paying off, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. in favour of greater transparency in the activities of meps, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague carlo casini. the code of conduct aims to make members more accountable by declaring professional activities carried out in parallel with and before their term of office. the code of conduct also contains provisions on their parliamentary remuneration and any external remuneration and sanction mechanisms in the event of breaches of the code.
in writing. we all remember the scandal of meps who 'sold' their amendments to fake lobbyists who were in fact journalists. although the case concerned only a small minority of members, it was part of a general atmosphere of suspicion towards the political class and cast doubt on the integrity of members. by establishing strict rules on declaration of financial interests and the prevention of conflicts of interest, the code of conduct aims to improve transparency and thus - i hope - the image of meps in the public eye. a member will have to declare his parallel professional activities and those he had before his mandate, and the rapporteur may be removed from his role as rapporteur if a conflict of interest is discovered. the issue with the code of conduct is the restoration of accountability. it is a question of ensuring that such cases, which are harmful to all, do not happen again in the future!
in writing. i voted in favour of the introduction of this new code of conduct for meps. this code prohibits members from engaging in lobbying activities in parallel with their mandate, it prohibits us from receiving gifts of more than 150 euros, it obliges us to notify all our activities and remuneration during and before our mandate, and it obliges us to declare any membership of an association, any type of interest in a company or structure called "influence" and any other type of financial interest. in particular, i supported amendment no 10, which proposed to remove the threshold of eur 5000 for members to declare all paid outside activities. by setting these strict rules, parliament is thus seeking to bring about greater transparency and clarity in its day-to-day activities. it is also a question of restoring the external image of the meps and of combating the anti-parliamentarism that surrounds them. the challenge of this code is also to restore the responsibility of everyone; however, i regret that such measures are adopted only in response to scandals (remember the scandal of the 3 mps caught in flagrant corruption by lobbyists in march 2011).
in writing. i supported the creation of a strengthened code of conduct for meps to send a clear signal about my demands for transparency and respect by elected members of a number of ethical rules. i therefore consider it essential to prevent members from exercising a secondary professional activity involving lobbying activities which could unduly influence the exercise of their mandate. and to make sure that the possibility of abuse is clearly excluded, sanctions must be provided for, as is proposed in this code of conduct. finally, i rejected the initiatives to weaken this system, which some considered "too transparent" and which would not have achieved the objective of restoring the confidence of the citizens in their elected representatives.
in writing. in any democratic society, citizens have the right to demand that their leaders behave honestly and responsibly. the legitimacy of power is at stake, and it is unacceptable that scandals involving a small number of politicians affect the reputation of all decision-makers. conflicts of interest must therefore be avoided and transparency must be ensured. it is in this sense that all relevant information relating to the professional lives of members should be made available to the public. i welcome the vote on the report by mr carlo casini. the text is intended to make very relevant amendments to the code of conduct for members of the european parliament in matters of financial interests and conflicts of interest: recall of the general principles of conduct - selflessness, integrity, transparency, diligence, honesty, responsibility and respect for the reputation of parliament - possibility of suspending a member for the entirety of his function or as rapporteur in a committee, declaration of all mandates likely to influence parliamentary work and/or remunerated, publication of financial or personal support, or supervision of courtesy gifts.
in writing. i voted for this report which clarifies and strengthens the control of the money that members receive and the use they make of it. this report is far from being the most fundamentally political. it is, however, a response to those who are trying, once again, to win votes on the dangerous terrain of anti-parliamentarism. to these, including some far-right members of parliament, we say: 'nothing to hide!' i regret that only the gue/ngl group voted against an amendment which proposed limiting the declaration of income support to income above eur 5 000. unfortunately, this amendment was nevertheless adopted. we hope that this text will help to put an end to the many fantasies which discredit all political action and which are still fuelled by the practices, inherent in human nature, of a few. after this further step towards greater transparency, the political debate must refocus on much more important issues.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, the european parliament showed its resolve and ambition by adopting last september the economic governance package, which contains six legislative proposals all aimed at strengthening the eu's economic governance. these include the implementation of a european semester, which provides a forum for the evaluation and coordination of member states' economic and budgetary policies before they are adopted. while i am convinced that such coordination is essential to bring europe out of the crisis, i note that the berès report does not draw enough lessons from the first european semester, which was launched last july.
in writing. the berès report has the merit of rebalancing - and this was more than necessary - the commission's proposal on the european semester. by emphasizing the priority of employment and the idea that the budgetary, economic and social strategies put in place must have a redistributive and developmental role, the report gives new meaning to the prospects for overcoming the crisis that we are trying to envisage. unfortunately, the european parliament (ep) is still too little involved in the process of the european semester, and is quite often excluded from the current crisis management, which poses a fundamental problem of democracy and eu legitimacy. i can therefore only support the idea of an interparliamentary conference next year, involving both the ep and the national parliaments, so that a wider debate can finally begin on the measures we want to take and the project we want to defend.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague pervenche berès because it is essential that the emergence of european economic governance goes hand in hand with increased democratic control. in the face of the major changes that will have to take place if the union is to emerge from the crisis, it is essential that the decisions taken by europe have strong democratic legitimacy. this legitimacy can only be guaranteed by the european parliament's membership and participation in the annual elaboration of the broad guidelines of the eu's economic policy. it is particularly important that parliament should participate in the european semester procedure, during which each of the 27 draft national budgets is evaluated by the european commission. at the end of this procedure, parliament should have the opportunity to amend the macroeconomic policy guidelines proposed to the member states. this democratic development also requires a strengthened dialogue with national parliaments and the social partners, in order to support the coherence of european economic policy and to ensure that the eu2020 objectives are taken into account. finally, it is imperative that the revision of the treaties be possible only with the agreement and, where appropriate, the participation of parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pervenche berès to denounce the lack of democratic legitimacy currently involved in defining the economic framework of the union, through the european semester. the european parliament and the national parliaments must be able to have their say in this process in order to give it full credibility. a system of coordination exclusively between governments is insufficient to meet the requirement of making economic policies a matter of common concern. we must allow only the necessary intervention by the union in the areas governed by the community method. finally, the annual growth review should also be transformed into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' devoted to strengthening sustainable growth, governed by the co-decision procedure.
in writing. in may 2010, the commission proposed the introduction of a six-month period of stricter budgetary surveillance. this process has been in place since january 2011. the aim of the european semester is to strengthen coordination between member states and the european institutions while the budget lines for the following year are still at the draft stage. the aim is to ensure that national budgets are compatible with the stability or convergence programmes presented a few months ago and with the economic guidelines adopted at european level. during these six months (january to july), the budgetary and structural policies of the member states will be reviewed, on the basis of the information they provide, in order to detect any inconsistencies or signs of imbalance. i supported this resolution on the first european semester because it calls in particular for a strengthening of parliamentary control over the governance of the euro area both at national and european level. to strengthen the legitimacy of community action and to analyse the proposed measures, it is only natural that the representatives of the peoples should be involved.
in writing. i voted against the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination because, although it is rather critical in tone, it is in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the strengthening of the single market and the '6 pack', and in particular the wortmann-kool report. this is the very proof of the double-speak of some members of parliament. it is pointless to say that parliamentary consent to public budgets is one of the foundations of democracy, since the legislative texts say otherwise. once again, economic policies are being given priority over social issues. this report will not change the current european policies. so i have no reason to change my vote against the six-pack.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the single market forum. the creation of the forum is part of the single market act, which is a strategic planning document for legislative and non-legislative initiatives to relaunch the single market in 2012. the resolution makes proposals for the forum to be an opportunity to effectively relaunch the single market, which contributes greatly to europe's competitiveness.
in writing. i have supported this resolution which draws on the main lessons learned from the first edition of the single market forum held in krakow last october. i think this initiative is very important in order to analyse and debate the shortcomings of the internal market and to find solutions to strengthen it. the diversity of actors present illustrates the need for a genuine dialogue with all stakeholders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the single market forum. the first edition of the forum, held in october, gave businesses, citizens, social partners, ngos and public authorities at different levels the opportunity to share their experiences and concrete proposals on the current functioning of the single market. this exercise, which has the advantage of drawing on various decentralized sources and developing from problems discovered on the ground, will certainly be repeated. we will even be organising a 'single market week' in all the eu countries in 2012. is it not more necessary than ever, in these times of economic crisis and uncertainty, to give a new impetus to the single market? this will require closing the gap between what europeans expect and what they get in practice (this includes the need to fill the gap in knowledge among citizens, consumers and smes about their rights, duties and opportunities in the single market). it will also have to be proven successful, showing that it can bring prosperity to all europeans, wherever they are in the union and whatever their nationality.
in writing. the single market act, adopted at the beginning of 2011, decided to set up this forum, which held its first meeting last october. it brought together over 1000 participants from different sectors (businesses, social partners, ngos, think tanks, members of national parliaments, members of european institutions and representatives of national public authorities) and laid the foundations for several actions to be undertaken before the 20th anniversary of the single market in 2012. one of these actions is, in my view, paramount: the modernisation of the rules on public procurement. to cope with competition from third countries and to allow european companies to compete on equal terms in public procurement outside the european union, we must quickly rethink our tendering rules. the european commission is promising us a specific instrument by the end of 2011. but it's already running way behind schedule, putting our businesses in a difficult position. our companies are competitive, but they are hampered by outdated legislation. this situation cannot continue!
in writing. on 1 december, world aids day, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission and the member states to do everything possible to improve aids prevention and to combat discrimination against people living with hiv. with nearly 26 000 new cases of aids still being reported in europe in 2009, mobilisation must not be called into question.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european union to develop measures to combat this scourge that affects all our people as quickly as possible.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by our parliament, on 1 december, world aids day, of a resolution reaffirming the european union's commitment to the fight against aids, alongside those who are sick. with more than 25 000 new hiv diagnoses recorded in the european union (eu) in 2010, an increase of 4% compared to 2009, strong action by the eu is urgently needed. although much research has been done in the last 20 years, it has not been able to halt the spread of the disease. it is also estimated that 30 percent of people living with hiv are unaware that they have it. the european parliament has therefore voted in favour of strong measures to strengthen research in this field. what we need is prevention and effective screening. research, prevention and widespread testing are the three pillars on which the fight against aids must be based, so that it can be eradicated very quickly.
in writing. the number of patients infected with hiv continues to rise alarmingly in europe, partly because of advances in triple therapy that make the idea of infection less frightening. it is in this context that i voted in favour of this resolution to defend access to comprehensive information on contraception, in particular through 3 paragraphs aimed at, first, integrating hiv/aids prevention programmes into sexual and reproductive health and rights programmes, secondly, asking member states to ensure that all national aids programmes establish close links between sexual and reproductive health and hiv services, and finally, asking the commission and the council to ensure access to comprehensive and quality sexual and reproductive health services, information and material, in particular counselling, testing and treatment, and confidential and non-discriminatory advice; prevention of unwanted pregnancies; affordable and accessible contraceptives; safe and legal access to contraceptives; and care to prevent vertical transmission of hiv, especially to children.
in writing. on the occasion of world aids day on 1 december, the european parliament adopted a resolution to step up efforts to combat hiv/aids. the resolution comes as the european commission is about to launch the mid-term evaluation of the 2009-13 action plan on hiv/aids. each year, 50,000 new cases are diagnosed in the eu and neighbouring countries. in the eu, more than 30% of hiv-positive people are unaware that they are infected, and in neighbouring countries the figure is as high as 70%. these are alarming figures and they make us aware of the urgency of an appropriate response at european and international level. the fight against hiv/aids must be firmly placed among the european health priorities. the eu and its member states must step up prevention, screening and awareness-raising to curb this scourge. because the earlier the person is diagnosed, the greater the chances of resisting the virus's progression and the lower the chances of transmitting the virus to their partners.
in writing. i welcome the fact that on world aids day the resolution on the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries was adopted by a large majority. hiv/aids is a serious public health problem: each year, more than 50 000 new hiv cases are diagnosed in the european union and neighbouring countries. it is essential that the union firmly upholds the commitments it made when adopting its action plan for 2009-2013.
in writing. in 2009, more than 160 000 people were infected with hiv in the eu and neighbouring countries, bringing the number of people living with the virus to more than 2.2 million according to who. while cases of infection are increasing at an alarming rate, particularly in eastern europe, the european centre for disease prevention and control estimates that 30% of infected individuals are unaware of their infection. however, recent studies have shown that early treatment can reduce both the infectiousness of patients and the rate of hiv transmission by up to 96 percent. in view of this, i welcome the adoption of this resolution. the vote will ask the member states to promote and support research into new prevention technologies. the council to address the outbreak through the development of country-specific action plans; the commission and the council, to promote early diagnosis and care. the text also calls on the member states to take all necessary action to put an end to discrimination against people living with hiv/aids. that seems to me to be a very important point.
in writing. in 2009, 161 000 people were infected with hiv in the european union and neighbouring countries, bringing the total number of people living with hiv to more than 2.2 million according to unaids and who estimates. the phenomenon is particularly worrying in eastern european countries, which are much more affected. i supported this resolution in plenary, as it recalls the commitments made at the high level meeting on hiv/aids at the united nations general assembly in 2011, including to ensure access to treatment for 15 million people living with hiv worldwide by 2015 and to reduce hiv infections by 50% by 2015. this can be achieved by combining all prevention and health policies in the member states, drawing on all the stakeholders: not only associations and ngos, medical staff, pharmaceutical laboratories, but also trade unions and the various national ministries. the eradication of this worldwide epidemic can only be achieved by this coordination of all actors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which shows a strong political will on the part of the european parliament, and indeed the european union and its member states, to get involved in the fight against hiv/aids. the fight against this epidemic and all other stds or co-infectious diseases requires strong action by the public authorities. the european parliament is sending a strong signal, including by having the intelligence to remind us that the victory over this scourge is first and foremost a matter of prevention and 'sexual education' and 'close links between sexual and reproductive health services'. equally important is the european parliament's commitment to combating the stigma faced by people living with hiv/aids. such discrimination can even lead to the denial of medical care, which is unacceptable. it is a good thing that more than three quarters of the members of parliament are committed to this, which is not the case. i am sorry to see that some elected officials, no doubt influenced by reactionary movements, have such a backward attitude on such a subject. fundamentalists are not always muslims and not always from across the mediterranean.
in writing. convinced that the european neighbourhood policy contributes to the strengthening of democratic principles and good governance and stability in our immediate neighbourhood, i voted in favour of the legutko report. under the european neighbourhood policy, the eu is linked to a number of countries, including ukraine, by action plans. the association agreements are the first step in bringing them closer together. parliament recommended that the negotiations be based on the progressive establishment of a free trade area, respect for the rule of law, which had been undermined by the tymoshenko affair, and the maintenance of its political independence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the negotiations on the eu-ukraine association agreement, firstly because it insists strongly on the conditionality of this agreement with the protection and promotion of human rights, and secondly because it recalls the strategic interest of ukraine for the european union, not only in terms of energy potential but also in terms of managing migration flows and fighting organised crime. the european union must remain firm in its values and principles, which is why the association agreement must be a real window of economic and commercial opportunity for ukraine, but it must demand in return that ukraine respects the european environmental commitment in its energy activities, that it respects democratic values, the independence of the judiciary, human rights and fundamental freedoms and, above all, that it respects all the commitments it has made under this association agreement. it is important to bear in mind that ukraine is now at the doorstep of the union, and that our closer ties with that country are linked to the effectiveness of our free trade area and our area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. the european union has a strong interest in developing relations with third countries where they can benefit both parties in terms of political stability or economic opportunities. the association agreement currently being negotiated between the eu and ukraine responds to this logic - particularly in view of ukraine's geopolitical importance, its history and its resources - but goes further. it is a new type of agreement, more ambitious and even more promising, since it presupposes a significant implementation of the community acquis in the third country concerned. i therefore welcome the vote on the report by ryszard antoni legutko, who supports these negotiations, while expressly calling for respect for the rule of law and human rights - citing in particular the recent, worrying, conviction of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko. i also particularly welcome the european parliament's willingness to resume a necessary and effective dialogue with president yanukovych, the demand for reform of the judicial and electoral systems and the plan to strengthen energy cooperation to secure europe's energy supply.
in writing. as vice-chair of the foreign affairs committee and as a member of the international trade committee, i was able to follow all the work on these recommendations. when the international trade committee temporarily suspended its vote on the day of the sentencing of yulia tymoshenko, i approved this decision, which was a signal to ukraine that the european union is not only promoting its values, it is also defending them in practice. the recommendations presented to the plenary take full account of this consideration and that is why i voted in favour of them. i will, however, remain vigilant during the negotiations, because beyond my concerns about human rights, i also have doubts about the content of the trade part of this agreement. on the latter point, it will be important for ukraine to agree to make real concessions, in particular on the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to exports and the acceptance of geographical indications.
in writing. in order to strengthen the competitiveness of european businesses and the safety of consumers, the european parliament calls for the modernisation of electronic systems in customs services. this modernisation requires a harmonised application of european customs legislation and simplification of customs procedures. i believe that this modernisation is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, the fight against counterfeiting and the protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the salvini report.
in writing. i voted for the salvini report on the modernisation of customs services. the report recalls that customs must have sufficient resources to cope with their increased responsibilities. this is accompanied by a requirement for simplification, standardisation and modernisation of customs legislation and customs procedures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the modernisation of the european customs strategy. with the dismantling of the internal borders of the european union, customs must have sufficient resources to face new challenges, particularly in terms of security and the prevention of illegal trafficking.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr salvini's report which stresses the crucial role played by customs services in protecting the internal market and consumers. modernisation must include simplification of procedures, taking into account the needs and expectations of smes and strengthening consumer protection and intellectual property rights. on the other hand, i believe that the list rules should be extended without restriction to complement the general principle of non-preferential origin of products based on the criterion of last substantial transformation, as they clarify the legal framework and thus reduce costs for economic operators (i therefore did not support paragraph 45 of the report).
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the modernisation of customs services. parliament called on the commission and the member states to explore the possibility of further strengthening customs cooperation and regulatory harmonization in order to improve the functioning of the customs union. it is essential to simplify and modernise customs procedures and to increase the use of modern computer tools. thus, strengthening the fight against infringements, the illegal entry of counterfeit goods and products contributes to the overall competitiveness of the union, allowing businesses to take account of reliable information concerning the economic market.
in writing. this report is an opportunity to recall the crucial and protective role of customs authorities. they are responsible for the safety of goods and people on a daily basis, they must ensure that intellectual property, health regulations, immigration and product safety are respected - and all this without jeopardising freedom of movement within the european union! however, it is important to point out a common problem facing the customs authorities of the member states: the lack of resources. and let us be realistic, we cannot ask them to be the "fortress guards" and to deal with every situation, while cutting off their financial and human resources. i therefore hope that, in support of their efforts to dematerialize and rationalize controls, their cooperation and funding will be strengthened. this is the price at which we can continue to ensure effective and adequate protection for our citizens and businesses.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i welcome the opportunity to share with you my assessment referring to the current situation and my views on the future of our fisheries agreement with morocco. let me start first with the interim protocol. you are now going to decide whether or not this protocol can be concluded. the lead committee has adopted a positive recommendation, but i know that many of you are not convinced, so let me explain our position. as you know, this one-year protocol – an interim protocol – was agreed with morocco in february this year, just before the previous one expired. i am convinced that this decision was right. i believe even now that we have done the right thing. why? because the interim protocol provided us with the time to address those legal and political issues which are related to fishing in the waters of the western sahara. we have pressed morocco to provide us with reliable information that the local population benefits from the exploitation of these waters, as is required by international law. these efforts have given some potentially positive results. for the first time, the current protocol includes a formal requirement for morocco to report on benefits and their geographic distribution, and in so doing it sets an important precedent for any future protocol. with regard to economic and environmental issues, the mandate to extend the previous protocol did not leave us much room for manoeuvre during the last round of negotiations. in other words, we really did not have the possibility to go for a better agreement referring to economic and environmental issues. however, it is clear that any future negotiations will have to result in a better deal. after all, this interim protocol made it possible for fishing activities to continue without interruption. i know that a lot of you are not convinced about this, but i would just like to remind you that this is really important for some hundreds of european vessels fishing there, most of which are small-scale vessels. on the basis of a decision taken by the council in july, the protocol is now being applied provisionally. indeed, there is less than three months left before it expires at the end of february next year. so i can understand that your rapporteur, mr haglund, and ms fraga estévez and others are not happy that parliament is able to express itself only now. but this is not our fault. we have done everything possible to speed things up. in any event i am glad that parliament has proceeded to this plenary vote without further delay. i can assure you that the outcome is of great importance to all of us. in any case, we are going to respect parliament’s vote. that is something i would like to make absolutely clear. your vote next wednesday will be respected by us. let me also assure you that we are taking very seriously the comments made in mr haglund’s report, as well as the issues he raises and the issues raised in your motion for a resolution arrived at today. so in the case of any agreement, we have to significantly improve the text with regard to environmental, economic and legal/political aspects. let me say here a few words on recent developments in morocco and on the state of relations between the european union and morocco, against which your decision today should also be judged. the winds of change that have affected the southern mediterranean and some countries beyond have touched morocco too. so what is the commission’s assessment of this? the commission assessment is that, in morocco, the authorities have launched a significant process of reform with the elaboration of a new constitution, increasing democratic accountability and respect for human rights as well as the successful holding of parliamentary elections which have brought new forces to power. the european union, at all levels, has welcomed these changes. this house has also called for the eu to support the process of democratic reform in morocco. that is the framework we have to bear in mind when making our decisions. as i said in the committee on fisheries last month, the commission is in the process of preparing a proposal to the council for a new negotiating mandate. at first we thought of waiting for your vote on wednesday, but then we understood that it would be too late for our preparations and too late for you to vote on the substance. that is why we have already worked towards taking this initiative, in order to be ready in case this house gives us a positive signal to go forward on wednesday. so we have done the preparations. if you give your consent to the interim protocol, we are ready to go forward. what are the main parameters of this better deal with morocco that we should be aiming at? first, on economic profitability. we are definitely seeking value for money. it is imperative that any new protocol should ensure a better utilisation of available fishing possibilities as well as an overall financial envelope that clearly reflects market value, as other committees of this house are asking for. second, on environmental sustainability. this means that we will be defining fishing possibilities based on best available scientific advice and also that we will be targeting only the surplus. third, on international legality. with regard to the issue of the waters off western sahara, we will fully respect international law. there are a number of options on how to achieve this. we are working on all of them. if we were to follow the option of including the waters off western sahara, then we would need to demonstrate, through a strict and rigorous reporting mechanism, that there are economic benefits for the regions and local populations concerned. this would become a condition in the new protocol. on all these issues, we will draw on the conclusions from the implementation of the present protocol as well as from the debates in this house. the committee on fisheries last month recommended that parliament consent to the conclusion of the protocol. if that approach is followed by this house, then we will very soon be ready to move ahead towards a better protocol to this agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, the committee on budgets has asked parliament to refuse to approve the fisheries agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. i would like to clarify that this refusal would, in reality, have no practical impact, as this agreement was reached in february 2011; so it expires in a month. the committee on budgets has rejected a proposal to abolish the budgetary commitment linked to this agreement for the coming year. however, by this negative opinion, the committee on budgets wanted to send a warning message. this agreement has negative consequences for the environment, since these fishing areas are notoriously overfished, and for the legal regularity of the expenditure, since the question of decolonisation of western sahara is still blocked by the moroccan state, whereas three quarters of the fishing area concerned is linked to this coast. the refusal to approve this protocol - if parliament follows the vote of the committee on budgets - would send a strong message to the commission with regard to future agreements to be negotiated and a strong message to the moroccan government so that, as the whole southern mediterranean is awakening to democracy, it too will embark on the path of reform and democracy, particularly with regard to the sahrawi people.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall first of all speak on the provisional protocol. as the fictitious rapporteur of my group, i would like to say to the rapporteur that i hope that we will be able to discuss the report on the financing of maritime affairs and fisheries, which i am the rapporteur for and mr haglund is the fictitious rapporteur for, more regularly than we have done with this report. i remind him and i tell him again that i am and have always been open to discussion on all the subjects on which we have worked and will continue to work together, i hope. the fisheries agreement currently in force between the european union and morocco is an extension - as we have already said - of one year of the previous agreement, proposed by the european commission. this agreement will end - i remind you - on 27 february, that is to say in two months' time. mr alfonsi has just said so. it allows ten member states of the european union to fish in moroccan waters and benefits, whether they like it or not, the local populations. the sectoral aid paid by the european union enables the development of fisheries policy throughout morocco. i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this agreement because it is mutually beneficial. its approval will open negotiations on a new fisheries agreement with new criteria. on the other hand, a rejection of this agreement would be a very negative signal for the whole region, in a period of democratization. morocco is an indispensable partner of the european union. the european union's support is not just in the form of statements - there are many of them here - but also in the form of agreements and concrete actions. with the resolution of our group and the alde group on the future agreement, we are sending a strong signal to the commission to negotiate an agreement which is cost-effective and ecologically viable, and which allows the european union to make good use of fishing opportunities. but first, i remind you, we must vote on the interim agreement.
question for the council mr president, i would like to inform our colleagues, since we were together with mrs herzog in cadarache, that the iter project is not secured. as we want to frame the budget of iter, i asked twice and was told: "but it is not ... can you explain to me why the iter project is not insured? if there's an accident, who's gonna pay? is france the only country paying? since this is an international project, i would have liked all the states to participate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is hard to be happy that we have reached agreement with the council on the financing of the additional cost of iter. the debate - which has also polluted the budget negotiations - was not simply about finding a solution for iter: it was mainly about dealing with the structural problem of the european budget's under-financing, which now raises the question of the european union's ability to honour its international commitments. the iter dossier shows once again that the union's budget is not up to its ambitions and is not up to our strategies. iter has become one of the major and recurrent sticking points between parliament and the council - and will continue to be - because the states are asking more and more from the european union without wanting to bear the financial consequences. by proposing diy and short-term solutions to the increasingly costly large projects, the member states are underpinning the possibility for the union to assume its responsibilities in an efficient and sustainable way from 2013 onwards. for 2014 to 2020, by deciding to exit the next financial framework for iter and gms - two research and development projects identified as such by a majority , the european commission is admitting its real inability to ensure the balance between competence and financial means. it is a sign of failure and of serious impotence. the union does not have the means to meet its international commitments; and yet research, innovation and energy are among the major challenges of the 2020 strategy, as are jobs, sustainable development and growth, and it is not by competing these different priorities... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to raise two points which i think are important. when we talk about electricity generation from this fusion reactor, not fission, it's on the horizon 2100. so, it's really not the priority right now. secondly, we talked about setting limits to the budget, and i agree with that, except that in 2006 it was 5 billion euros, and in 2011 it is 15 billion euros, three times as much. and because of fukushima, the japanese are now saying, "we won't be able to answer in two years". so iter is going to be delayed another two years. the third point i mentioned earlier is that this is the first time that a facility like iter, which carries risks, including disruption - i encourage you to read the theses that have been made on this - is not insured. why don't the indians, the chinese, the russians, they're all doing it? because they don't want to increase the budget for iter yet. so it's really a leap forward, that we'd better stop now, rather than putting billions into a project that would work in 2100. that's why it's time to shut down iter.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come a long way. i want to see the debate we had on this very important matter a little over a year ago as proof of this. i would like to take this opportunity to commend the excellent work and the great determination of our two co-rapporteurs on this very important matter which, as my colleagues have said, will be settled tomorrow. after some blockages, arguments and legal wrangling, we are almost there. i would say two things: it is an important day, of course, and i agree with everything that has been said about all the victims in europe who are sometimes, and unjustly, the most forgotten, since we talk much more often about the rights of the accused than about the rights of the victims. so today is a great day for the victims. but it is also a great step for the european union, because we have not only innovated the procedure, with the two committees in constant contact and dialogue with the commissioner, but we have also created a legal tool. the european union will thus have both a wider scope and a greater expression of freedom of movement with this very interesting legal instrument which today sounds to us as a matter of course, as an almost logical, natural, legal extension in the ever more advanced construction of the european union. the road has been long, but today we are witnessing and acting together to make great progress in criminal cooperation and prevention. for this prevention to be as effective and for this legal instrument to be used as little as possible across borders, after this agreement tomorrow we will have to do a lot of work in terms of information, communication and awareness-raising. not only to potential victims, but also to all the authorities who have to implement this element. then tomorrow, as you said, madam commissioner - you will say that we are never satisfied - we will deal with this text on civil protection.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is currently facing major changes: economic, monetary, social, demographic and migration. the changes which are sweeping and shaking europe are considerable and call for a rethinking of european policies. europe is at a turning point and it is our responsibility to meet these challenges. one of the major challenges we will face in the coming years is the shortage of labour. our weak demographic dynamic is the european achilles' heel. by 2050, one in three europeans will be over 65 and 20 million skilled jobs will be unfilled. it would take 3.2 million immigrants a year by 2050 to maintain the age pyramid as it is today. this demographic deficit justifies and makes it necessary to resort to immigration. it is time to accept this state of affairs, to take stock of these changes and finally to act accordingly. the european commission, aware of this problem, has proposed a set of measures: the blue card directive in 2009, the single permit directive, the directive on seasonal workers and intra-group transfers seek to address these issues. the time has come to seize this opportunity. the single permit directive is partly a response to this labour force crisis which is looming on the european horizon. it also makes it possible to control the workforce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the single european act allows workers from third countries to come to work in europe on a harmonised and regulated basis. it protects workers in third countries from smugglers and other mafia networks who exploit and abuse their vulnerability. the procedures for applying for permits are greatly simplified. a single residence and work permit can be obtained in a maximum of four months. applications may be submitted by the employer in europe or by the worker in the third country in which he is present. in addition, there is a right of appeal in the member state procedure in which the person makes the request. the information on the single permit is also standardised and clarified for the whole of the european union. these are the same as those on the work permit. additional information may be requested. they remain optional and their content is very limited. the single permit, in addition to considerably simplifying the procedures for residence and work permits, makes it possible to assign a common set of rights to workers from third countries and to workers from the european union. until now, there has been a real disparity between member states, and we could not be satisfied with that. it was abnormal not to recognize the rights of foreign workers who contribute so much to our economies. this is a just and necessary step. equal treatment of workers is at the heart of this directive, which places workers from third countries on an equal footing with european workers. workers from third countries enjoy the same rights as european workers as regards their wages and dismissal conditions. the same rules also apply to the recognition of diplomas, freedom of association and membership of a professional organisation, social security, tax benefits and access to public goods and services. in addition, people who have a job will benefit from equal treatment in access to education and employment. employment services will also be available to the unemployed and, therefore, to those who need them most. the export of pensions will no longer be subject to the existence of bilateral agreements between member states and third countries. equal treatment will be the rule here too. this is a step forward in recognising the value of the work of citizens from third countries and taking this into account when assuring them of their pension rights. as a member of the group of the european people's party, i am very proud to have taken part in these long negotiations. i would like to thank the european commission, and especially cecilia malmström and her services, who have made it possible for the directive to come into being. i also thank the successive presidencies - spanish, belgian, hungarian and polish - for their commitment. i thank my colleagues in this house for their relevant proposals and their support in the negotiations. we can now rejoice in the result of our efforts. this is a welcome development and reflects the image of a europe of dignity and justice, which respects every worker who contributes to european growth.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am certainly not going to intervene in the polemics which have started in this house. i think this is a question to be solved by the house itself. regarding the numbers of migrant workers, i would like to say that this proposal gives the freedom to each member state to decide for itself how many migrant workers it wishes to accept. let me also underline that those migrant workers pay taxes and social security contributions when working legally, as well as contributing to the cultural richness of our societies. to those who suggest that the equal treatment provisions allow for too many limitations – i agree that the rapporteur seems to be right in the middle because there are opinions on both sides, to one extreme and to the other – i would like to underline that the primary aim of the commission was to ensure workers’ rights as regards employment-related rights and those earned through contribution. this means, for example, the need to ensure work-related vocational training but not necessarily completely equal treatment as regards education in general. secondly, one of the objectives of this directive is to establish a level playing field for migrant workers from day one without any minimum employment period. let me also point out that the outcome of the political agreement resulted in provisions which are even more inclusive than the original commission proposal as regards access to social security for unemployed migrants and freedom of association. some restrictions are introduced on access to education and housing, but the work-related rights in vocational training are kept, which in the commission’s opinion results in a balanced approach. here of course i am also speaking for the relevant commissioner, my colleague cecilia malmström. at the end of this long but fruitful negotiation process on a highly important proposal in the area of legal migration, i sincerely hope that parliament will come to an agreement and adopt a directive that will ensure the equal treatment of legally residing migrant workers so that they can benefit fully from employment-related rights. such a directive should be seen as a first, and an important, step to be completed later on by other instruments, such as the ones dealing with seasonal workers and intra-corporate transferees.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, as you said, madam commissioner, there are very different views from one side of the house to the other and we will not have to argue about it. i think that there will be no more time for polemics when we adopt this recommendation in the house tomorrow. this single permit directive is a great step forward for the european institutions, for the european union, for workers from third countries and also for employers in the european union and for our future labour market, because as we have said, as some of you have said, we will need labour in the years to come and we will rely on workers from third countries. i will therefore be particularly pleased when parliament adopts this recommendation for the single permit and this proposal for a directive which the commission has been putting forward since 2007. we have had many debates on this for the last four years. i regret, however, that a number of members of the socialist party did not want to vote on this proposal last week in the libe committee. i also regret what mr cercas said earlier and i regret that he is not here. i will speak to him about it and, in any case, i was sorry to hear what he said about the little bureaucrats - who i would like to say have always been with us in the trilogues or in the meetings of fictitious rapporteurs - whether they belong to the political groups, the council, the commission or parliament. i can tell you that it was very pleasant and very informative; fortunately, we had them on our side, which was not always the case with mr cercas because we have not seen him much in the trilogue lately. fortunately, and i thank them very much for their support.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council paved the way last thursday and friday for the governance of the euro area. it showed that the time of waiting, doubt and division was now behind us and that the hour of the crisis exit was finally predictable. by setting strict rules for the return to budgetary balance and the reduction of public debts, 26 out of 27 states have demonstrated their willingness to return to a sound financial policy, and have agreed to incorporate these rules into their constitutions and to ensure that non-compliance with them is punished. twenty-six of the 27 member states have shown a spirit of responsibility by ensuring that their major political and economic decisions are taken together and by developing emergency mechanisms to be implemented by the ecb. twenty-six out of twenty-seven states have admitted that shared sovereignty is preferable to a sovereignty held hostage by markets. in the end, the spirit of cooperation prevailed over the attempt at division. the determination was stronger than the indecision. three major questions remain: the nature of the new agreement, the place of the united kingdom in europe and the attitude of the twenty-six towards it, and finally the essential 'growth' aspect of our economic policy. ladies and gentlemen, since the united kingdom has refused to join the decision of its peers, the resulting project is not, as we wished, of a community nature - as i have often said - but of an intergovernmental nature. this situation raises a number of problems, not only legal but also political. my group wants the european institutions to be fully involved in the discussions leading to the drafting of the new provisions by march and, in particular, to give parliament its rightful place in order to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of this process. i make a solemn appeal to mr van rompuy and mr barroso to work closely with the european parliament. we must prevent the spirit and the letter of what has been achieved over the last 60 years and which has made the european project a success from being fundamentally changed. cohesion must continue to prevail over the balance of power, which can only be guaranteed by the community method. the second major question - and i shall address it - raised by the decision of 9 december is the place of the united kingdom in europe. i respect the decisions, but obviously the british isolation shows that the british government sees the european union as a mere free trade area, with no regard for solidarity and responsibility towards its partners. i believe that this implies a change in the attitude of the twenty-six and, to a certain extent, of the european institutions towards that country. in particular, i believe that the british cheque should be called into question, that the money of our fellow citizens should be used for something other than rewarding selfish and nationalistic attitudes. solidarity is not a one-way street. it is time to make this clear to mr cameron's coalition government and remind it of its obligations, particularly on the financial regulation rules for which it has even asked for a derogation, fortunately refused. third and last question: the growth and employment aspect of our economic policy. of course, there can be no growth without putting public accounts in order, but the union must now work with the same energy and in the same coordinated way to strengthen and develop its industrial activities, its exports and its competitiveness. europe will not emerge from the crisis in a lasting way without a radical double action of sound management on the one hand and growth on the other. as far as parliament is concerned, i believe that we must work closely with the commission, on the basis of the proposals it made two months ago, i believe, mr president, to get out of the crisis, and that we must vote by a very large majority in february. that is what i propose as homework for the christmas holidays and on that, i wish you all, and your families, a very nice holiday. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to reassure my colleague. i don't have a tank or a kalashnikov until christmas. so he's not risking anything for the christmas holidays, that's already guaranteed, dear colleague. secondly, i said: 'if the solidarity of the united kingdom, for the moment, has been abandoned, in my view, with the other 26 states, i do not see why the 26 would make an additional gesture on the budget.' i want to make it quite clear that this is not a declaration of war, but simply solidarity between all of us, and not just in one direction. there you go!
question for the council mr president, very quickly, i would simply like to ask my colleague what the positions of the liberal governments at european level are.
mr president, there are two democratic institutions in europe: the council, which represents the elected heads of state and government, and the european parliament, which is elected by universal suffrage. for two years the council has been the only one to respond to the crisis and for two years it has failed. he fails every three months by climbing a new peak which is the last chance. i am giving you an appointment in three months' time at the next and next last chance summit, because last week's summit did not resolve any of the issues that were on the table. when you listen to the rating agencies -- the famous financial markets that you want to reassure -- what do they say? it does not say, "no more austerity, no more discipline". they say: "a comprehensive package, including budgetary discipline". no one disputes the need for this path, but it is only one dimension of the package and not the only one. we know very well that today, with this package, with the results of this summit, you have further alarmed the people without even reassuring the markets. so it's a shot in the dark. see you in three months! but there is a second european institution which is democratic: the european parliament. our responsibility - as mr schulz, mr daul and mrs rebecca harms have said - is to take note today of the fact that we must take the lead in defining an alternative contingency plan, which sets out a different path from that of the council, which is that of failure. our responsibility is not simply to vote on a resolution, but to use all the powers that the treaties give us, to do our utmost, to take our responsibilities and to be able to find compromises among ourselves. if we are not able to find compromises between ourselves, then we will no longer have any legitimacy to criticize those who are not able to find them, but we have three months to do so. it is our responsibility, the citizens of europe are watching us.
mr president, the umpteenth european summit of the last chance will very likely have the same results as the previous ones. in its forced march towards technocratic federalism in the most total disregard of the elementary rules of democracy, this summit has set in stone the policy of austerity and the submission of national budgets to the dictates of the commission and the court of justice with, at the core, automatic financial sanctions for the states. markets dreamed of it, governments did it. the consequences will be a collapse in consumption and an explosion in our public deficits. the problem of sovereign debt is not behind us, it is ahead of us. one thing remains, however, and it is the real beneficiaries of this umpteenth summit for nothing. once again, the banking and financial sector is privileged, to the detriment of the states and taxpayers. europeans are watching, powerless, as private debt is being transferred onto their shoulders, with the complicity of a political class at the service of the banks and the financial markets. this, the people will not forgive you!
mr president, i think that this agreement raises a number of questions. the first of these is the following. this agreement was presented as a historic, decisive and solution to the crisis. i'm not at all sure. i think it is just one more step, not necessarily the best, and obviously it will not be able to solve the crisis. i am afraid that the answer is no. in fact, in the economic, social and financial uncertainties we are living through, it is not very relevant to add periods of legal uncertainty. that's my first point. as regards the content, we were told that budgetary discipline would be made constitutional. i think this deal is lame. the europe we need is a europe which has budgetary discipline on the one hand and budgetary solidarity on the other. as you said, mr barroso, we cannot have one without the other, or the other without the other! it is enough to consider that europe can guarantee, through the ecb, attractive loans to indebted countries, provided that they carry out the structural reforms that are needed at home, not because europe asks them to, but for themselves. so the two must go together. the last point is that we are told that we are going to build an intergovernmental europe. i think this is a mistake. it is a mistake to deny community inspiration. it is a mistake to turn away from community institutions, democracy and democratic control of our institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first a few thoughts on the currency. the nineteenth century was dominated by the pound sterling, the twentieth century by the dollar; in the 21st century, we don't know how currencies will organize themselves. that's one of the issues that the g20 chairman brought to the table. we have a duty to organise the management of our currency. traditionally, we had a currency for a state. we are experimenting with a currency for one region, a supranational currency. it is good news, mr president, that we have achieved this economic zone of 26 states. hungary, which changed its mind, denmark, which was not obliged to, joined the eurozone. that's good news! the united kingdom is a large european country. we know why it did not join the euro area: it is because of financial services, as you said, mr president. and because in reality he does not want a financial transaction tax, for which a political consensus is emerging. the second good news is financial stability. all our great democracies except greece which is a special case - the findings say so - have changed their governments, have taken serious measures on financial management. we are in the process of organizing the financial stability of our continent. that's good news! i do not believe in contagion and we must uphold the golden rules and reform our stability pact. there are two issues that are not resolved. first, the growth. mr president, i think it is time for a specific european council to examine the conditions for growth and a major european investment plan. secondly, the enormous disappointment of the democrats, who have not heard a word - contrary to the letter from mrs merkel and president sarkozy - about a parliamentary dimension. it is not normal that the heads of state or government have not given a parliamentary dimension to economic governance! i suggest you do something about it. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i share your view. i do not understand the question, but i think we are in agreement, colleague. i believe that the problem that has not been solved is that of the broad guidelines for growth of the european union, in cooperation with the member states. that is why i repeat my proposal: that the next european council should lay down the broad guidelines for growth. we know the two great directions. first, a major infrastructure investment plan - the president of the european commission recalled this - with project bonds. secondly, an internal market which can be more than 27 national markets, with flexicurity, and in which we will find the point or two of growth we need, both to pay off our debts and to finance social progress with the economic wealth we are going to create.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vibes that accompanied this agreement have already died down. who would be surprised? the package does not provide any immediate response to the crisis: no debt mutualisation by european bonds supported by mr van rompuy , no strengthening of the efsf or a banking licence allowing it to source from the ecb, which will not intervene in sovereign debts. what about the financial transaction tax, as an instrument of fiscal justice and as an own resource? but maybe there's no more urgency. after all, mr sarkozy, after having two rigorous plans adopted in the name of maintaining the triple a, said yesterday that a deterioration of this rating was not so insurmountable. who are we kidding? in the longer term, it is an agreement of sanction and fear, which will put the heads of the states, already in difficulty, a little further under water. the austerity policies decreed by "merkozy" are about to plunge europe back into recession, and europeans back into unemployment. where's the solidarity? where are growth and employment? europe is not a poor union, but it still needs to revitalise its industry, develop its infrastructure and give its young people a future. this requires investments which the member states and the union must be allowed to finance. that is why we are taking up this treaty. and if another decision is needed, it is up to the democratic short-circuits of the national parliaments and the european parliament. how can we explain that a future candidate for the french presidential elections does not consult either the opposition parties or his parliament before requesting the signature of france? no one can understand or accept it.
in writing. the new treaty that the german right wants to be adopted would deprive the member states of fiscal policy, imposing on them austerity policies that are about to plunge europe into recession without reducing deficits. economic policy choices would be enshrined in the constitutions and subject to the authority of a court of justice. automatic sanctions would be applied to countries with government deficits exceeding 3% of gdp. but this treaty does not provide for any response to the economic and social emergency: neither eurobonds nor intervention by the ecb on the primary market to buy government bonds. why, then, should we be surprised by the rise of euroscepticism? it is becoming urgent to show that a progressive economic strategy is possible. we call for the creation of a european treasury, of which the efsf could be the embryo, and an independent rating agency, backed by the european court of auditors. the power to rate sovereign debts would be taken away from private agencies, which have clear conflicts of interest. we also propose an investment pact to boost the economy by excluding investment expenditure from the calculation of government deficits. with an increased community budget through eurobonds and the ftt, we would finance the upward convergence of competitiveness levels and social and fiscal standards.
in writing. the conclusions of the last european council are extremely serious. their keywords are 'discipline' and 'sanction', imposed by technocratic and supranational authorities which now impose budgetary and economic choices on states outside national parliaments. by refusing to ask the european central bank to buy up all or part of the debt of states in difficulty, the council has decided to give the financial markets carte blanche. worse, it was decided that the central bank would lend unlimited amounts for three years at 1% to private banks, thus enabling them to enrich themselves by punching the states, and therefore the people, by lending to the states at high interest rates. democracy and popular sovereignty are threatened, the principle of justice seriously attacked. this project is very disturbing. i'd call to fight him.
i am speaking on behalf of the committee on budgets. mr president, on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would ask you to submit to our assembly, before the single vote, the vote on an amendment which was adopted unanimously by the committee on budgets last night. it is a late amendment, which we have not been able to translate into all the languages because of lack of time. but we had no choice, and this is a very important amendment politically. after the agreement reached last week in the trilogue on the financing of the iter project, the council - as we learned yesterday afternoon - adopted the agreement unanimously, but with a unilateral declaration signed by six member states, which gives an interpretation of the agreement contrary to that given by the parliament's delegation. it therefore seemed necessary to the committee on budgets that this morning parliament should solemnly recall its interpretation, otherwise we would not have given this agreement in the trilogue. in these circumstances, i would ask for rule 161 (3) of our rules of procedure to be applied, which allows this amendment to be put to the vote, even if it is late, given the exceptional circumstances.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we are in the process of consulting on the appointment of the members of the court of auditors. i would remind you that the european court of auditors is composed of 27 members. article 286 of the treaty provides that the members shall be appointed by the council after consulting the parliament. we are conducting a consultation today which will be referred to the council. it is therefore the governments that propose the names, and the european parliament that gives an opinion. we have a group of eight members, proposed by eight states: belgium, denmark, spain, finland, ireland, italy, portugal and sweden. of these, four have recently had their governments changed: belgium, italy, denmark and spain. two states without elections and two with elections: belgium and italy without elections, denmark and spain with elections. of these four states, one, the kingdom of spain, has seen its political forces change - i was at the summit of the european people's party group in marseille - while the other three states have asked for nothing. as regards spain, the spanish political forces have asked me to ask parliament to postpone the vote - as far as possible under rule 108 of our rules of procedure - to give them time to assess the situation. the king will appoint the government there next week. the request to our parliament is to postpone the vote, and it was the group of the european people's party that asked you to do so, mr president.
in writing. iter is a joint fusion research programme between the european union, the united states, china, russia, japan and south korea. the iter site in cadarache is scheduled for completion in 2018. the project, which is half-financed by the european union, requires more funds. i therefore voted in favour of the böge report, considering that a revision of the multiannual financial framework is necessary. this support for the iter project will not only contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 research and innovation strategy objectives, but also to reduce europe's energy dependence in the long term. this release of funds will be achieved by saving in other sectors.
in writing. i voted for the revision of the multiannual financial framework to meet the additional funding needs of the iter project. this amount is eur 1.3 billion. my first words will be to pay tribute to the immense work done by alain lamassoure, chairman of the committee on budgets, in bringing together the views of the public by putting the european interest and the european peoples first. we know, as generations before us, that we will solve our challenges by relying on the scientific genius of man. the same is true of energy. moreover, it was becoming urgent to convey to our international partners in this remarkable project the message that we can meet our commitments.
in writing. how and to what extent should iter be financed? the subject is regularly on the agenda of the european parliament. just at the last session, another 100 million were approved for 2012. today, a completely different amount was voted: an additional 1.3 billion euros will be spent on the project in 2012 and 2013. as i have already said, we can agree to nuclear research, but not to a monopoly. research needs to be diversified, especially as iter's budget has been steadily increasing since its launch in 2006. in this period of austerity, iter must now make do with the means at its disposal. i deeply regret this increase in appropriations and the financial tinkering that is planned, not to mention the 360 million to be redeployed in 2013 whose origin is not specified... i therefore voted against this agreement: iter must be done with the means that exist!
in writing. the iter project now requires additional funding to achieve its objectives. in this context, it was decided to mobilise an additional amount of eur 1.3 billion for 2012 and 2013. the european union is thus showing that it is not abandoning this project, even though the medium and long-term benefits of iter could be considerable. this ambitious programme not only promotes research, innovation and employment, but also meets europe's objective of diversifying energy sources by focusing on the discovery of safer and cleaner energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this revision of the multiannual financial framework which will allow the iter programme to continue for the next two years. the european union must give political and financial support to the flagship programmes which give it real added value and credibility vis-à-vis our partners. this solution will be a breath of fresh air for the european scientific community, but also for the economy of our territories such as the cadarache region. the union must also strengthen its commitment to the gmes programme, a source of european pride.
in writing. i voted against the böge report on the revision of the multiannual financial framework to meet the additional funding needs of the iter project. although the greens have succeeded in limiting the budget cuts to other european projects for iter, nearly 840 million of the €1.3 billion needed will be financed by new contributions from the member states. the question is still whether we can develop nuclear power.
in writing. i welcome the decision on the funding of iter which will enable the european union to meet its international commitments and demonstrate the ability of the two arms of the budgetary authority of the european union to reach a balanced agreement which preserves the rights of the european parliament. above all, support for this innovative project could, in the long run, guarantee europe's energy independence. the financing of the extra costs of the nuclear fusion research programme was a key issue in the budget negotiations. as a result, an additional €1.2 billion in commitment appropriations will be made available to iter over the next two years. this is in addition to the €100 million already earmarked in the 2012 eu budget. the agreement reached ensures a balanced distribution of expenditure from the following resources: eur 100 million will be covered by redeployments for 2012 and eur 850 million from the 2011 budget surplus. the remaining additional costs will be financed from the 2013 budget.
in writing. it's a hard battle we just won. after months of negotiations, we have just given a new lease of life to the iter programme, with an additional eur 1.3 billion in 2012 and 2013. i note that we were able to count on the support of the majority of french socialist meps. the fukushima accident has raised fears about nuclear power, especially in france. these are all human concerns. the iter programme was launched to improve knowledge and control of nuclear energy. it is strengthening research cooperation through its european partnership. there is no such thing as zero risk, do we need to remind you? but nuclear safety has always been and remains the sine qua non of the development of this energy. it ensures our independence and access to cheaper energy. i voted in favour of this text because we have national and european expertise to defend in the management of this energy. in this time of crisis and gloom, it is essential to preserve our economic assets and to ensure the maintenance of hundreds of thousands of jobs and a highly skilled workforce in our territory.
in writing. i voted against this increase in funding for the iter project. nuclear research is funded by the european budget with eur 2.7 billion from the euratom subprogramme and eur 4 billion specifically for the iter project. with this additional 1.3 billion euros, the european union will spend 8 billion euros on nuclear research, compared with 2.4 billion euros allocated to other energy research, of which only 1.6 billion euros are for renewable energies. at a time when nuclear safety is more important than ever, a minimum rebalancing of research programmes should be necessary. and we should ask ourselves what these extra costs are. worse still, in this period of radical austerity imposed on the people, the union should be asking itself how such colossal sums could be used more appropriately. this stubbornness about nuclear power is harmful to the public debate which should take place on the question of energy and the place of nuclear power. the union should help to open the debate.
in writing. in the event of unforeseen financial needs, the budgetary procedure of the european union authorises the european commission to propose amendments to the current budget. the commission therefore presented various draft amending budgets for the 2011 budget. the european parliament, which has budgetary powers, discusses the commission's proposals and votes on draft amendments. the draft amendment on the agenda of this plenary session concerned the eu solidarity fund. the eu solidarity fund was set up in 2002 to meet the needs of member states affected by natural disasters and provides emergency financial assistance. following the floods in veneto and the earthquakes in lorca, italy and spain have asked the eu for help, which i have supported. in such situations, the member states must show solidarity!
in writing. i voted in favour of this amending budget which will make it possible to provide european support to these two areas affected by major natural disasters. the allocation of these funds once again underlines the need for european solidarity when our populations are faced with unprecedented difficulties and threaten the local socioeconomic balance.
in writing. the lorca earthquake in spain last may and the floods in venice, italy, at the end of 2010 require the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, designed to help european regions affected by natural disasters. a total of eur 38 million will therefore be allocated to the reconstruction of these two regions (eur 21.1 million for spain and eur 16.9 million for veneto). the fund, which embodies european solidarity, helps to rationalise eu spending by reallocating funds originally earmarked for rural development programmes which have not been used.
in writing. i voted in favour of the use of the solidarity fund to provide european support to these two areas hit by major natural disasters. the allocation of these funds once again underlines the need for european solidarity when our populations are faced with unprecedented difficulties and threaten the local socioeconomic balance.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support european workers who have lost their jobs. it allows them to reintegrate professionally. exceptionally, the financial and economic crisis is a sufficient reason for a member state to apply for a grant. the construction sector in the trentino-alto adige region of northern italy, which has been hit by the crisis, is experiencing several waves of redundancies. in an effort to show solidarity with italy, the european parliament adopted a resolution, which i supported, unlocking €3.9 million in aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers facing redundancies in the construction sector caused by the decline in private investment in the property sector. by allowing this fund to be allocated, the european union is showing solidarity with our workers affected by the crisis and is supporting the vocational reintegration of these people.
in writing. within the union, criminal proceedings are different. in many member states, an individual suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence is not always informed of his or her rights in a clear and precise manner. that is why i voted in favour of new european rules to guarantee the right to a fair trial. in addition to being informed of basic procedural rights (right to a lawyer, right to remain silent, right to an interpreter, etc.), the accused will receive a written declaration of rights (right to urgent health care, right to know the length of detention before appearing before a judicial authority, etc.).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which ensures legal protection for all our citizens across the eu member states and builds confidence in the eu's single area of justice. this will make it easier for citizens to express their views in litigation in a language they understand, wherever they are in the european union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this draft directive, which complements the legal arsenal we are developing at european level in the field of procedural guarantees. in december 2009, the council adopted the stockholm programme, which sets out the priorities for the establishment of a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice. it is an ambitious programme, particularly in terms of procedural guarantees, through the establishment of a minimum set of procedural rights to be granted to persons involved in criminal proceedings. the rights of these people must be strengthened and a balance must be struck between the considerable progress made in cooperation on the part of the prosecution and the long delay in the rights of the defence. the text adopted today is the second measure adopted in this area, with another directive on the right of access to a lawyer currently being discussed within the european institutions, and a directive on legal aid planned for 2012. the adoption of this directive represents real progress, but there is still a long way to go before we have real guarantees for the rights of the defence within the european union.
in writing. following the adoption of an initial text on the right to interpretation and translation, this vote is timely in contributing to the coherence of a system that ensures sufficient protection of the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons across europe. that is why i voted in favour of the text negotiated by my colleague birgit sippel on the bill of rights. we must ensure that every person arrested and then detained is given, in writing and in a language he understands, not only all the rights to which he may be entitled, such as the right to translation or interpretation, the right to know the charges against him or the right to counsel, but also the right to remain silent, the right to urgent medical care and the right to contact his family. the next step for us will be to defend the right of access to a lawyer as soon as the suspect is apprehended, and whatever the council says in its unilateral statement that while it accepts the main principles of informing suspects, it does not mean that it accepts all the proposals put forward by the european commission.
in writing. the completion of the internal market requires the creation of a single area of justice, operating under common rules and ensuring that citizens' rights are guaranteed in a uniform manner. thus, any european citizen suspected of a crime within the union must have his or her fundamental rights respected in any member state. i welcome the adoption of the birgit sippel report in this respect. this text, by establishing common minimum standards, ensures a right to information within the union, valid as soon as the person is informed that he is the subject of suspicion. this immediacy of information is, in my view, paramount. i also welcome the extension of the range of rights associated with this right to information, which makes it quite satisfactory as it covers both translation, interpretation, assistance by a lawyer, information on the charge, access to evidence or the right to remain silent, and the provision of a statement of rights containing information on the legal conditions of arrest and detention. although this text is only a step in the roadmap on procedural rights, the provisions it contains are indispensable. i hope that they will be addressed in the future comprehensive legislative package that the commission will present shortly.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of karel pinxten as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are proposed for voting.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of henrik otbo as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are proposed for voting.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of ville itälä as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are proposed for voting.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are put to the vote.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of pietro russo as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are put to the vote.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of vítor manuel da silva caldeira as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are proposed for voting.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the proposed appointment of hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors because of 8 candidates for the court of auditors, no women are put to the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports on the proposed appointment of seven new members of the european court of auditors. the mandate of the eight members of the european parliament from belgium, portugal, sweden, denmark, spain, finland, ireland and italy expires on 29 february 2012. although the irish member's candidacy may have been called into question, his additional replies to parliament indicate that his candidacy is in accordance with the treaty as regards his audit experience and his morality. i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the spanish candidate, who was appointed by the government which recently lost the elections in spain. the new government should be able to choose the candidate it wishes to appoint as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this initiative for a harmonisation of victim protection within the eu because it will protect our fellow citizens, and in particular women, from psychological or sexual threats to them wherever they are on european soil. facilitating the mobility of our citizens within the european union must also be accompanied by harmonizing the protection and rights of everyone.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this directive because it will change the daily lives of many people particularly women and make them safer from their abusers. the european protection order is fundamental to help victims benefit from decisions issued by a national authority, valid in all eu countries, including a prohibition on the aggressor approaching the victim within a certain distance if there is a court decision to that effect, contacting the victim (by telephone, fax, mail, internet, etc.), going to certain defined places, such as the victim's home or places she frequents. finally, i welcome the adoption of a provision whereby, in the event of a violation of this decision, the member state of reception of the victim could impose penalties on the aggressor, whether criminal or not: this is an essential guarantee to restore calm to the victims of unacceptable violence.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the report introducing the directive on a european protection order. this new instrument will enable a person protected by criminal law in one eu country to benefit from similar protection when travelling to another member state, if he or she so requests. this new instrument will greatly help victims of violence to lead a normal life in another member state of the european union. originally designed to protect victims of gender-based violence across the european union, the scope of this tool has been extended to protect any victim of any form of violence (harassment, abduction, stalking or attempted murder), both men and women, who can benefit from this new protection. this is a further step towards the establishment of a european area of justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european protection decision, which will allow us to take an important step towards establishing genuine crossborder protection for victims of violence. the text will concern victims who are protected in a member state, in accordance with their national criminal law, because of an act or behaviour which has been established to be likely to endanger their life or physical, psychological or sexual integrity. in many cases, the member state of the victims then prohibits the aggressor from going near the residence of the person subject to the protection measure or to places frequented by the person, or provides for a prohibition on contact or approach to the victim. from now on, these victims will be able to apply for a 'european protection decision' to extend this protection to other member states where they wish to go (or already reside). thanks to parliament's action, this decision can also be extended to the family of the protected persons. i am very concerned about the protection of victims and i regard this text as a step forward which will soon be complemented by our work on the civil aspect.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to harmonise the protection of victims of different types of crime in the different member states: sexual violence, harassment, abduction, persecution or attempted murder. the aim is, in theory, to prevent such crimes and offences as well as to mitigate the consequences for the victims. the aim is to protect more specifically those affected in their physical and/or sexual integrity. these people are mostly women. it is also necessary to approximate the laws and judicial systems of the member states. however, these advances have not been achieved without difficulty. it took almost a year for the council to take a decision on the first proposal voted by the european parliament. it is obviously much more difficult to harmonize criminal legislation in the interests of vulnerable populations than to amend the treaties to impose budgetary austerity. understand who can.
in writing. the single permit was a commendable initiative at the outset. today's vote is a step forward, but the directive is far from the idea of a framework directive. the single permit should have been the framework directive for an immigration package, creating the same conditions for all on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, without excluding categories of workers. the risk of a fragmented labour market exists here: equal treatment is accompanied by many exceptions and certain categories of workers are excluded from the scope. the report is therefore mixed, but the current negotiations on the sectoral directives resulting from the single permit are continuing and they give us the opportunity to do better. we are currently advocating in the european parliament a progressive vision of the rights of movement and social rights for a particularly vulnerable category, namely seasonal workers. this immigration package will only be progress if it brings with it an improvement in the living and working conditions of workers from third countries.
in writing. with the adoption of the single permit, we have taken a further step towards equal treatment of workers, but also towards the development of a coherent immigration policy, by reducing the inequality of rights between citizens of the union and third-country nationals legally working in a member state. the single permit directive thus complements other measures on legal immigration, such as the blue card, and should also facilitate immigration insofar as it meets the needs of the european labour market. the 'single permit' will make it possible to obtain a work and residence permit by means of a single procedure, thus greatly reducing administrative formalities. holders of a single permit will be able to enjoy a set of basic rights comparable to those of eu workers, such as basic decent working conditions, recognition of qualifications, the right to join trade unions and access to pensions, social security. the aim is to create equivalent minimum conditions throughout the union, to recognise that such third country nationals contribute, through their work and the taxes they pay, to the union's economy.
in writing. after numerous trilogues and a failed first reading, parliament voted in favour of the draft directive on the creation of a single residence and work permit for third-country nationals. last year, when we voted on the first reading, i voted against this draft directive because it allowed the member states to issue additional documents in addition to the single permit, totally ruining the very idea of the 'single permit'. the revised text deletes this reference and calls on the member states to draw up 'correspondence tables' which enable the commission to check the transposition of the directive. that is why i voted for this new text, which provides for a single application procedure which is simpler, faster for people wishing to come to work in the territory of a state, and guarantees a common base of rights to be granted to these workers. it is true that the text is not perfect. i would have liked this text to be much more comprehensive and not to exclude certain categories of workers such as posted workers or seasonal workers, or to guarantee more rights. but i think that a lot of progress has been made in the negotiations, particularly with regard to working conditions, access to vocational training and pension rights, etc.
in writing. i abstained on the adoption of this single licence, which has only one name. the council has also adopted a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, even if the result is not what the socialists wanted, there are several positive elements: firstly, workers from third countries covered by this directive will now be able to enjoy the transfer of their pension rights under the same conditions as nationals of the member state where they worked, and secondly, the principle of equal treatment prevails for vocational training, access to advice provided by employment services, access to housing and the right to associate and join a trade union organisation. with a council and a european parliament dominated by the right, it seemed difficult to go any further, even if the overall result remains unsatisfactory.
in writing. i am against this legislation merging the applications for residence and work permits of migrants into a single procedure: it puts a new corner in the equality between all employees and the rights of certain workers. there will be no more workers, but european and non-european wage-earners, not to mention illegal immigrant workers. worse still, this text establishes a link between residence permits and work permits and makes the former dependent on the duration of the latter. the european union, which prides itself on defending human and social rights, decides to consider migrants only as a simple adjustment variable of the workforce that does not deserve the same rights as other employees. what is presented as progress is in reality nothing more than the institutionalisation of the growing inequality between all those living in the union. the european parliament rejected this text at first reading a year ago, so it is difficult to understand why some members have changed their position, when the text before us today is virtually identical to that at first reading.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, european solidarity is more relevant than ever. this european solidarity is at the heart of the union's rural development policy, which provides support to regions with economic backwardness through the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). at present, some member states are no longer able to co-finance certain development projects because of a lack of liquidity. in favour of a strong rural development policy, i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution to temporarily increase the co-financing rate for certain projects (which can be increased to 95% in very specific cases). these projects will be targeted and will have to contribute to the economic recovery of greece and portugal in particular.
in writing. with the adoption of the paolo de castro report, the eu finally seems to be able to be both helpful and supportive. in order to respond to the crisis, europe decided to take transitional measures until the end of 2013, granting member states in financial difficulty such as greece, romania and portugal very favourable co-financing rates of up to 95% to finance rural development projects to encourage economic recovery. i supported the increase in eafrd co-financing rates to ensure that eu countries with weak growth prospects and weak public finances do not see their projects halted on the ground. however, this positive approach to supporting countries in financial difficulty with regard to rural development must also be accompanied by a similar approach in these countries for regional development projects. it is by ensuring synergy between the projects financed by the various european funds that we can make an effective and lasting contribution to the economic development and growth of these states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which makes it possible to temporarily support the european states most in difficulty by relieving them of part of the funding for national social policy and rural development. this is a good example of how european funds can be better allocated to meet the needs of our territories in difficult times without increasing the contribution of our states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the european union needs to increase its support for its regions, especially rural ones, in order to promote economic recovery. the commission proposal to temporarily increase the maximum union co-financing rate for eafrd (european agricultural fund for rural development) programmes in states in difficulty which are beneficiaries of the european financial stabilisation mechanism (euro area) or the balance of payments financial support mechanism (non-euro area) should therefore be supported. the commission proposal is paradoxical, however, since it also supports the franco-german proposal to suspend the disbursement of regional funds to states in difficulty in order to force them to control their public accounts. sanctioning these states by suspending cohesion policy funds, while offering them increased support for eafrd programmes, amounts to arbitrary discrimination against non-agricultural areas. to overcome the economic crisis, the european union must provide support to all regions in difficulty.
in writing. the euro area and europe as a whole is plunged into the most serious crisis since 1945, in an unprecedented financial turmoil. this crisis has struck a number of states with particular violence and threatens the stability of europe as a whole. the agreement reached by the heads of state and government on friday must therefore be accompanied by concrete measures to enable the states most affected by the crisis to continue their investment plans and programmes for the future. because europe is also solidarity. and when funds exist, programmes and projects have been committed, but cannot be implemented because of insufficient resources in states in financial difficulties, it is up to the eu to act quickly by setting up, exceptionally and with the guarantee that it will have no long-term budgetary impact, appropriate financial assistance. the decision to support six countries by temporarily raising the eafrd participation rates and therefore reducing the national contribution is a logical solution and consistent with the decision taken at the end of november to raise the cofinancing rates of the structural funds.
in writing. to help our companies gain market share abroad, we must demand the removal of trade barriers that impede trade between the eu and its trading partners, but also reciprocity in market access. to this end, it is necessary to keep an inventory of such barriers and to set up an early warning mechanism. in view of the growth of world trade outside the european union, it is becoming urgent for the commission to present a legislative proposal on a reciprocity instrument for access to public contracts in third countries. the impact of foreign direct investments on the internal market also needs to be assessed in order to prevent any detrimental consequences they may have on european innovation and know-how in certain strategic sectors. the know-how of our european companies in the fields of infrastructure, transport, construction and high technology is recognised worldwide, so it is up to us to do everything we can to enable them to gain access to new markets.
in writing. free movement is a founding principle of the european economic community and in a world where the interdependence of economies has also revealed its weaknesses, it is essential to consolidate the basis of trade on fairer foundations, where the principle of reciprocity is respected. the fact is that the european union still faces unjustified tariff and regulatory barriers from some of its partners, which limits our companies' access to these high-potential markets and investment. by 2015, 90% of global growth will be generated outside the european union. it's a parameter we can't ignore. it's not a parameter we can ignore. the future of our companies will also be played out beyond our borders. i therefore support the measures proposed in this report to remove these unjustified restrictions: an inventory by the commission of the main obstacles, the establishment of an early warning mechanism, the strengthening of public procurement disciplines which could lead, by next year, to the presentation of a reciprocity instrument for access to public contracts in third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by robert sturdy on barriers to trade and investment. as rapporteur for the imco opinion on this subject, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is setting clear guidelines for the european commission to enable european companies to compete on equal terms with their foreign competitors, especially since by 2015, 90% of global growth will be generated outside the european union. it is therefore important to clearly identify the trade barriers that impede trade between the european union and its trading partners and to remove them in order to help our companies gain market share abroad. the european union's trade policy must be based on the principles of reciprocity, fairness and fair competition. i am also pleased to see that the european parliament supports the idea of launching a reflection at european level on the desirability of assessing the impact of foreign direct investments on the internal market in order to prevent any possible harmful consequences they might have on european innovation and know-how in certain strategic sectors. that was the aim of one of the amendments i tabled.
in writing. for the first time this year, the european commission has taken stock of the barriers to trade and investment that our companies face in third country markets. this initiative, which i welcome, will make it possible to combat these obstacles more effectively and thus help to open up new markets. the european parliament's report on this report proposes complementary solutions, two of which seem particularly interesting to me. first, to keep an up-to-date inventory of these barriers, which companies could consult to better equip themselves before entering a market. the second is to set up an early warning mechanism based on the expertise and knowledge of the field of the union's delegations and embassies and consulates abroad. both of these solutions can be implemented quickly without incurring any additional costs. that is why i supported them in the vote.
in writing. i voted against this report which praises the ultra-liberal dogma: "let us remove all the barriers to world trade (here the non-tariff barriers are in question) and trade will bring prosperity to all those who make it their religion". it goes without saying that in the midst of the economic crisis, when every day brings new unemployed and excluded, this text is a provocation that ignores the worsening of social inequalities and environmental issues. i refuse this free-trade, no-rules, no-morals, forward flight. trade is not just about trade and profit. they must allow the movement of people, ideas and goods, taking into account each country and each population, and serve the building of new solidarities.
mr president, at the risk of offending the most federalist of you, i think that a defence policy is a highly national policy. it addresses the strategic, diplomatic and security needs specific to each nation. the sharing of capabilities is nothing but a curtailment of sovereignty, the single market for military equipment a farcical joke, when certain member states, believing that their defence is guaranteed in washington, equip themselves with american equipment as a matter of priority, europe being incapable, in this field as in so many others, of imposing community preference. as far as the common security challenges of the member states of the union are concerned, there is nothing that cannot be solved by intergovernmental cooperation, apart from any intervention from brussels. i am sorry, but to entrust these areas to mrs ashton would be to recognise that moody's and standard & poor's have a legitimate say in our economic policies, to accept that the merkozy couple can impose a german europe on 27 peoples, pure mental aberration. for thirty years, and even more since the soviet threat disappeared, defence budgets have been the first to be sacrificed on the altar of budgetary rigor, to the point of rendering most of our military instruments deficient or obsolete, and this, in the name of purely financial considerations, each one expecting from the american neighbour or supposed big brother the efforts that it is no longer prepared to make itself. but you're going the wrong way. only by returning to independent and determined national policies can we individually equip ourselves with the means necessary not only for our national security and interests but also for the cooperation of these means to meet common challenges. a combination of weaknesses and shortcomings never made a strength.
mr president, the excellent report by mr lisek highlights the main constraint which is and will continue to be a burden on national and multilateral defence efforts, namely budgetary constraints. another strategic constraint will also weigh on the european countries: the attitude of our american friends and allies, who are no longer willing and able to do everything for us in the field of security. the case of libya illustrates this. in this very constrained context, it is therefore essential to revive the ambition of a common security and defence policy which is strong in terms of both operations and capabilities. on the operational side, madam high representative, you speak a lot - and rightly so - of the so-called global approach which the european union is probably the only one able to promote in the main international crises. it is also your role to ensure that this comprehensive approach does not sacrifice the security and, where appropriate, military elements. it must be truly global, without diluting this safety aspect. this is what you are telling us positively about the strategies for the sahel and the horn of africa, and i welcome that. on the capability side, the role of the european defence agency is obviously to be welcomed, although it is regrettable that there are still obstacles to its budget. i would be grateful if you would give me an update on your appreciation of the efforts being made by the european defence agency. it should also be remembered that in the defence industry, consolidating and supporting our european defence industries - without, of course, excluding their rationalisation - also means supporting jobs and technologies that go far beyond the defence sector alone and are quite strategic for our economies, particularly in times of crisis.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in june 2010, madam high representative, you announced to us your ambition to implement a new european union strategy for human rights and democracy. eighteen months later, here we are. what has come to be known as the arab spring will have further strengthened your ambition. you have paid tribute to the actors of the arab spring and their courage, including the act. as you say in the communication we have just received, the european union has not always acted as efficiently and as coordinatedly as it could have. and the european union has little to do with the democratic advances you praise. you say you are inspired by the work of the european parliament on human rights. i'd like to believe you, but i have some doubts. i'll give you two examples. on page 19 your communication devotes a paragraph to the european parliament, eight lines in fact. and you advise us to step up our efforts beyond the subcommittee on human rights. i admit that this paragraph puzzles me, and i would advise you to read all the european parliament's resolutions on these issues carefully and to integrate them better into your strategy in the future. secondly, the clauses on democracy and human rights. and what is said on pages 12 and 13 of the communication, again, leaves me hungry. yes, since 1995 there have been such clauses in the framework agreements of the european union with third countries. yes, these clauses should, as you say, be taken into account in the free trade negotiations. but we do not see any progress in your communication here, and i regret that. i would like to conclude by saying that i would not, madam high representative, like us to be more demanding of the new democracies than we are ... the president withdrew the floor.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i insist on the last point raised by my colleague, mrs schaake, because it is indeed not only regrettable but also totally ridiculous that the european union and its council have not found the political means to invite turkey to the table to discuss the syrian situation. it is now clear that the future scenario that mrs de keyser hopes for can be developed in the dialogue between turkey, in particular the arab league and the european union. it's true that the scripts are not written, but there are, nevertheless, some assurances. on the one hand, bashar al-assad will fall. he's going down. this is the deep conviction of all of us and, at best, it will be defended in the international criminal court. so he will fall. what makes us say that is the incredible capacity of civil society, not only to mobilize, but to coordinate and organize, at the neighborhood, city level, in a very effective and impressive horizontal network. just look at how the first of the six stages of the general strike in syria was implemented, in which everyone was called to stop going to the mosque, not to buy in the shops, to close the shops before the hour, to stay at home, not to call, to conduct a kind of civil disobedience operation "dead syria", as it is sometimes called "dead city". we see how impressive this organization is. there is really, in front of us, a population that is in a process of civil disobedience, of nonviolent action. i do not really want to go back to what you have said - which is linked to the report of the high commissioner for human rights, and which was taken up by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra - but i do not feel at all that we are today on the verge of civil war. what is certain is that the military, in increasing numbers - the free syrian army - is taking over the protection of the population in coordination with the local committees. we must be useful in this very concrete battle on the ground, which is being fought nonviolently with the defense and protection of the free syrian army. that is where we must be effective, and that requires very simple and very concrete things: the help of radios, communication, intelligence capabilities for this opposition, the capabilities in the field of new technologies that were sold to al-assad and that now have to be provided to the opposition. this is how we can actually strengthen their capacity to act and i believe ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, madam high representative, we all agree, and have been for several months. mr. al-assad has no legitimacy and must leave power. the scale of repression against his own people is simply intolerable. after the european union and the united states, i welcome the decision of the arab league to adopt coercive measures against the syrian regime and to seek the most appropriate means to protect civilians. we must continue to work together with the arab league and turkey. the days of the syrian regime are numbered, but we must keep up the pressure on this unworthy regime, which has already killed nearly 5,000 people. i call on the european union and the international community to take urgent and effective measures to protect the syrian people. on the other hand, the silence of the security council is a scandal. the european union-russia summit this weekend would be an opportunity to recall the human consequences of this repression and to make russia reconsider its position at the un. if these abuses are not stopped soon, the country risks plunging into civil war, and the whole region will suffer the consequences. madam high representative, i encourage you to continue your efforts so that the aspirations expressed by the syrian people can be realised in a future that we all hope will be as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very grateful to mr david and mr siwiec for their excellent report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. since i came in front of the committee on foreign affairs last may to present the new approach to the european neighbourhood policy, both baroness ashton and i have been determined to deliver on the commitments that we have taken. while i am fully aware that much remains to be done, let me give you a few highlights of what has been achieved so far. in line with the principles of mutual accountability and a shared commitment to universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, we have developed a new approach in which our interests and values converge more, investing in democracy. this explains why, for example, we have doubled our financial support to tunisia this year, a country that has organised truly democratic elections and has made tangible progress in the areas of freedoms of expression and association. at the same time, we have taken even tighter sanctions against the regimes of gaddafi in libya, lukashenko in belarus, and bashar al-assad in syria, while simultaneously working to intensify our cooperation with civil society. with these two latter countries, it is no longer business as usual. we have been working hard to deliver on extra european union incentives that, to quote your report, ‘should be given to the neighbourhood countries to engage in the common goal of building deep democracy’. on money, we have overhauled our financial assistance to make our financial incentives more effective. we have set up a new spring programme of eur 350 million for the southern partners and will create a similar one for our eastern partners. the funding of the european investment bank was increased by eur 1 billion, and ebrd eligibility was extended to the southern neighbourhood. the commission has already provided eur 20 million to the european bank for reconstruction and development, to ensure that it can swiftly start its operation in support of the private sector. looking ahead, it will be important to secure adequate funding for our neighbourhood policy under the next financial framework. last week, the commission has approved a 23% increase. i hope that the european parliament will support this ambitious approach. as for access to markets, the commission has asked the council for a mandate to negotiate agreements on deep and comprehensive free-trade areas with morocco, jordan, egypt and tunisia. in the east, we have made progress on the dcfta with ukraine and have also decided to launch negotiations on dcftas with georgia and moldova. as for mobility, we have already launched comprehensive dialogues on migration, mobility and security with tunisia and morocco, which aim at preparing mobility partnerships, including agreements on repatriation of irregular migrants, but also on facilitation of visas for legitimate travel. after those already concluded with georgia and moldova, a new mobility partnership was concluded with armenia on 27 october 2011. of course, the extra incentives will be given as a matter of priority only to those countries that are firmly committed to the process of transformation and political reforms. this is to fully respect the principle ‘more for more’, which is at the heart of the new european neighbourhood policy approach. the renewed enp is not only a partnership with governments; it is also a partnership with societies. the new neighbourhood civil society facility was launched in november with a eur 22 million budget for this year. unlike other existing instruments, this facility aims at empowering civil society to participate more actively in the reforms. we are advancing in the preparation of the european endowment for democracy. in addition, we have stepped up our engagement with civil society organisations in belarus and syria, as they can best support the necessary reforms and political change in those countries. the path of reform will be bumpy and difficult. this is why we need to be persistent in our support to our partners. implementation of the new enp approach needs to remain at the top of our political agenda. this is not only because historic events are taking place on our doorstep. it is because our destinies are linked, and our security depends so much on what happens in these countries. i count on your continued support in this endeavour.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a constitutional obligation, enshrined in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to take account of the objectives of development cooperation, i.e. the fight against poverty, in the implementation of its european neighbourhood policy. the financing of the european neighbourhood policy must be maintained despite the current crisis, but under no circumstances should the union's budgets for development aid be reallocated to financing this policy. moreover, migration relations between the union and its neighbouring countries cannot be reduced to the union's security priorities alone. the protection of human rights, migrants and refugees must also be a focus of future policies. finally, the eeas and the commission must do everything possible to give the union's presence and action in the middle east political weight commensurate with its decisive commitment to humanitarian and development aid.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, in the libe committee we have therefore focused rather on the communication on the new partnership for mobility, for two reasons: because aspirations have been expressed, aspirations for rights, including, it seems to us, the right to mobility, and also because until now our migration policy with these countries was very clearly based on the iron hands of dictators who, fortunately, are no longer in place. we therefore welcome the mobility partnership very much, but we would like to question the link that still exists between readmission agreements, legal migration and the fight against illegal immigration, simply by drawing on the report that has been drawn up by the commission itself on readmission agreements. this report says that implementation is opaque and inconsistent, that the negotiating mandate is unrealistic, that there are serious risks of human rights violations and that even this assessment acknowledges that visa liberalisation has no impact on irregular immigration. i therefore think that we need to think a little deeper and then, above all, develop with these countries an approach that is fully rooted in the mutual benefits of mobility, by establishing a structured dialogue. and when we talk about partnership with civil society - this applies to mobility as well as to other themes - it is absolutely essential that this partnership with civil society, which is the key to success, goes through a concrete mechanism of consultation with civil society at all stages, upstream, in implementation and in evaluation.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking my two colleagues for their report. their work, in close collaboration with all the committees consulted, is an excellent summary of the guidelines we wish to give to this new european neighbourhood policy. first of all, a word on the implementation of the new 'more for more' approach. the announcement last week of a 40% increase in the budget allocated to the european neighbourhood instrument is very positive, especially since, under this new approach, its distribution will respond both to the needs and efforts of the beneficiary countries. of course, good students should be rewarded more than the less diligent ones, but when it comes to learning about democracy, we must be careful to encourage all progress, even the smallest. i do not see this nuance in the commission's communication or in the latest conclusions of the foreign affairs council. another point to make about the union for the mediterranean, which is a key player in bringing the two shores of the mediterranean closer together. involving the upm is an undeniable success factor in areas such as the environment, economic development and youth. the same will apply to support for democratic transitions. but the european union will also have to do its part. as the rapporteurs point out, the multilateral component of the european neighbourhood policy must support the effective and rapid implementation of the union's mediterranean projects.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to two points concerning two of our partners on the southern shore of the mediterranean. first, the concern of many actors in algeria about the current reforms and, in particular, the law on associations that is to be voted in the algerian parliament. algerian civil society fears that this law will lead to a suffocation, due to two novelties. first, any association will have to apply for a permit to exist. secondly, foreign financing, including european financing, will no longer be allowed. secondly, at a time when tunisia is building a state based on the rule of law and negotiating a new constitution, independent judges want our support so that they can work towards establishing the independence of the judiciary and training tunisian judges in transitional justice. commissioner, will you respond to these concerns and requests?
in writing. the european parliament is finally becoming aware of the importance of territorial and regional cooperation in its priorities for the next neighbourhood policy. the core of the previous european neighbourhood policy was based mainly on bilateral enp action plans mutually agreed by the eu and each partner. today we must also think about multilateralism and local cooperation. we must concentrate our efforts on the southern part of this policy, in order to support in the long term the democratic transition of our neighbours on the southern shore, their economic development and their territorial integration. we must therefore strengthen the crossborder component of this neighbourhood policy, since it represents only 5% of the overall budget of the enpi. this strand can serve as a lever for many structural initiatives for cooperation in the mediterranean. the success of a genuine eu-mediterranean partnership requires a better consideration of the aspirations of the peoples, but also a real investment in concrete projects. local and regional cooperation, "woven" on a daily basis between the north and the south, will do as much, if not more, for the democratization of the countries of the south than the major bilateral agreements devoid of operational declinations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear donald tusk, i simply feel like signing your speech this morning instead of speaking. in the end, this is my view of europe, it is our view, at the level of our group, and it is even the view of many in this parliament. on 6 july you gave us your vision of a europe that is proud of its values, its successes, an inclusive europe, a europe confident in its ability to influence the world. we share that vision. and paradoxically, the crisis we are going through can be a unique opportunity for europeans to be enthusiastic again, to bounce back, if we can adapt, if we can change our habits and our ways of working. mr. prime minister, you have suffered again, and you know what suffering is. the old europe no longer knows what it is to suffer. mr president-in-office of the council, your government - i will take only three examples of what you have mentioned - has helped to achieve the six-pack on economic governance throughout your presidency. by working closely with the european parliament on an ambitious package of sound management of national public finances, the polish presidency has demonstrated that the community method can be effective and can very well go hand in hand with the euro and the european union. the same applies to the progress made in the supervision of financial markets. more generally, poland is working alongside the european institutions to advance the notion that sharing economic sovereignty between the 17, the 17 plus and poland is an asset and the way out of the crisis. as you said so well and as i said yesterday, we must prepare for january/february a way out of the crisis for our fellow citizens. the second example is the neighbourhood policy. whether on the eastern front, with the signing of the accession of croatia, with the launching of the eastern partnership last september, with the preparation of the association agreement with ukraine, or on the mediterranean front, with european support for the democratic process under way, the polish presidency has worked with great energy and i thank it for this. third and last example: in the legal field, the polish presidency has made considerable progress both in patent protection and in european contract law. i hope that we can still carry them out under your presidency. my group hopes that these efforts will be rewarded and that the final agreement will be signed in the coming days. mr president-in-office of the council, the polish presidency has supported, beyond the legislative texts, a principle which is dear to my group and to the overwhelming majority of this parliament, namely the community method. your country, like all the countries of central and eastern europe, knows better than anyone else in europe the price of freedom, the importance of solidarity. you have emphasized respect for each other's opinions and efficiency, without trying to impose your own view. this is an example for many member states to follow. we are counting on you, because if you leave the presidency, you will remain an influential member of the council, so that this community method can be brought back and applied. i would like to conclude by inviting everyone in this house to read carefully the speech in berlin by minister radek sikorski, who on 28 november last reminded us that we europeans are facing the uncomfortable situation of being on a precipice. if we act, we can get out of this, or we're going down. and the polish presidency has helped us to act collectively. we must continue to do so in a determined manner. i would like to quote a well-known polish man, john paul ii: 'let us not be afraid!' let's work in the direction you indicated this morning.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, of course i will say, as most of my colleagues have, that the polish presidency has been a success, that it has worked well in difficult times. but, contrary to what was said a few minutes ago, what is perhaps the highlight of this presidency is the speech you gave earlier, mr prime minister, to take stock of it. you have, with great lucidity, with realism, urged - let me stay in the mood of the polish christmas dinner last night - to the examination of conscience. it's an exercise that's less and less practiced. everyone is complacent, self-satisfied, self-praising, and yet you, today, asked real questions. but this examination of conscience must also be done by parliament. it is not enough to demand more power, more consultation, more presence. we too must be able to react quickly and effectively if we are to survive in our institutional environment. i think we shall have the opportunity to do so in the coming days on the growth report. i happen to have been given the own-initiative report and we are going to suggest that parliament may intervene by making proposals on the commission's proposals, either to support them or to suggest new things. today, the time has come for a renewed democracy and parliament must have its place in it.
mr president, at a time when europe is plunged into an unprecedented financial crisis, which is a sign of the interdependence of our economies, and when the countries of the southern mediterranean are now engaged in a new political dynamic which has been desired by their peoples, the consolidation of the european union's relations with its neighbours in the mediterranean and eastern europe is more essential than ever. through the european neighbourhood policy, the european union seizes opportunities to share its democratic values of the rule of law and good governance. it is accompanying the reforms undertaken by its partners, who are engaged in an unprecedented political transition. we have a role to play in this historic upheaval, but we must refrain from imposing a model that does not exactly meet the needs of the people who had the courage to rise up and reject a system that no longer suited them. the arab revolutions have redefined the contours of the european neighbourhood policy. we should be glad of that.
in writing. the countries applying for eu membership (western balkans, turkey and iceland) receive financial assistance through the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). before being accepted as full member states, the union prepares them to integrate the community acquis into their national policies. conditional on results, the ipa covers institutional capacity building, cross-border cooperation, economic and social development and rural development. i voted in favour of the albertini report, which makes it possible to use this instrument for montenegro and iceland.
in writing. this report proposes to grant iceland and montenegro the financial assistance proposed for the countries applying for membership of the european union. the aim of this aid is to support the implementation of the eu accession criteria. the payment of the contribution is subject to a performance obligation concerning the application of these criteria, including the establishment of a market economy adapted to free and undistorted competition, enshrined by the union, and the implementation of european directives and regulations. the social consequences of applying such conditionality are unacceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new european rules on the composition and labelling of fruit juices set out in the perello rodriguez report. these rules will improve consumer information on the contents of juices. the label without added sugars will no longer be misused. the new rules will also help to protect the consumer, particularly those with diabetes, by clearly distinguishing between fruit juices and nectars with different sugar content.
in writing. new labelling rules for fruit juices and nectars have been approved by the european parliament, providing greater transparency for consumers. the aim is to inform consumers so that they have clear indications as to what is a genuine juice and what is not. these rules are intended to prevent potentially misleading names being given to fruit juice mixtures and to specify the claim 'without added sugars' in order to ensure that the presence of sugars or sweeteners is quickly and clearly known. from now on, a mixture of two juices will also have to be given a name which fully reflects its content. consumers must be informed as much as possible so that they can make informed purchases of food products such as fruit juices.
in writing. the vote to improve the labelling of fruit juices and nectars will prevent europeans from being misled about the composition of these products, especially when they are mixtures of several juices. this will enable consumers to know, in the case of a juice mixture, the exact proportion of each fruit used in the mixture. the name of the juice mixture should also better reflect the actual composition of the beverage, indicating the different fruits used. moreover, clearer information on the sugar and sweetener content of these products will also be added to the labels. in concrete terms, fruit juices will by definition not contain any added sugar or sweetener, unlike nectars, for which europeans with diabetes or following a particular diet will now be able to choose better products that suit them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report specifying the contents of fruit juice drinks in order to give our citizens guarantees about the contents of the products they buy and thus enable them to make better informed consumer choices. it is essential to have a transparent exchange within the single market.
in writing. it was essential to provide consumers with the best possible information on the different types of fruit juices on the market (fruit juice, fruit juice based on concentrate or nectar) and on their composition. i am particularly pleased that the possibility of adding mandarin/clementine juice to orange juices without mentioning it in the sales description has not been adopted. to put tangerine juice in orange juice without declaring it was a fraudulent practice and a real deception! this would also have the effect of exposing the orange juice market to distortions of competition. the addition of sugar is now prohibited for all fruit juices and the directive provides for a special mention on the labelling to inform the consumer of this change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is a compromise with the council to clarify the labelling of fruit nectars containing sweeteners, the labelling of fruit juices containing several fruits, and the use of water in fruit juices.
in writing. the european union must ensure that its citizens have access to products that meet high standards of quality, sustainability and fairness. this is particularly true in the food sector, where consumers are usually very careful about their nutrition and health. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr perello rodriguez on the directive on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. new rules are needed. i particularly welcome the measures to clarify the different types of juice, to remove sugar from the list of authorized ingredients, to clearly and transparently label the proportions of fruit contained in the juice and to control the flavourings used. moreover, the application of such rules to products manufactured in europe as well as to those to be imported is fundamental. this report is aimed at improving consumer information and protection, and at finding the best possible quality for the products we consume every day, and i welcome this.
in writing. since the use of phosphates is bad for the environment, we must gradually learn to do without them. this has already been the case in france since 2007. i voted in favour of this report because it allows the ban on phosphates to be extended to the whole of the european union to products for washing laundry and dishes. thanks to the european union, our environment and our health are better protected.
in writing. detergents are the third largest source of phosphate discharges to surface water, after agriculture and waste water. phosphates are used in detergents to reduce water hardness and improve washing. they are extremely harmful to the ecological balance of the waters of lakes and rivers, and especially to aquatic life. indeed, it is these phosphates that promote the growth of algae that kill other aquatic species by depriving them of oxygen. the adoption of a directive aimed at limiting the use of phosphates is therefore a step forward in our fight to improve water quality and sustainable development. this is only a step forward, because the text deals for the moment only with the quantity of phosphates per wash and will not apply to dishwashers until 2015.
in writing. the european marine environment and inland waterways are heavily polluted by phosphates contained in laundry and dishwashing products. when phosphates are released into streams or the sea, they promote the growth of algae that are harmful to aquatic life. the proportion of phosphorus allowed in washing powders must therefore be reduced as much as possible, and thus european aquatic environments must be preserved. european consumers will benefit from more environmentally friendly cleaning products from 2017.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will significantly reduce the use of phosphates in detergents. this measure is in line with the french environmental charter and the european policy of preserving fauna and flora, by encouraging the use of products that are more respectful of our environment.
in writing. phosphates are mainly used to increase the efficiency of washing and are largely responsible, together with nitrates, for the development of algae and green or red tides. i am pleased that the revision of the regulation significantly limiting the use of phosphates and phosphorus compounds in detergents was adopted by a large majority. although this has already been the case in france since 2007, i am very pleased that the ban on phosphates in eu household laundry will be extended to all member states from january 2013. this is a double victory, since, under pressure from the european parliament, the member states have extended the ban on the use of these phosphates also to dishwasher detergents. i would remind you that in france 20 million washing machines are made every day and that 88 kg of household products are used by french households every year.
in writing. the environment is a precious commodity and we must do everything in our power to preserve it. france has already banned phosphates in laundry detergents since 2007, but this measure was not applied in all of europe. phosphates in wastewater contribute to the growth of algae, which cause green and red tides and damage aquatic fauna and flora. this measure, which will be extended to dishwashing products, will be applicable from january 2013, and i am glad of it, because if we take the case of france alone, twenty million washing machines are made daily and 88 kg of household products are used per household each year.
in writing. i have supported this report which makes it possible to strengthen consumer protection and environmental protection by reducing to minimum levels the presence of phosphates in detergents in the european union. the reduction of the presence of phosphorus compounds in waste water will help to combat the eutrophication process in lakes and rivers (algae growth).
in writing. i voted today in favour of the newton dunn report on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household textile detergents. in future, washing machine powders and dishwashing detergents will have to be almost free of phosphorus. parliament and the council also wanted to include dishwasher detergents in this legislation, while giving enough time - until 2017 - for manufacturers to adapt their products. the deadline is 2013 for washing machine powders. although such provisions have already been in force in france since 2007, i welcome the fact that the ban on phosphates is being extended to all member states, as their release into inland waterways leads, together with nitrates, to the proliferation of green algae that suffocate fish and destroy other forms of aquatic life.
in writing. the harmfulness of phosphate discharges into our seas has been demonstrated. the latter are indeed implicated in the unfortunately well-known phenomenon of 'green tides'. they are loaded with nutrients and cause a massive growth of algae, releasing toxins that endanger marine fauna and flora but also alter the quality of the water. a considerable proportion of these phosphates come from the waste from detergents used in washing machines and dishwashers. the fact that alternatives to the use of phosphates in cleaning products existed made action essential. i therefore supported the report by mr bill newton dunn. i appreciate his commitment to a ceiling on the level of phosphates in products and i particularly welcome his efforts to extend the application of this regulation not only to textile detergents - as the commission had originally proposed - but also to dishwasher detergents. i also support his request for a future evaluation of the extension of application to industrial and institutional detergents. finally, the choice of a regulation was entirely appropriate in order to ensure uniform implementation within the single market.
in writing. the rejection of the extension of the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco sends a negative signal to our mediterranean neighbour. while this agreement allowed ten member states to fish in moroccan waters, it offered, in return, financial compensation to help morocco develop its fisheries policy. i agree with my colleague alain cadec, member of the commission for fisheries and rapporteur for the european people's party on this report, who fears that any new protocol will be abandoned.
in writing. i regret the final position of the european parliament on the legislative resolution of 14 december 2011 on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement. i regret the addition of those who oppose the provisional renewal of this agreement, some of them for purely political reasons that have nothing to do with fisheries. i welcome the important work of my friend alain cadec, member of the european parliament, member of the committee on fisheries.
in writing. now more than ever, morocco needed the support of the european union, not only in the current context of the arab spring, but also and above all because morocco is one of our closest partners. this agreement was necessary because it allowed 10 member states to fish in moroccan waters in exchange for financial compensation for the development of moroccan fisheries policy throughout moroccan territory. the european parliament cannot and must not abandon a historic partner of the eu. we must now do everything we can to consolidate the partnership agreements with morocco and propose new ones on new bases in order to support the democratic process under way.
in writing. because morocco is committed to sustainable fishing, and because hundreds of european fishermen and thousands of moroccan workers depend on it, i voted in favour of extending the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco. today's vote against extending the agreement is very regrettable. the risk today is that it will undermine the negotiations on the next agreement that the european union needs, not to mention the negative signal sent to one of our most reliable partners.
in writing. i supported the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. i regret that a large majority of members voted against the extension of this fisheries protocol. we are sending a very negative signal to morocco at a time when we must support this great country in the process of political and economic reform and democratization which it has initiated. the negative vote by parliament is all the more distressing as the agreement is already in force and was due to expire in february 2012. it allowed 10 member states to fish in moroccan waters in exchange for financial compensation for the development of moroccan fisheries policy throughout moroccan territory. in practical terms, this means that 120 european fishing vessels will have to stop their activities in moroccan waters immediately! in the end, it is perhaps a total abandonment of the partnership agreements with morocco that is to be feared, which would be highly detrimental to the development of morocco and the relations we have so far built with that country.
in writing. this report proposes to extend for one year the exploitation of fishery resources in moroccan waters by the european union. parliament's vote is almost over on the extension of the terms of this operation. we are therefore faced with the fact. i object to this procedure and ask that an inquiry be conducted to establish the exact state of the resources which several agencies say they are over-exploiting. i also ask that the european union should support the development of local fisheries instead of financing the exploitation of resources by european vessels, to the detriment of the interests of the local population.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a decision to re-size parliamentary committees to allow new members who have joined the european parliament to sit.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a decision which aims to scale up the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees, delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and delegations to multilateral parliamentary assemblies, in order to allow new meps to sit in the european parliament.
in writing. i have approved the european council's appointment of frenchman benoît coeuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank (ecb). he will replace lorenzo bini smaghi. before the european parliament voted on this appointment, benoît coeuré had received the support of the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary affairs, of which i am a member. the executive board is responsible for implementing the monetary policy of the euro area.
in writing. i abstained on the council's recommendation concerning the appointment of mr cœuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. in fact, of the six members of the board, none are women.
in writing. the text of this resolution reached me just one hour before the opening of the voting session. i object to that. the commission is proposing to extend for one year the exploitation of fishery resources in moroccan waters by the european union. parliament's vote is almost over on the extension of the terms of this operation. we are therefore faced with the fact. i object to this procedure and ask that an inquiry be conducted to establish the exact state of the resources which several agencies say they are over-exploiting. i also ask that the european union should support the development of local fisheries instead of financing the exploitation of resources by european vessels, to the detriment of the interests of the local population.
in writing. i voted against the extension of the eu-morocco agreement, which was ultimately rejected by the european parliament. a democracy and human rights clause is included in the eu-morocco agreement, as in all agreements concluded by the eu, but as always, it was not taken into account when negotiating the extension of the agreement. in this logic dominated by commercial interests, the question of western sahara is not even mentioned. moreover, while one of the few advances of the lisbon treaty is that the european parliament must give its consent for the conclusion of international agreements, parliament has been very little involved in this negotiation procedure. the european parliament, the only democratically elected european institution, must defend this right.
in writing. in a context of financial crisis, the defence sector is not exempt from national fiscal austerity measures. if budgetary restrictions in the field of defence are necessary, they must not call into question the union's strategic autonomy. that is why i voted in favour of the lisek report, which calls for closer cooperation in several areas. this cooperation will make it possible to spend more intelligently and give greater visibility to the common security and defence policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 14 december 2011 on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector in the member states of the european union, seeking to defend the idea that a common research policy can and should be an essential element in building a defence industrial base. in the absence of a common european defence industrial policy, the defence market has become considerably fragmented in terms of demand, supply, regulation and standards. i am glad that, on my proposal, the committee on industry, for its opinion on this report, considered that a european defence industrial policy seems appropriate to strengthen the role of the european union on the world stage and to preserve europe's technological potential while taking into account the specificities of each member state. cross-border and transatlantic industrial cooperation can facilitate access to new technologies, encourage the development of advanced products and promote the adoption of effective cost-cutting measures. the financial crisis does not allow for the building of a viable european defence industry at member state level. i welcome the work carried out by mr arnaud danjean, member of the european parliament and chairman of the committee on defence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for a strengthening of the pooling and sharing of capabilities of the different european armies. in a context of budgetary constraints also affecting the defence sector, it is essential to encourage a better sharing of our resources and to revitalise the european defence sector. the aim is to strengthen our military power, which is essential to ensure the security of our people and to give the union a global dimension, while at the same time supporting an important industrial sector for our economies.
in writing. the european parliament called on the eu member states to increase cooperation in the defence sector. the crisis has revealed the weaknesses of the european defence and security policy, which requires a thorough reform. each year, member states spend a total of €200 billion on defence, which is only one third of the us budget. states are undergoing a cure of austerity and defence budgets are being affected. the budgetary constraint weighs on the defence capabilities of our states and upsets our relations with our partners, particularly the united states, which must bear the costs of this disengagement, as the libyan case shows. there are significant risk pockets in the sahel and the horn of africa that can pose threats to europe. we must therefore have an ambitious security and defence policy, both in terms of operations and capabilities, a policy of means which encourages the pooling and sharing of certain capabilities in the search for optimum use.
in writing. i supported this report which proposes measures to make more efficient use of member states' defence resources in a context of economic and financial crisis and budgetary austerity.
in writing. the report states that defence is a 'public good affecting the security of all citizens' and expresses concern at the eu's disproportionate reliance on the us in this area. however, it draws no conclusions from this, since it advocates greater liberalisation of the arms market and transatlantic industrial cooperation. worse, the report calls on states to strengthen their military capabilities for the benefit of nato, as required by the treaty of lisbon. it even recommends the establishment of a european semester for defence under the auspices of the european armaments agency. i vote against it, you hypocrite, atlanticist and warmonger.
in writing. this report is particularly timely: it comes at a time when member states, forced by radical fiscal austerity measures, are looking for ways to pool and share their initiatives in order to reduce costs. a comprehensive approach is needed to examine where enhanced cooperation could make progress towards doing more with less and to identify measures that could help achieve this. this report, which i voted in favour of, proposes a number of measures which i believe are appropriate, including pooling and sharing of capacities in areas with a limited impact on sovereignty: logistical support, maintenance, medical support, etc. european funds should be used to strengthen cooperation in education and training. the same treatment as students in civilian higher education institutions should be introduced for cadet officers participating in the 'military erasmus' programme. tools need to be developed to facilitate the emergence of a common safety culture and approach.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 14 december 2011 on the forthcoming eu-russia summit. i regret that my proposal of january 2011 to invite the president of the russian federation, mr dmitri medvedev, to speak at a solemn sitting of the european parliament, which was accepted by the epp group, was rejected by the conference of presidents of the european parliament. the russian federation is an important neighbour. five eu member states share a common border with it. the european union is a major player in the world economy. our common history is unquestionable and is the result of the evolution of our respective peoples, the rise and fall of empires, the links between royal families, culture, the arts, writers, religions, especially christianity, the military struggles against fascism, the attitude towards communism, etc. russia is now overtaken by china's success and is returning to its western roots. it is and will be the indispensable link in the dialogue between west and east which will serve as the basis for political negotiations aimed at establishing future global governance.
in writing. we call on russia to hold new free and fair elections. the osce's initial findings show that the voting in the parliamentary elections on 4 december was marred by numerous irregularities, including ballot box stuffing, blatant media bias and repeated intimidation of civil society representatives. for the first time, the russian people have decided to broadly express their discontent with the lockdown put in place by vladimir putin and his party on the country's political life for over 10 years now. the legitimate democratic aspirations of the russian people must be welcomed and supported by the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the upcoming eu-russia summit of 15 december 2011 and on the results of the russian parliamentary elections of 4 december 2011, to recall the importance that the union attaches to the respect by its strategic partners of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. russia is undeniably a key partner of the european union, with whom we must strengthen our energy cooperation in the fight against climate change, our trade, our negotiations for the resolution of global conflicts and conflicts in our neighbourhood. however, in accordance with our principles and values, and for the sake of the security and stability of our neighbourhood, the eu's position on russia's violations of the principles of the european convention on human rights, on the irregularities reported during the last elections and on the repression of the protesters that followed, must be strong, in particular in terms of a possible acceleration of the pace of negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. this aggressive text highlights real problems and serious questions about the situation in russia. but it uses it as a pretext for aggressive propaganda against the backdrop of inter-imperialist competition for control of energy raw materials. this resolution should be better called the anti-gazprom resolution. at least it would be clear.
in writing. the osce reports and conclusions highlight the existence of fraud in the russian parliamentary elections of 4 december 2011, as well as procedural violations, a lack of media impartiality, harassment of independent observers and the lack of separation between the united russia party and the state. i voted in favour of this resolution calling for new elections to be held in areas where fraud has been committed. the demonstrations in russia in recent days demonstrate the will of the people to strengthen democracy. we must support these aspirations. the police repression of peaceful protests is unacceptable. i am concerned, as are the non-governmental organisations, about the human rights situation, the absence of the rule of law and an independent judiciary. all these issues should be raised at the eu-russia summit this weekend.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues siwiec and david because it provides the european union with ambitious means to pursue a neighbourhood policy that is consistent with its commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the neighbourhood policy gives priority to the human dimension, respect for common values over stability and economic interests by introducing stricter conditionality with regard to all partners, both eastern and southern, by creating a mechanism allowing the suspension of agreements in the event of violations of the 'human rights' clause and by providing stronger support for civil society. i also welcome this report because it calls for more mobility and flexibility with partners, by calling for simplification of visa procedures and a greater framework for readmission agreements.
in writing. the report, which is purely declarative, has the merit of criticizing the eu's past complacency towards dictatorships, calling on states to respect the principle of non-refoulement and calling for poverty eradication to guide eu external action. that's a load of crap. the text endorses the establishment of full and deepened free trade areas and the gradual alignment with the eu's free and undistorted competition rules. it validates the european ambition to gradually incorporate all the states concerned into the eu's internal market. worse, it is segregating by considering the prospect of eu membership only for the eastern countries and excluding the mediterranean countries. it is a form of arbitrary imperialism. i vote against it.
in writing. this report calls for a renewed approach to the european neighbourhood policy. in the current context of the arab revolutions, i would like this policy to be more ambitious than ever, based on the principles of differentiation and evaluation, political conditionality and shared values. the text voted today goes in that direction, and that is why i am voting in favour of it. it includes key elements in my view, in particular those aimed at strengthening democracy in the eu's neighbouring countries, as well as differentiation according to the political, economic and social realities of each country and its performance. apart from strengthening democracy, special attention must be paid to human rights, and in particular to freedom of religion. we therefore demand that full and effective respect for the right to freedom of religion, in particular for all religious minorities in the region, be defined as a priority of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. the revision of the european neighbourhood policy is more necessary than ever in the face of the developments that the arab spring will inevitably bring about in the south and the increase in violations of fundamental rights in some countries in the east. the solutions proposed in this report are inspired by the lessons of the past and take account of the specific features of each of the two regions in our neighbourhood. that is why i supported it in the vote in plenary. but this vote is only a step: i will remain vigilant on the distribution of the budget allocated to the neighbourhood instruments and on the implementation of the new instruments announced, such as the european fund for democracy, for which i was designated as the fictitious rapporteur by my group. and above all, we must monitor the use of these funds: the european commission must set up regular monitoring, based on a similar method and criteria for all the beneficiary countries.
in writing. in response to the events of 11 september 2001, strong counter-terrorism policies were implemented across the eu. police and judicial cooperation between member states has thus developed with the objective, among other things, of countering terrorism. while it is necessary for the european union to have a high-quality counter-terrorism system, it is equally important that its cost, effectiveness and impact on the civil liberties of european citizens be assessed. to date, there is no comprehensive study of the eu counter-terrorism policies implemented since 2001. this is why the commission must publish a full and detailed evaluation, indicating the cost, the concrete results and the control procedures of the european counter-terrorism policies currently in force. the actions taken in the fight against terrorism must be subject to democratic control, from their conception to the assessment of their real consequences for the daily lives of europeans.
in writing. ten years after the 9/11 attacks, we now need to assess the implementation of the european counter-terrorism strategy, drawing lessons for the future in terms of cost/effectiveness of the measures adopted, and ensuring that they respect democratic principles. i regret the opposition of the european right to any criticism that might be made to question the usefulness of this or that measure. in order to be in a better position to judge this, i voted in favour of the requirement for a detailed evaluation (including budgetary) of the measures in the member states, their shortcomings or the planned preventive measures. i also supported a strengthening of democratic control which should in particular include access to information for national parliaments and the european parliament, rights to amend counter-terrorism proposals, provision for an assessment of the proportionality of measures when they are reviewed and provision for an overview of classified documents, the direction of classification and access to counter-terrorism data.
in writing. the alternative report has the merit of calling for an assessment of the policy of combating terrorism in europe. the requirements are minimal where the initial report called for a detailed review of this policy since september 2001. it expresses no criticism of the pnr and swift agreements and endorses the clash of civilizations theory. worse, it establishes that the free movement of persons within the eu benefits terrorists. ridiculous and paranoid. i can't give him my vote.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the strengthening of the prerogatives of the european maritime safety agency proposed in this report, and i would like to support the great need for deeper integration of maritime safety by the example of transnational collaboration in the channel, which is in decline. after ten years of franco-british co-financing of an emergency, assistance and rescue tug, the british government, in the name of austerity, decided to stop financing it, thus undermining the security of one of the busiest sea crossings in the world, which is suffering, in this case, the consequences of the privatisation of these services and the lack of a shared vision. it is therefore essential that national enforcement authorities - and, as a priority, national coastguard services - act in synergy to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of transnational actions. i therefore believe that it is a matter of priority for the european agency to be concerned with security in the channel and to coordinate the action of the member states in this area.
mr president, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking and congratulating our rapporteur for the consensual approach he has shown in drafting this resolution. i would also like to congratulate mrs sehnalová, who has asked that the liberalisation of port services not be included in this text. commissioner, allow me to remind you in the minute i have left - i was a little bit hungry after your opening statement in our debate and i will explain it in a moment - how much has changed since the adoption of the white paper on transport in 2001. however, despite all the efforts made, it is clear that ten years later, transport is still not sustainable. i therefore think that your proposal of 28 march 2011 does not go far enough in terms of concrete proposals. i would like to see you in the debate, following our road map as we will adopt it tomorrow, go further with concrete proposals on, for example, the reduction of co2 emissions by 20% in road transport and the application of the polluter pays principle to all transport. you said recently that by 2050 the member states should be able to mobilise eur 1 500 billion. how will you propose legislation in the very short term, by 2020, to enable us to meet our road map? and how will you be able to mobilise this funding from the member states?
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday mrs ashton said that human rights were to be the guiding principle of all our external action. the european union is one of uzbekistan's main trading partners and a major importer of cotton. in view of the conditions of the cotton harvest, our parliament must assume its moral responsibility and refuse to give its consent to this agreement until uzbekistan allows the independent ilo mission to visit the field and until this mission confirms that reforms are being implemented to end forced child labour. for the first time, thanks to the lisbon treaty, this parliament can use its new power and refuse to endorse a trade agreement in the name of human rights. our action is thus consistent with the values we defend and in line with the demands of ngos, trade unions and textile retailers' associations, who demand ethical production. the ball is now in the commission's court, which must withdraw the system of generalized preferences from uzbekistan.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, in four years of implementing the central asia strategy, much has been achieved. the union has established a constant political dialogue as well as regular dialogues on human rights. major initiatives and programmes have been activated to support the seven eu priority areas. however, in the light of the arab revolutions, and in the context of the withdrawal of international forces from afghanistan already underway, and in view of the tragic events in southern kyrgyzstan in june 2010, the limits of our strategy are much more visible today, requiring a profound reassessment on our part. with the external action service's review of the strategy planned for 2012, we felt it necessary to make some key recommendations in this report based on the following finding: the eu is failing to reconcile its values and interests in effective programmes adapted to the realities and developments in the region. europe is not visible. his presence there is still in its infancy. the financial resources devoted to the strategy are limited and even appear to be threatened. we do not provide sufficient and open support to civil society, independent media and human rights defenders. sometimes pro-government foundations receive european financial aid, much to the chagrin of genuine ngos. the european parliament is convinced that a new approach to the union based on human security and regional cooperation is needed. all our actions, projects and initiatives must be guided by the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. europe and its western partners, mired in the afghan quagmire and concerned about their military bases in the region, have for too long favoured the stability of the regimes in place at the expense of human rights. however, this stability based on repression is short-lived; the arab revolutions are proof of that. we must be careful not to repeat our mistakes and be able to respond better to the political vacuum that a similar change could cause in central asia, against the background of ethnic and regional conflicts. in kazakhstan, the oil sector unions have been on strike for more than six months, despite a ruthless crackdown. early parliamentary elections will be held on 15 january, amid unprecedented social tensions and the banning of political parties. will we have the courage and honesty to tell the kazakh authorities that the european union will draw the appropriate conclusions from these events when negotiating the future partnership and cooperation agreement? the report by human rights watch published yesterday alarms us about the unspeakably cruel torture practiced in prisons in uzbekistan. in tashkent, human rights defenders have just been arrested. we are pleased to hear mrs ashton insist in this house that human rights must henceforth be the pillar of all our external action. we therefore recommend that we review our policies towards central asia. i am particularly proud that this parliament has placed conditionality and the principles of differentiation and 'more for more' at the heart of our new approach, while recommending that we strengthen our support for civil society and independent media. the european union cannot be honest in one part of the world and not react to violations of its values in another. finally, there is regional cooperation. the challenges facing these countries require a concerted approach: ethnic conflicts, water management, security problems, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, human trafficking. these threats directly affect the security and stability of central asia, but also of europe. we therefore recommend that the european union should play the role of mediator, facilitator. to encourage dialogue, we propose the creation of an ad hoc parliamentary forum which the european union, through the parliament's delegation, could propose to the parliaments of the five central asian countries. this will enable the elected european representatives to share their experience and expertise with their colleagues.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis must not be used as an excuse for neglecting health and safety at work. our ambition is quality work for all workers, despite the persistence of mass unemployment and the explosion of precarious work. according to the european agency for safety and health at work, 168 000 people die in europe each year from work-related accidents and diseases, more than half of them from cancer and a quarter from cardiovascular disease. how can we not be shocked by this growing number? as rapporteur on the evaluation of this european strategy for health and safety at work, which will end in 2012, my conclusions are clear. it would be a moral mistake to turn a blind eye to suffering at work. it would also be an economic mistake, since all the studies show that accidents and occupational diseases are costly, both to our health and social security systems and to our companies. this strategy must be more ambitious, more coherent and above all much more courageous from 2013 onwards. the legislative framework must be strengthened and the legislation adapted to new risks, such as psychosocial risks, musculoskeletal disorders and nanomaterials. stress at work should not be treated by mere training, which is completely inadequate when one in two european workers is exposed to risks affecting his mental health. the truth must be said loud and clear: workers suffer most from the sudden reorganisation of work, its intensification and the failure of management methods. in addition, many employees warn of risks to people and the environment. these people need to be protected. i am proud that we are here in parliament asking the european commission for a directive to protect these famous whistleblowers. the european commission must not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings against member states which do not comply with their obligations. european harmonization in the field of health is a major step forward. it is also crucial to develop a culture of prevention in europe. thus, states must increase the number of labour inspectorates to meet the target of one inspector for every 10 000 workers, as recommended by the international labour organisation. it is absolutely unjustifiable to weaken the rules of prevention in small and mediumsized enterprises or for the selfemployed, who enjoy the same fundamental right to the protection of their health. in addition, we are seeing an increase in the outsourcing of jobs and the emergence of cascading subcontracting. new workers are emerging from the prevention sphere: precarious workers, fake selfemployed, subcontracted workers, particularly in the nuclear sector. given the exposure to high levels of radiation and the danger associated with the handling of radioactive materials, it is essential that there are strict standards of occupational safety training and inspection by independent entities. finally, there is a need to measure emerging risks and new risks, such as chemical and biological risks, which are complex but for which data are still insufficient. there is a need for rapid action in the field of asbestos, silica and other well-known carcinogens. the reach regulation has a very important role to play in the prevention of cancer and other work-related diseases. it must be updated and fully implemented. finally, we must recognize, or better recognize, occupational diseases, starting with cancers, in order to identify all the problems quickly. i therefore ask you all, commissioner, to support my report, because i know that it will help to meet all these challenges and that europe has a role to play: europe must protect all workers who must not lose their lives because of their work. commissioner, i hope that by 2013 there will be a european strategy on health and safety at work and i really hope that we will be moving forward quite quickly.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, i would first like to say that we fully support the argument put forward by mrs matera on the merits or otherwise of a decision to suspend derogations and in this connection i would like to thank mrs matera for all the work she has done in this area. i also share your analysis, commissioner, of the disastrous effects on europe's image of stopping a measure that has been shown to be effective. i would like to return to the renault case for a moment. i would also like to speak on behalf of my colleague dominique riquet, who for personal reasons was unable to be present this morning, to say that i too share your analysis of the case. this dossier has been a mixed bag, probably due to the combination of two aspects: one on measures eligible under the globalisation adjustment fund and a purely french aspect on voluntary retirement. as you said, there has been a kind of telescoping between the initial agreement and the pension reform in france, which has extended the period of contribution, so that a number of employees - this number varies, as do the periods - are worried about their lot. we share this concern and it so happens that i am, together with my colleague mr riquet, a member of parliament for the constituency in which the renault factories which have been affected are located. i can tell you that we have done everything we can to bring renault to his senses. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal to make a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i believe that these commitments are serious, but i can assure you that locally we will be fully committed to ensuring that the employees who are affected by this pension problem - which you said is not directly on the record - can have a completely calmed down situation. it is on the basis of these observations that i would ask all my colleagues to grant this compensation to renault. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". i did not understand that the commission's proposal was this. i understood the commissioner to say, on the contrary, that he regretted this decision and that he would ensure that the cases which would be limiting could be examined with the criteria in force, but taking into account this crisis situation which he said - it seems to me - would continue and would continue to affect unemployment unfortunately. that is why i said earlier that i fully agree with the analysis of the commissioner and the rapporteur on these matters and that this council decision sends a very bad signal about the image of europe in a difficult period for workers. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question for the council could mr gauzès tell us what commitments renault has made to mr bertrand, the minister in charge, and which he considers to be serious?
the answer is "blue cardboard". i was given explanations yesterday afternoon by the french ministry of labour, whose minister has been pushing this matter forward, under conditions which i do not find pleasant. the problem of pensions has arisen in other french companies and has been solved, particularly in michelin, for example, which does not appear to be a well-known left-wing company. what is shocking - and i make this clear - is that renault, whose capital is 17% owned by the state, is expressing reluctance. but i wanted to make sure of those commitments yesterday. these commitments - which were read to me on the telephone, but i did not have the paper - consist in ensuring that people who would be in a break in income, because of the lengthening of the contributions periods required with the pension reform in france, could see their lack of contributions compensated. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is why i said that at the local level - since i have contacts with the regional prefect, and i am quite ready to work with mrs grelier to resolve this issue - i believe that we both, despite our political differences, share the concern that workers who lose their jobs, who are faced with a contractually agreed agreement at a time when the situation was different, do not see their rights altered by subsequent developments in the legislation. i would say that i am in full agreement with mrs grelier's attempt to fight this fight, but i hope that it will not be necessary.
question for the council madam president, i would like to ask mr fernandes if he considers it political clearly, in his own words, it sounds like a bad thing to worry about the consequences of a pension reform that leaves employees outside the whole system of compensation and income. mr gauzès, who, to my knowledge, belongs to the same group, considered that this should be taken into account and that the shareholder state should perhaps take care of this situation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation adjustment fund needs this debate. this tool has a positive role, but first of all i would say that the procedures are too long to protect effectively the employees who need quick support so that they are not left to themselves. secondly, the short history of the globalisation adjustment fund has already been marked by highly controversial cases of government payments that have only served to repair the damage caused by companies that relocate wildly. perhaps the european union has better things to do than put plaster on wooden legs. first of all, we must consider how it allows free trade without faith or law. when will we incorporate social and environmental criteria into our trade agreements to combat dumping? the famous gef must be a tool which is absolutely necessary today to promote the transition to quality 'green' jobs, i.e. local jobs which cannot be relocated. in the specific case of renault, the globalisation adjustment fund does not allow the co-financing of passive measures. what is the situation today in the renault case? neither the renault group, the french state nor the european commission were able to convince us that the training measures offered to employees at the time were active measures. what does that mean? this means real training with the aim of vocational integration. that's the first thing. secondly, i think that the case of all employees who are threatened with precariousness because they fall into the early retirement scheme is not a french-french question - as has been said - but a question of european solidarity. all employees must be treated equally: some do not have to benefit from measures, while others do. i am glad to hear my colleague, mr gauzès - whom i also appreciate - tell us today in this house that renault is committed to taking concrete action. i'm a little sad to hear that today. i think he should have woken up a long time ago.
madam president, i thank you for agreeing to postpone my speaking time. renault is indeed a case study, an example of what not to do. we are quite divided in my group, and i shall therefore speak on behalf of the french delegation. renault is a sound company economically. it generates several billion dollars in profits every year, three billion dollars in 2009 alone. renault is doing what we call stock-based layoffs here. every year, for several years now, thousands of employees have been laid off for the sole benefit of the shareholders, including the french state. this is not about an election calendar. this has been repeated for several years at renault. and as far as i'm concerned, my votes are consistent on the matter. i don't see what the employee interest is in this case. i very much hope that the current discussions on the fund will make it possible to make a thorough review of its operation in order to avoid accompanying the worst practices of large companies towards their workers, treated in this case as simple adjustment variables. we know that in france the social support plans leave much to be desired and that the objective of social integration is not being achieved, particularly in the case of renault.
madam president, there are actually two debates today. one debate concerns the question of extending the derogation from the globalisation adjustment fund for companies affected by the crisis. of course, i too regret that a blocking minority in the council - as we had on the european programme of aid to the most deprived - can oppose the continuation of this fund. at the same time, there's this debate about renault these two debates are linked. we cannot, on the one hand, want to extend the fund and, on the other, call into question the 24.5 million euros which would be allocated to the renault company. i understand that there are difficulties, that 180 employees are affected, in particular, by problems of implementation linked to the pension reform, but we must not mix everything. above all, the european parliament must not be held hostage to national issues. nor should the european parliament be held hostage for electoral purposes. we are in a parliament where the political divide - thank god - has the possibility, very often, of being overcome. we need to vote together today in favour of this mobilization so that the company, but also the employees, can find the conditions for their redeployment. in the face of this crisis, which is serious, in europe we must be responsible, we must be courageous and we must defend the general interest, and only the general interest.
madam president, this european parliament has voted by a very large majority in favour of renewing the crisis facility under the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is quite paradoxical that member states - whose representative and member of the council is not here to hear this debate and our arguments - should refuse to extend the derogation under the crisis mechanism at a time when the oecd is finding that the european union and, in particular, the euro zone has entered a recession and has adjusted the growth prospects for next year to 0.2%. where's the end of the crisis? i put the question to the council. the reality is that there is a blocking minority in the council who think that, since we are in a crisis, the founding principle of the european union, which is solidarity, should no longer be applied. i ask the council to listen to parliament's message. we call for solidarity to be maintained within the european union. a second, madam president, about renault. i hear some people in this house saying that this is an electoral ploy. i ask the commission to take its responsibilities and to make sure that its right hand does not ignore what its left hand is doing. i ask that tomorrow, when it looks at the way in which the pension reform has been implemented in france, it takes account of the damage caused by mr xavier bertrand and his pension reform, and that it tells france that the disastrous effects of this pension reform must be corrected.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in good conscience and out of responsibility i shall vote against the request for aid put forward by the french government on behalf of renault, and i shall do so in my own personal capacity. because the latter, unlike other groups, refused to take into account the situation of former employees, so-called seniors, who were dismissed in 2009 and soon deprived of resources following the entry into force of the pension reform. because, with more than three billion euros in profits in 2010, the renault group is taking full advantage of the potential of globalisation. because it seems to me indecent, at a time when everyone is being asked to tighten their belts, to sign a blank cheque for 24.5 million euros without any consideration. because, finally, mr commissioner, the training and support measures presented by the applicants as active measures for returning to work, the only ones eligible for the egf, are in reality disconnected from any logic of resuming activity. it is not a question of giving ourselves a good conscience by giving ourselves the illusion of supporting european industry. what matters in the end is to support the interests of the employees of the industry and the jobs associated with it. we are dealing with a case of the unwinding of the egf and we must draw the consequences to adapt it.
we would like to propose an oral amendment. after numerous contacts, renault's management and the french state have so far refused to take into account the situation of employees of the company who, in 2009, agreed to leave the company and are affected by the application for the gef, and who have since seen their rights and incomes reduced by the application of the pension reform in france. the amendment proposal is as follows: paragraph 2a: 'requests renault and the french state to formally commit themselves to take the necessary legal and financial measures to restore all pension rights and benefits, while granting them an exemption from work under equivalent conditions, to workers whose pension benefits have been affected by the reforms which have come into force since their dismissal.'
the rapporteur. the commission has also proposed to add:ad hoc parliamentary forum in the framework of the existing parliamentary cooperation committees and interparliamentary meetings with central asian countries and alsoand multilateral parliamentary cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan, as it underlines the importance of budgetary support for capacity building in the country. it also highlights the weaknesses identified in the audit reports of the court of auditors and us audit firms and calls on the european commission to remedy them. it also called for the establishment of common audit standards.
in writing. i supported the postponement of the vote on mr schwab's report on eu competition policy because one of the paragraphs in the report refers to mr schwab's opinion on econ on collective redress by including it in the annex. however, the report of mr lehne of the juri committee on collective redress (juri being the committee on the substance of the case) is due to be adopted by the juri committee in december 2011 and then by the plenary in february 2012. the postponement of the vote on mr schwab's report on competition policy therefore appears justified, so that the econ committee's opinion on collective redress will not be voted on before the report on the substance. this does not change my position in favour of the establishment of a european system of collective redress with clear and effective safeguards, a position which i defended as the epp's fictitious rapporteur on the opinion of mrs rapti on this issue in the imco committee.
in writing. this report is an ode to free and undistorted competition. it does not spare any sector: transport, energy, telecommunications, "services of general economic interest", banking. it's all there. not once is the general interest mentioned, and for good reason. only the commercial appetites count here. it's all about liberal dogmatism. a methodical preparation for disaster. it's a shame, you know. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the decision taken by the european parliament to mobilise eur 24.5 million to finance the conversion of 3582 people made redundant by renault. the automotive sector is not immune to the crisis, and it is important that the european union intervenes to limit its effects. while the fund is in principle only available to help workers affected by globalisation, the eu has decided to extend its scope to cover job losses linked to the crisis. however, i regret that this decision was not renewed for 2012. moreover, i regretted the negative vote of the french socialists, who too often prefer ideology to real help for the european workers.
in writing. the french-french debate on the mobilisation of the gef for renault has been the subject of much controversy, but we must not forget the essence of the matter: today's vote was, beyond the controversy, a vote for or against the gef. as we are working on extending this fund beyond 2013 - which is one of the only concrete actions of the eu to deal with the social consequences of the crisis, it should be remembered - it seemed important to me to express my support for the egf. it is true that it seems that in the renault case not all the rules were fully respected (financing of so-called passive training instead of active training) and that the french company showed some resistance to providing the information requested. finding a solution for today's struggling employees is therefore a necessity. in the long term, the french case shows us the need to improve the management of the egf in the next budget period.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for 3 582 french employees made redundant by the car manufacturer renault. this fund enables our citizens who are most severely affected by the crisis to obtain additional support from the european union, without the state having to put its hand in their pocket.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund was set up to help employees and businesses affected by globalisation and to enable employees to become employable again. but in reality, too often it is the organisers of the savage competition between peoples to increase the dividends who are the demanders. in this case, renault and a number of its subcontractors are seeking support, whereas their job cuts are aimed at increasing their profits. more seriously, renault - as we have been told by employees - has used this mechanism to organise early retirement. for example, many employees who are close to retirement have been busy learning how to glue wallpaper, how to garden, how to drive a motorcycle or a boat. the french government has decided to raise the retirement age, and a number of them are now facing an inadmissible situation. they have given their health to their business and may be left without resources for several months before they can claim their pension rights. we are in favour of public aid being used to support industrial development and research in order to boost employment, but we cannot support the misuse of public funds.
in writing. the european parliament has finally approved the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of renault and its 3582 employees who have opted for voluntary redundancy. this measure will concern the factories in ile-de-france, haute-normandie and nord-pas-de-calais. the european union will thus provide assistance of €24.5 million, the highest amount ever paid so far. this is excellent news for french industry and its employees who are awaiting the decision to release the funds which had been delayed by the french socialists. i consider that the political exploitation of a matter which had nothing to do with purely national issues is an unacceptable manoeuvre which has no place in the european parliament. i am therefore glad that the french socialists, who once again tried to get an amendment passed in the house to put pressure on the government, have been foiled.
in writing. i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for renault employees to finance the conversion of 3582 workers who have opted for voluntary departure. the workers concerned came from factories mainly based in ile-de-france, haute-normandie and nord-pas de calais. the egf is an indispensable instrument, a concrete expression of solidarity within the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for renault and its employees. the aid received - €24.5 million, the highest amount ever granted by the egf - will be used to finance the conversion of 3582 workers who have opted for voluntary redundancy in the group's plants in ile-de-france, haute-normandie and nord-pas-de-calais. i welcome this positive vote, which sends a message of solidarity and very concrete help to a french automobile industry and workers who are struggling in a context of very tough global competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european socialists have succeeded in bringing their french members to their senses, avoiding that electoral considerations should prevail over the interests of the employees.
in writing. this report validates the payment of a refund that renault does not deserve. the company, which posted a profit of 1.2 billion euros in the first half of this year, is planning more layoffs. it replaces its employees with precarious temporary workers. today, it is cynical to the point of leaving hundreds of former employees on the street, to whom it had given, in 2009, the assurance of payment of assedic until the planned date of retirement. the pension reform has been through this. renault, whose main shareholder is still the french state, had not seen it! renault offers these former employees temporary assignments as the only solution! it's indecent to reward such a social monstrosity.
in writing. today, beyond the difficult economic and monetary context in europe, we are facing a profound crisis of european democracy. the eu still suffers from a lack of understanding of its decisions in the eyes of citizens who still feel so far removed from them. the challenge of bringing europe closer to its citizens is more relevant than ever: ensuring the transparency of eu decisions and free access to documents from the three institutions is essential if we are to meet this challenge. the european parliament is already an open and transparent institution, with its meetings and reports widely publicised. it is thanks to greater transparency that citizens can participate fully in the democratic process. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen public access to documents and democracy in the european union. this openness of access to documents offers the possibility, in particular, for national political actors to verify the acts of the european institutions, and it incorporates any content whatever the medium concerning a matter falling within the competence of an institution of the union. we can thus make progress on the road to transparency with the aim of clarifying the opacity of 'brussels' decisions for all european citizens.
in writing. eight years after the entry into force of the european regulation on the right of access to documents of the european institutions, the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) and the inquiries of the ombudsman of the european union regularly point to certain limitations and resistance in the application of this regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this new regulation which provides for 'access to all documents (i.e. any content whatever its medium concerning a matter falling within the competence of the european union) held by all institutions, bodies, agencies of the european union for all citizens', restrictions being reduced to the maximum; the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. our european institutions are constantly accused of being opaque and incomprehensible, and i hope that this regulation will allow for more open, more direct access to the documents of our institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michael cashman on public access to documents of the european institutions, because it enshrines a fundamental right under the charter of fundamental rights. the report also sends a message of transparency, accountability and democracy to citizens by giving them wider and easier access to eu documents, whatever their content, with few exceptions. this access is a crucial issue at a time when the economic governance of the european union is to be strengthened. that is why i voted against the european people's party's measures to weaken the transparency requirement, because it is important that citizens are able to read the decisions and exercise their right of democratic control.
in writing. i voted against mr cashman's report on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents because it goes far beyond the simple objective of improving the transparency of the work of the european institutions. the report ignores existing legislation and does not take into account the protection of personal and sensitive data. the report does not appear to be an improvement for the benefit of european citizens. it confuses documents with information and leads to the over-publication of unnecessary documents which do not allow citizens to be better informed.
in writing. the communication to the public of council, commission and parliament documents is a vast undertaking. even we members of parliament have difficulty in obtaining them and it often takes weeks to translate them into the languages of the union. only one amendment deals more specifically with the crucial question of languages. i therefore vote against, to oppose the constant anti-french disregard for the european institutions, for which france pays a very large sum.
in writing. created in 1999 following the oil spill caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the european maritime safety agency promotes cooperation between member states in maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships. it also offers assistance in the event of serious pollution. the deepwater horizon disaster following the explosion of an oil platform in the gulf of mexico showed the need to strengthen the agency's capacity. that is why i voted in favour of the fleckenstein report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which represents a new step towards an ambitious european maritime policy adapted to the maritime traffic on our coasts. it is essential to have the tools to react quickly to contain the damage caused by accidents which can have disastrous environmental and economic consequences for our territories.
in writing. in 1999, the erika sank off the coast of brittany, causing a terrible environmental disaster. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was subsequently set up to combat marine pollution. more than 10 years later, and with the recent grounding of the tk bremen on the breton coast a stark reminder that environmental disaster is still possible, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the role of the agency by extending its scope of activity. in addition to the technical and scientific assistance already provided, the agency will be able to intervene in particular on pollution caused by offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities. we saw it last year in the gulf of mexico, the damage caused by this kind of accident is considerable. by strengthening the powers of the emea, the european union is giving itself the means to guard against such a catastrophe.
in writing. i supported this report on the revision of the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency, which aims to strengthen the mandate of the agency by refocusing it on its two main missions (maritime safety and security), while taking into account the means at its disposal to exercise its powers.
in writing. i abstained on the amendment of this regulation. the regulation established the european maritime safety agency in 2006, whose primary objective was to combat maritime disasters. i have supported those amendments which reaffirm this objective, citing historical examples such as the erika. it is more necessary than ever for member states to work together to combat those who pollute our seas and to coordinate to minimise the consequences of disasters that occur. but this objective could be undermined by the extension of the agency's powers, thus diluting its fight for the preservation of the seas and coastlines within a number of other objectives.
in writing. i supported this text, which is a satisfactory basis for a second reading. i regret that some of my colleagues have distorted the fundamental tasks of the european maritime safety agency by extending them to non-relevant areas. we must be realistic and ask the agency only what it can do, especially in a context of budgetary constraints. it must remain the legitimate body to guarantee the safety and security of the community's maritime areas. i believe that the agency should have the competence and the means to prevent all causes of pollution and to combat its disastrous effects on the environment and human health, at sea and on our coasts. originally set up to prevent disasters like the erika sinking from happening again, the agency is a pillar of the protection of our seas. i shall be vigilant to ensure that its action is both useful and effective, and that it can intervene in coordination with the states. the seas are fragile ecosystems, overexploited spaces, where dangerous or illegal activities take place. it is up to us to protect them by giving ourselves the means to preserve them. that is the scope of this regulation, and that is my ambition.
in writing. i strongly support the european parliament resolution on the situation in syria, as it is essential that the international community and the european union continue to exert strong and sustained pressure on the syrian regime to end the violent and brutal repression of the population. the regime has already caused the unsustainable deaths of 5,000 men, women and children, including 15 people killed on monday 12 december, in total impunity. it is therefore urgent that we strengthen our joint efforts to demand the departure of bashar al-assad and the establishment of investigations into possible crimes against humanity.
in writing. the resolution condemns the repression by the syrian regime. it advocates a peaceful transition and calls on the opposition forces to avoid the militarization of the conflict. it denounces the active collaboration of european companies with the syrian regime. for these reasons, i support it. but the text calls for the establishment of humanitarian corridors within the framework of the security council. this necessarily implies a military deployment to syria. the text also proposes that the european union, the arab league, turkey and the opposition negotiate the terms of the agreement. such negotiations should take place within the framework of the un. the presence of the arab league, which has approved the repression in bahrain, is not appropriate. binding clauses preventing the risk of military escalation should be guaranteed. the use of the resolution on libya to get nato to intervene should serve as a lesson. the text makes no such provision. i vote against it out of distrust.
in writing. the situation in syria is of deep concern. despite almost unanimous international condemnation, the syrian authorities continue to exercise violent repression against their own people and continue to commit serious human rights violations against non-violent civilians. the toll of this repression is dramatic: according to un estimates, since march 2011, more than 5,000 people - including more than 300 children! - have been killed, an even greater number injured, more than 14,000 people are believed to be detained and tens of thousands more have fled to neighbouring countries or have been displaced within syria. by voting for this resolution, i wished to condemn once again, in the strongest possible terms, the brutal repression by the syrian regime against its people and to reaffirm my solidarity with the syrian people in their non-violent struggle for freedom, dignity and democracy. we call once again on president bashar al-assad and his regime to relinquish power immediately so that a political transition can take place in syria.
in writing. once again a resolution on syria! the brutal repression currently being carried out by the syrian regime against its own people is outrageous and must stop. bashar al-assad has no legitimacy left, he must relinquish power immediately and end the repression against syrians who simply want more freedom. every day that passes brings us closer to a major humanitarian crisis. already today, nearly 7% of the population is affected, particularly women, children and the elderly. the european union has recently adopted a tenth set of sanctions, but we must continue to exert pressure on the syrian regime. sanctions must be targeted, minimising any adverse impact on the population. i call for the immediate release of all protestors, political prisoners, human rights defenders and journalists currently detained.
in writing. i abstained on the european parliament resolution on syria. the resolution affirms its support for the syrian people and strongly condemns the regime of bashar al-assad, but remains relatively vague on potential eu or international action. the resolution calls for "the deployment of international observers to prevent attacks on civilians" and "to find new ways to increase their non-military assistance to the forces". the most vague paragraph concerns the un security council, which is said to have been unable to respond to the events in syria (that's quite true, but whose fault?) and that it must now assume its responsibility (let's admit it), but without specifying how. i therefore preferred to abstain on this resolution. i welcome, however, the awarding of the sakharov prize this week to razan zaitouneh (syrian human rights lawyer) and ali farzat (syrian cartoonist), which is a strong symbol of the european parliament's support for the syrian people's struggle.
in writing. this report endorses the establishment of instruments for the commission to monitor the budgetary policies of the member states. the dashboards discussed allow the commission to allocate good and bad points, and to trigger the almost automatic sanctions provided for by the six-pack. the few proposed improvements in the indicators do not change the logic of limited sovereignty in economic governance. what is worse, the text calls for its implementation. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against the report on the scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic balances. this text is a result of the 'governance' package which aims to place the budget of the states under the authoritarian control of the european union, by applying a doctrinal treatment outside any economic reality. it's just another text among others. this dispersion dilutes the real face of european neoliberal policy and of our heads of government and thus imposes on us a seemingly natural austerity. the tool required by this text remains unclear, and a battle has yet to be fought over its construction. we already know that the variables in the analysis of economies will not be neutral, and that the social variable is always the adjustment variable. the scoreboard is a statistical instrument which will have an impact on member states' policies and the social sector without being controlled by the citizens.
in writing. transport, which is essential for mobility, is a key factor in the completion of the internal market. the free movement of goods, persons and workers depends on it. transport, a key element of the union's territorial cohesion and competitiveness, requires special attention. i therefore voted in favour of the grosch report, which calls for the creation of a single european transport area. to achieve this, objectives to be achieved by 2020 must be set. similarly, european standards in safety, energy and the environment must be promoted. finally, the particular attention to research and innovation highlighted in the europe 2020 strategy also applies to the transport sector.
in writing. the idea of a single, interconnected european area in which the different modes of transport are complementary is the right one. this is the path we must take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, one key point determined my final vote. in a vote on the revision of the railway directives at the last plenary session, i opposed the idea of asking the european commission to make proposals in 2012 for the separation of infrastructure management and transport operations and for the opening up of the internal market for rail passenger transport. this idea was reiterated in the grosch report. i think that, despite the fact that it was voted in november in the previous report, it is still a bad idea. i therefore voted against this own-initiative report which also contained provisions to promote the circulation of the so-called 'mega trucks', the ecological benefits of which are questionable, to say the least!
in writing. it is essential that the european union has an ambitious transport plan to reduce road fatalities and carbon emissions. by 2020, the number of people killed on european roads should have halved compared to 2010. parliament also called for an overall reduction of co2 emissions from road, sea and air transport by 20% compared with 1990 levels. finally, european cities are invited to develop safe infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists. the quality of european transport structures must be a priority for the european union, as the number of transport users is expected to grow by 34% by 2030.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mathieu grosch, which gives a better idea of the future of european transport. the objectives set out in this white paper set new milestones towards a european network that facilitates the movement of our citizens while reducing the environmental footprint.
in writing. despite some reservations, i voted in favour of this report, which sets ambitious and positive targets, including reducing co2 emissions in the transport sector by 2020. however, i regret that mega trucks (these giant trucks up to 60 tonnes and 25 metres long) are mentioned in this report. these road monsters are a real danger to road safety, because they are not suited to infrastructure at all and they can seriously damage it. the report also calls for the development of a european transport policy that is more environmentally friendly and more environmentally friendly.
in writing. i supported the report on the roadmap for a single european transport area, as it includes a number of road safety and co2 reduction objectives and stresses the importance of internalising external costs (noise for example).
in writing. although this is an own-initiative report, this text reminds the commission and the member states of our concerns about the delay in implementing a genuine european transport area. we are first and foremost elected representatives of the people, and we know the realities facing our citizens, to live them on a daily basis. that is the meaning of my vote in favour of this text. a lot has been achieved in the last 20 years. but there is still a long way to go. i would like to recall one of the essential roles of transport networks: to plan our territories correctly and sustainably. europe is sometimes too absent from these issues, whereas territorial cohesion is now one of its prerogatives. i hope that this report will be seen as a new beginning for the european union's action in our territories. supporting the transeuropean transport networks is not enough. it is now necessary for europe to promote territorial projects around the establishment of these major infrastructures. i am thinking in particular of the arrival of high-speed rail lines, which are making such a good contribution to the opening up of the territories and are also an important lever for local development.
in writing. the single market cannot function without the creation of a european transport area, which is essential to ensure that trade can take place between the different member states of the union without technical barriers, without additional costs and in a sustainable manner. i welcome the adoption of the report by mr grosch, entitled 'roadmap for a single european transport area', which supports the objectives of interoperability of transport systems in europe and the reduction of their environmental footprint. building on the proposals set out in the commission's white paper published last march, it takes up ideas that are highly relevant and indispensable to improving transport systems in europe, such as the principle of ease of use, the best use of rail, inland waterway and maritime transport, and the promotion of clean urban transport. this must of course be done with respect for workers, quality of services, safety standards, the environment, at prices that are affordable for all and in a technologically neutral way. these elements are included in the report, and i welcome this.
in writing. i voted against the report on the single european transport area. this text proposes a european area which aims to improve transport conditions solely through the ultra-liberal dogma that, as always, it is up to the market to take the lead. the objectives, however praiseworthy they may seem, are swept away by these deadly logics. on the contrary, public aid is welcome both for the financing of infrastructure and technological programmes such as galileo. and of course, this financial support is not subject to any strategic assessment of the need and effectiveness of the establishment of such corridors. here again, public money could be put to better use.
in writing. the green paper on the application of eu criminal justice legislation in the field of detention reveals an alarming picture of prison overcrowding and the increasing number of prisoners in pre-trial detention suffering from physical or mental disorders, as well as a high number of deaths and suicides. conditions of detention must be compatible with human dignity. the rights of suspects or accused persons must be guaranteed, including the right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment. furthermore, pre-trial detention must remain an exceptional measure and be applied for a limited period only. the european union must remain a model for the protection of fundamental rights. we therefore ask the commission to come forward with a proposal for a law on the rights of persons deprived of their liberty containing minimum standards for the conditions of imprisonment and detention, as well as uniform standards for compensation for persons wrongfully detained or sentenced.
in writing. decent prison conditions are needed in a union of states of law such as the european union. prisoners must be able to enjoy the same fundamental rights as non-captive citizens. unfortunately, the conditions in prisons in many member states are deplorable. overcrowding and suicides are all too often associated with the reality of european prisons. in order to improve prison living conditions, the commission will have to propose new legislation guaranteeing the protection of the fundamental rights of european prisoners and limiting the use of pretrial detention. member states are also invited to increase their funding for prisons. the conditions of life for prisoners must be improved because the rehabilitation of offenders begins in prison.
in writing. i was a co-signer of this joint resolution of our european parliament, and i welcome its adoption: in it we urge the eu states to take urgent measures to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of prisoners, especially vulnerable persons, and we ask the european commission to propose a law on persons deprived of their liberty and minimum standards for conditions of detention. the conditions of detention in the european union are regularly condemned by the european court of human rights (echr) in strasbourg. the latest conviction, a judgment of 20 january 2011, where the echr once again points to the french prison conditions for violation of article 3 (prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment). the european prisons are suffering from many problems, there are human rights abuses, a denial of the dignity of the detained persons, etc. but respect for human rights must not stop at the prison gates, and we must quickly remedy this shameful situation.
in writing. detention conditions in europe are characterised by a very wide disparity, whether in terms of pretrial detention, prison overcrowding, or the detention of minors and third-country nationals. but we have a duty to ensure that the rights of european citizens deprived of their liberty are respected, wherever they are in europe. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to define and implement minimum standards on conditions of detention and uniform standards for compensation for those wrongfully detained or sentenced. member states should devote appropriate resources to the rehabilitation of certain prisons where living conditions are alarming, and ensure that preventive detention is used only as a last resort. it is also essential to ensure the best interests of detained minors and to ensure that states have effective and independent national mechanisms for monitoring prisons and detention centres in order to prevent torture or other inhuman and degrading treatment.
in writing. in europe, more than 630 000 people are currently incarcerated. the european parliament had to react to the alarming picture presented by the european commission in its green paper on prisons in europe - prison overcrowding, massive use of pretrial detention, a high number of prisoners suffering from physical or mental disorders, a high number of deaths and suicides. we therefore urge the member states to take urgent measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, especially the vulnerable, are respected and protected. the commission must also submit a legislative proposal on the rights of persons deprived of their liberty. europe must define and implement both minimum standards for conditions of incarceration and detention and uniform standards for compensation for those wrongfully detained or sentenced. i have supported this resolution and i now hope that action will be taken quickly, both at national and european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the result of the joint work of all the political groups. there are almost 700 000 people in prison in europe at the moment, and these citizens have rights that must be respected. the purpose of this resolution is to highlight the current shortcomings and to propose ways of improving this disastrous situation. the text points to the failure to comply with european regulations in terms of detention in many eu member states, which leads to prison overcrowding, high suicide rates and a lot of physical and mental suffering. the resolution also calls on the commission and the council to recognise certain categories of prisoners as particularly vulnerable, including minors and illegal immigrants, and to translate this recognition into rights. the european union, the champion of respect for human rights, would have everything to gain from enforcing its own fundamental rights even in our prisons. let us hope that this will not be another pious wish, and that this "good" will displayed will not be once again dismissed as a piece of paper.
in writing. relations between the european union and uzbekistan are governed by a partnership agreement concluded in 1996. partnership and cooperation agreements (pcas) between the eu and non-eu countries are designed to promote and consolidate democracy and contribute to the economic development of the countries concerned. in this case, the aim is to extend the agreement to the textile sector. however, several cases of forced child labour in the cotton production sector have been identified. before approving such a protocol, rapporteur george sabin cutas proposed that the international labour organisation (ilo) investigate the matter. i am in favour of such a procedure and have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will ensure legal certainty in trade between the union and the republic of uzbekistan. the implementation of these measures is of course conditional on all the contracting parties complying with the rules laid down by the international labour organisation.
in writing. i supported this report on the signing of an agreement between uzbekistan and the european union on textiles, as it underlines the european parliament's commitment to the protection of children and the fight against forced labour. in the context of this report, the european parliament asks the council to obtain satisfaction on a number of points relating to child labour before concluding the agreement. i have supported recital l, which denounces the penalties imposed on children, teachers and their parents for not complying with work obligations (cotton harvesting).
in writing. i support the pressure on uzbekistan proposed in this report to end forced child labour. this should be a precondition for any partnership agreement, which is clearly not something the negotiators are concerned about. but i am against the desire to privatise and liberalise the agricultural sector which this report advocates. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. this interim report confirms our concerns about the general situation of human rights, democratisation and the rule of law in uzbekistan. i am particularly concerned about the repeated allegations of forced labour, especially of children. several sources tell us that during the cotton harvest, schools are closed and children and teachers have to go to work in the fields, for little or no pay. we have called on the commerce commissioner, karel de gucht, several times, but have never received a satisfactory explanation or commitment. i voted in favour of this report because it makes the approval of a future trade agreement with uzbekistan conditional on confirmation by ilo observers that concrete reforms have been implemented and have produced tangible results, resulting in the effective phasing out of the practice of forced labour and forced child labour at national, provincial and local levels.
in writing. i voted against several paragraphs of the resolution on the mobility of workers within the european union, and against the resolution as a whole, because i consider that this resolution, added at the last minute to the agenda of the plenary session, has not been the subject of sufficient debate in the parliamentary committees concerned. moreover, although we are deeply european and strongly defend the free movement of workers within the eu every day, i believe that the current economic context requires us to concentrate our efforts at national level, in order to combat youth unemployment in particular.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the free movement of workers in the european union. the aim of this text was to open the labour markets of the eu member states fully to romanian and bulgarian workers. the resolution was added to the agenda of the plenary in extremis and was not examined in advance by the committee responsible. the member states have until 31 december this year to use the possibility offered by the treaties to postpone the full opening of their labour markets by two years. the european parliament, through this resolution, expresses its wish to see the barriers to the full free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers removed by the end of this year. that is why i voted against this resolution. of course, i am in favour of the free movement of workers within the european area, but the unprecedented crisis we are going through, the extent of unemployment - especially among young people - forces us to concentrate all our efforts at national level so that our fellow citizens can find their way back to employment.
in writing. the resolution calls on the member states to lift the transitional restrictions they impose on bulgarian and romanian citizens. it recalls that the right to live and work in another member state of the union is a fundamental element of citizenship of the union. in this sense, it sends a positive political signal. but it supports the commission's proposal to allow states to justify the maintenance of their restrictions where the resolution i proposed with my group calls for the lifting of these restrictions before the end of 2011, in line with the accession timetable. the right of workers to freedom of movement and establishment cannot be allowed to take precedence over the free movement of capital in this europe. the decline in civil rights in europe is a disgrace.
in writing. this report highlights many of the points i share in respecting human rights and the environment. unfortunately, this is just a mask for imperialist views. the text sees central asia primarily as a "potential source of energy security for the union". it also called on the countries of central asia to join the wto and to implement 'market-oriented structural reforms'. i vote against it.
in writing. accidents and work-related illnesses now affect between 168 000 and 7 million european citizens. although there is european legislation on health and safety at work, these figures are still too high! i therefore voted in favour of the delli report which calls for an evaluation of the effects of new technologies and for the inclusion of nanomaterials, the use of which poses certain risks, in the legislation in force.
in writing. every year, 168 000 european citizens die from work-related accidents or diseases, and 7 million are victims of accidents at work. the increasing number of sick leave for physical and psychological reasons is a sign of the great unease in the world of work in europe today. ensuring health and safety at work is therefore one of the major challenges in the daily lives of employees. good working conditions are necessary to ensure trust in the relationship between workers and employers. i fully support the values advocated by mrs delli's own-initiative report, which was adopted by a very large majority on thursday 15 december. the recognition and assessment of the potential risks associated with the use and presence of new technologies - such as nanomaterials - in the workplace is an important step forward. above all, awareness of the challenge of work-related stress is crucial. stress is a major barrier to productivity in europe and is characterised by a real feeling of malaise among many workers. to counteract this, there is still a need to increase awareness and understanding among employers, workers and their representatives.
in writing. technological developments and changing economic and social conditions are constantly changing workplaces and practices. the european parliament called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work and for the adoption of a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work. in this context, persons responsible for warning of potential risks at their workplace must be able to enjoy a certain degree of protection in order to avoid that these persons are subject to pressure (threat of dismissal, etc.). we, the members of the european parliament, ask the commission to propose a directive on this matter in the near future. moreover, stress at work is not yet sufficiently taken into account by employers, workers and their representatives, which is why we also want the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the framework agreement on stress at work in the eu is properly implemented in each member state.
in writing. the delli report aims to propose a mid-term evaluation of the european strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2012. i was very much involved in this issue, and i was the epp's fictitious rapporteur for the kadenbach opinion in the envi committee. i supported this report in plenary because it is a good report, which seeks to take account of the new psychosocial, environmental and physical issues (in particular musculoskeletal disorders).
in writing. this text is a good start. it's too bad it's only declarative. it develops a comprehensive conception of the risks of occupational accidents and diseases. it stresses in particular the precarious nature of work and its consequences for workers' health. the committee is concerned about the progressive taxation of workers in atypical forms of work, such as part-time work, teleworking, reduced hours, sunday work and night work. it also called for the introduction of sanctions for companies which do not respect workers' rights and for the strengthening of labour inspection. these are all positive points which make me vote for this text despite the wish it expresses to 'extend the working life of older workers' which may raise the retirement age of our fellow citizens, which i condemn. i shall vote in favour of it, however.
in writing. we have legislated a lot on health and safety at work: the osh framework directive, several specific directives, the reach regulation... yet more than 160 000 european citizens die each year from work-related illnesses or accidents. it is therefore important to ensure that the spirit of the texts is respected when they are implemented in the member states and to ensure that the crucial role of labour inspectorates on the spot is strengthened. this report, which i supported, proposes in parallel to adapt and develop this european legislative acquis, to take account of several current challenges, including: the prevention of psychosocial risks at the workplace; the preservation of physical and mental integrity in a context of extended working life; or the consideration of potential risks linked to new technologies, dangerous substances, nanomaterials. finally, the prevention and protection policies must be adapted to cover new categories of workers at risk (chemical risks, radioactive substances, toxic substances) or workers with atypical forms of employment (temporary, posted, seasonal, part-time or teleworking workers, etc.).
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i will not comment on the assassination of mr rafiq tagi, nor on the human rights situation in azerbaijan. i have had the opportunity to do so before in this house. i would like to express my regret, once again, at the choice of our emergencies and the way we deal with them. i would like to speak about the situation of the refugees in the ashraf camp: 3,500 people are currently in that camp, including 1,000 women and many children. the united states has just announced the withdrawal of its troops by december 31, 2011; i do not regret it, but i am thinking that from this date, no protection will be provided to the refugees in camp ashraf. what will happen to them, as the iraqi government continues to consider them terrorists? the un, the council of europe, mrs ashton are all calling for protection for these people. unhcr says he needs time. why has the council of ministers refused to take account of mrs ashton's request to take in these refugees who have links with their member states? i believe - and i will stop here, mr president - that once again, unfortunately, the french government has been in the forefront. i'm really sorry about that.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are once again going to be outraged by the situation in afghanistan and pakistan, and in particular by the situation of women's rights, including the right to vote. it has already been said, these countries are the unfortunate champions of violations of women's rights: life expectancy, rape, murder, honor killings. the list is long and many of my colleagues have already given examples. i don't think the presence of military forces in afghanistan has brought anything to afghan women, nor will the withdrawal of these forces make anything worse. however, we must put pressure on these countries to change things, and not just from a legal point of view. we have partnership agreements with these countries, so let's use them to good effect, in the interest of the civilian population, in the interest of human rights, in the interest of democracy. let us learn from the mistakes of the past, especially in the maghreb! let us live the clauses of democracy and human rights, and we shall all be better off.
author. - mr president, i am a little surprised that we are here today to consider an emergency resolution on human rights in tunisia. i would have preferred the majority of this parliament to have paid more attention to this before december 2010. we know, as do the tunisian democrats, how silent the european union was until 14 february 2011 on the human rights violations under the ben ali regime. i must admit that the first line of our resolution is not without flavour in this respect. read it and you'll see! but the past is the past, and it can't be rewritten. we can just try to learn from it. tunisia is moving towards a democratic transition. the elections on 23 october were a success. the results are in. we must respect the choice of the tunisian people. it is to be welcomed that the new tunisian authorities have already signed a large number of international conventions. we must help them to implement them without interfering. the former rcdists are still flooding the administration, especially the judiciary and the police. the burps mentioned here bear witness to this. let us help the new tunisia, but let us avoid giving it lessons. and above all, commissioner, let us avoid being more demanding of this new tunisia than we have been in the past in terms of democracy and human rights. let's be careful how we deliver messages to them. i think it's very important.
in writing. it's been a year since ben ali left power. a year later, however, the same practices as under the old regime are still in place. the regular use by the police of violent practices and acts against the population, contrary to tunisia's international human rights commitments, is also noted. the events at tunis-carthage airport on 13 november are one example. zacharia bouguira, a student, witnessed acts of violence by the police against a group of young moroccans. he filmed the scene with his cell phone so that it could be broadcast. his initiative was immediately stopped by a security guard, and he was severely beaten. a complaint has been filed. i therefore call on the authorities to engage in a process of reform of the security sector (including police and justice), to ensure the independence of the judiciary and to guarantee the freedom and independence of the press and media. i believe that for these reforms to be accepted by the population, the broadest possible involvement of civil society organisations active in this field is necessary.
