on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the upheaval in tunisia is undoubtedly a reflection of people’s frustration at the country’s political stagnation and its relative economic stagnation. the flagrant corruption and wealth of the ruling family elite contrasted sharply with the high levels of poverty and unemployment among ordinary people. former president ben ali paid the supreme price for failing to meet the expectations and aspirations of his people, but i do not agree with some assessments, particularly in the green group, that his government was one of the most repressive in the arab world. tunisia has been an example, in some ways, of a modern, secular and progressive arab country. for example, polygamy and veils were banned and foreign direct investment and tourism were encouraged. tunisia has managed to resist the efforts of violent jihadis to undermine the integrity of its secular society. it is therefore essential that tunisia’s political leaders – the new leaders that will now emerge – protect that legacy, because salafist extremists will undoubtedly try to take advantage of the chaos and turmoil that will advance their dangerous agenda, which obviously also threatens european political objectives, including foreign policy objectives. tunisia’s new political leadership also needs to understand that poor governance and gross inequality offer a fertile breeding ground for violent radicalism. i am encouraged that the interim leadership has promised substantial reforms because embarking on such a path will greatly strengthen tunisia’s relationship with the european union. in the meantime, my group calls for maximum restraint by the security forces and for the arrest and trial of the ancien regime’s presidential guard leadership responsible for the shooting, in the last few days, of innocent bystanders, in a futile attempt to destabilise the country. i congratulate the army on its professionalism in protecting the republic’s institutions. we in the eu must give the new tunisian government of unity every assistance and also afford every assistance to eu citizens, including british citizens, who are stranded, having been in tunisia on a holiday.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, you made some remarks at the beginning of the debate about free and fair elections and good representative government and you asked us to support the people of tunisia. no democrat could disagree. people will tolerate a lot from incompetent, corrupt governments, but push them too far and they will rebel. it is a doctrine of internal security services that any population is only three days away from riots and civil unrest when the food supplies run out. are there any parallels to be drawn between what is happening in tunisia and the european union? the eu gives undemocratic and incompetent government. it has a political class that is increasingly detached from the wishes of its people. there is high youth unemployment in many countries in europe as a direct result of eu policies. there are already riots and civil unrest in greece due to its purely ideological commitment to the european single currency. countries like spain, portugal and ireland may soon follow greece as their economies become untenable in the straitjacket of the euro. do not think that it cannot happen in european countries. when governments become the enemies of their own people then the people will eventually rebel. i agree with what you said in your introduction but let us see those principles applied in europe as well as in other countries of the world.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is a good way to start the new year with this debate and tomorrow’s vote on the deal concluded under the belgian presidency on this important report on construction products. i would like to start by thanking all colleagues who made this possible for their hard work, their thoughtfulness and commitment to making this proposal a reality. i would also like to put on record my thanks to the imco secretariat and to the belgian presidency, in particular to mr vertessen and mr haerynck for all their dedicated work. as i said in my report quoting the poet robert frost - ‘good fences make good neighbours’ (with an implied question mark). it is important that we maintain the momentum to complete the internal market and break down barriers to trade. as mario monti in his report on the single market acknowledges, ‘europe is still in a phase of “market construction” that requires breaking down barriers to cross border activity, cutting dead wood of national administrative and technical barriers and overcoming corporate resistance’. with this proposal we have attempted to make the single market work more effectively, we have attempted to have clearer and more transparent systems in place so that products placed on the market are of the highest standards and that the construction industry has a fairer market place to trade within. currently the construction industry is facing the economic challenges caused by the global financial meltdown of 2008 and exacerbated by the slow economic recovery we face across the eu. we should never forget what an important sector the construction industry is – 12 million eu citizens are directly employed in the sector and 26 million eu citizens are dependent on it – that is 38 million people reliant on the sector. for economic growth construction is essential for jobs and employment. it is also one of the most dangerous sectors to work within. taking germany, whose safety record is second to none, one construction worker in 5000 will suffer a fatal accident during their lifetime. the health and safety of those who work at the coalface of construction should always be remembered and it is important to have acknowledgement of this in the report. it was with this in mind that we successfully managed on both sides to come to some agreement on the issue of labelling hazardous substances, so that the report was in line with reach but also helps those who work with products which in the past have led to chronic conditions and death – conditions such as asbestos-related mesotheliomia and, to an extent, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease caused by working conditions and by inhaling dust. the proper labelling of hazardous substances can help those with these lung conditions and illustrates how interlinked our work here is. i am proud of the fact that this report was conducted and concluded under the european year of the lung. lung health is so often neglected and i was delighted that in this parliament we recognised its importance. i would also like to briefly comment on smes. in parliament we are urged to ‘think small first’ and this should carry throughout our work. this is why we have managed to create a second stream for smaller corporations to place their products on the internal market and the system should make it cheaper and more practical for smes to reach a larger market place which can only increase their trading potential. on the separate issue over transparency concerning who serves on technical bodies and how they work, i think that we have moved the bodies which approve products further than was originally foreseen. the transparency over processes and the approval of products can only help break down the walls and barriers which exist in the european union today. this should help companies in the eu, and in particular the special conditions set for micro-enterprises are also helpful in these tough economic conditions. in the european union we should always strive for better regulation. along with my shadow rapporteurs, i have modified the sections of the report which are no longer relevant or which were so unclear that no one was able to follow them or ensure their application. for an industry such as the construction sector it is imperative that the rules are clear and i look forward to seeing the difference these particular changes will make. the scale is huge and the challenges many, but today these new rules which will come into force through member states in the next 24 months will help the construction sector as we attempt to create economic growth and, through this, jobs.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank mrs stihler for her hard work. it has been a very long road. in europe today, the construction sector directly employs 12 million eu citizens. in addition, approximately 92% of the manufacturers of construction materials are small and medium-sized enterprises – this amounts to over 65 000 individual businesses. clearly, the construction sector is vital for the european economy, and we have a responsibility to the industry to help support it, especially after the economic crisis. there are many aspects of this report which produced something of a stalemate between many of us, such as the nature of eu legislation. it is not perfect, it is a compromise. key issues included the declaration of performance or ce marking, where a successful agreement was made to ensure micro-enterprises do not face the same burdens as larger companies. on tackling and identifying hazardous substances in construction products, we managed to broker a compromise ensuring no conflict with existing reach regulations. i hope that this second-reading agreement will have real results and will encourage the free movement of construction products, improve standards across the eu and promote the recycling of construction products in future whilst, most importantly, not increasing bureaucratic burdens on businesses or confusing consumers.
madam president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to associate myself very much with many of the remarks – in fact all the remarks, i think – that people have made on the work that catherine stihler has done. i think that taking over a complex dossier for a second reading and coming into our committee to do that has been a tough task which she has done extremely well. i would remark that it shows the importance of the second-reading procedure in this house, because we have been able to make significant improvements to the text of the position that we received from the council. as mrs rühle in particular pointed out, we had some disagreements with them. we have a letter from the hungarian presidency on some of the detailed issues which will be published with the minutes. i just want to make two concluding remarks in endorsing this agreement. the first is to say to you, commissioner, in thanking you for your work with us, that we need to work very closely with you on the implementation of this proposal. as you pointed out, there are important aspects of comitology here and my committee is absolutely behind the need to follow up these proposals very seriously. secondly, i think that this is an absolutely crucial sector and we do need to keep it under review, as many colleagues have said, to make sure that there are in effect no market barriers put in place that are going to stop it contributing vitally to the european economy.
rapporteur. − madam president, thank you to all colleagues who have taken the time to speak this afternoon and evening. i think commissioner tajani’s comments about partnership working, the road map and the issue of eurocodes, which mrs rühle and (i think) mr schwab also mentioned, are important and that we take forward the good cooperation that we have had. it is a compromise that we have reached and there are some things colleagues might have liked in this compromise that we did not manage to get in, but parliament managed to secure 75% of the amendments that we thought were important within this text, and that is no mean feat. there is something that struck me throughout this debate. the construction sector is so vitally important to our economies for future growth, for jobs, that i would like to ask the president whether we can make sure there is an annual debate in this house on the construction sector, to take forward the cooperation that the commissioner has offered to us and to make sure that we always place the importance on the construction sector that this house should do, given that 38 million people rely on the construction sector for their jobs. so, thank you, madam president, thank you, commissioner, and i look forward to the weeks, months and years ahead because the construction debate will continue in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and i for one will certainly be following it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i sympathise totally with the position that many german farmers find themselves in at the present time. i had this experience about two years ago in northern ireland when we went through a very similar exercise. the people who really suffered in this were the farmers who were not actually involved in any way at all. i think the word ‘criminal’ has been mentioned here and there are those with criminal intent who have been involved in this. we have to ask why they do it, and whether they are doing it to make a lot of extra money, as mr häusling says. if they are, they should be prosecuted for it. but we should make it very clear that it is not those who are producing food that are responsible. it is the providers of the feed to those who are producing the food that are responsible. we must take action against these people to make sure that it does not happen and to restore consumer confidence. i can well understand why consumer confidence should be shaken at this moment. as someone said, this has happened before and it should not be allowed to happen again. let us not simply go wholesale and bring in new legislation. let us implement what we have.
madam president, i would like to declare an interest: i am a british egg producer. the dioxin contamination appears to be a consequence of the failure to adhere to the more rigorous processing standards needed for animal feed, as opposed to the less demanding process used to convert rapeseed to biofuel. the eu’s enthusiasm for biofuels can therefore have unintended consequences. in my view, however, this is not a matter for the eu. it will not be solved by – and certainly does not need – extra regulation. the germans have identified a problem, they have told us about it and they are taking the necessary steps. in the uk we have a comprehensive assurance scheme called the lion code. it covers both animal feed production in the mill and egg production on the farm, thus ensuring that incidents like this are highly unlikely. so, if any of you are insistent on top quality eggs, ‘ask for the lion’ and british producers will be delighted to supply you.
madam president, as we have heard, dioxin is a dangerous chemical which is known to cause cancer, and in this instance it entered the food chain when chemicals meant for use in biofuels were accidentally used in animal feed. some test results from the agriculture ministry in schleswig-holstein have shown that the fat in the feed contained 77 times the approved amount of dioxin. the rapid alert system for food and feed is designed to protect european consumers from exactly these types of contamination. by the time the alarm was raised, contaminated products were all over germany and other parts of the eu, even in uk quiches, which were removed from supermarket shelves as a precautionary measure. this is not the first dioxin scare. we have had problems with mozzarella from italy, pork products in ireland and cattle products in northern ireland. what we want to know from the commission is why this rapid alert system has again failed to protect consumers, and what the commission is going to do to put it right.
madam president, we have had a number of incidents like this over the years. i would have thought that by now the importance of traceability and quality assurance would be well understood and that the structures and regulations ought to be in place to prevent incidents like this. this raises a number of very serious concerns. firstly, it is extremely damaging to consumer confidence in the food industry and, secondly, it is always the farmers who are the innocent parties. it is always the farmers who suffer a disproportionate effect when compared to the consequences for the food-processing industry. i am reasonably satisfied that the german authorities, and the commissioner and his team, took reasonable, appropriate and swift action when they were aware that there was a problem. nevertheless, a number of very serious questions arise – questions about the behaviour of some sectors of the processing industry where, clearly, more needs to be done by way of prevention, more needs to be done by way of punitive powers where the consequence of this action … (the president cut the speaker off)
author. − madam president, the tropical rainforests in cameroon and the congo are precious and we must welcome this voluntary agreement to address the sustainability of the harvesting of the timber that they contain. the forests belong not only to the people of these countries but they are part of the ecosystem of the planet, they are key to the life-sustaining systems and they contain billions of tons of carbon. halting deforestation is one of the ways that we should be tackling climate change, and governments around the globe have been trying to do this for years. these two countries should be congratulated for their courage and foresight in signing up to these voluntary agreements with the eu. however, regulating and enforcing these agreements will prove a challenge. heaven knows, building in sustainable management of our own continent’s resources is hard enough. but the will is there and for that we should be very pleased. careful management can bring down illegal and unsustainably imported timber. at the moment the amount of timber that is illegally harvested and imported into the eu constitutes almost one fifth of the timber products on our markets, despite parliament and others trying to tackle this. enforcement will be made easier with the involvement of local people and civil society in these countries, and we must ensure that their right to be heard and involved is maintained and listened to. after all, they have the most to lose if their forests are removed. the widespread removal of tropical timber is driven by an insatiable appetite for products to grace our homes. we should value this resource better and take greater care of the resource that not only sustains a whole host of plant and animal species but is slow-growing and takes many years to reach maturity. we must take care not to undermine our own efforts to fight deforestation and climate change by simultaneously providing the largest market for illegal timber products in the world. the result of these agreements may mean that tropical timber reaches a higher price, and that is something that we should not object to. it is not only a limited resource, but it is the only thing that local people have to sell. they know the true value of their resource and with this agreement, so will we. these people are our eyes and ears in the forest and we need their help to enforce the agreements. they need us to support their ability to voice any concerns. these agreements are a two-way process and we look to you, commissioner, to be able to enforce it. the vpas (voluntary partnership agreements) are good for the planet, good for our partner countries and good for the eu. we must ensure that the agreements work and that any breaches are monitored and addressed. then we must look to other countries in africa, asia and south america to sign up to similar agreements as soon as possible and i look forward to working with you and the commission to achieve this.
author. − madam president, let me begin by thanking yannick jadot for his exemplary cooperation with his shadows. we all worked extremely well on this report and i am delighted – as he has said – that we managed to reach a broad consensus. the agreements with congo and cameroon, taken together with ghana, means that some of africa’s most vulnerable forests are now covered by voluntary partnership agreements. the existence of these agreements, as the two previous speakers have said, is to be warmly welcomed. they provide a mechanism for tackling the massive illegal trade in timber. they provide an opportunity for the better management of a vital natural resource and, hopefully, they will bring greater transparency and help us tackle corruption in the forest sector, which unfortunately in africa is endemic at the moment. but, while welcoming these agreements, i nevertheless share with the rapporteur a number of concerns. i would just like to express three this evening. first and foremost, the danger – it is not the intention, but there is a danger – of agreeing such a framework is that it is seen as providing a framework for large-scale exploitation of our forests, leading to the opposite of the purpose of the agreement, namely further degradation and further deforestation, thus contributing to the very destruction of the global environment we are trying to avoid. what we want is an agreement that contributes to the conservation and sustainable management of our biodiversity resources. i agree with the rapporteur that this means that the commission has to constantly monitor the situation and report back regularly on how the agreement is progressing. secondly, indigenous people, who are so often the victims of environmental exploitation, should benefit from this agreement. the promise in the voluntary partnership agreement by the congolese government to promote a law ensuring that the rights of indigenous people are promoted and respected must be delivered upon. again i urge the commission, in their contact with the government, to continually press for the delivery of this promise until it is there on the statute book in the congo. thirdly, we must ensure – and i agree with catherine bearder who mentioned this – that appropriate funds are available to properly implement this agreement. no matter how good an agreement is on paper, without the resources to carry it out, it is a meaningless piece of paper. as has been indicated, there are no financial packages attached to the agreement itself. it is up to us – both the commission to propose, and parliament and council to put into the budget appropriate budgetary facilities – to make this agreement work. that means we need to have money to verify the legality of timber coming into the european union, we need money to train, equip and give the technical expertise to those operating in the african countries we have vpas with, and we also need resources to carry out the monitoring that i have already mentioned. so we need to make sure, in the coming months, that we deliver the financial framework to make a success of these agreements. i repeat that these are good agreements but, like all agreements, they will depend on the goodwill and vigilance of individuals – the non-government organisations, the member states, the congolese and cameroon governments – to deliver on their promises to make sure these agreements work in practice. they should lead to better management of our forests and better management of vital global resources but, if wrongly handled, they could take us in the opposite direction. we look to the commission to keep a beady eye on the progress that is being made.
we now return to the debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we are debating voluntary partnership agreements. these are lovely words, they are good words: they represent a european union that is not trying to impose its will upon developing nations but is trying to lend a helping hand to achieve common goals. yet the practicalities of an agreement with a state the size of congo create all sorts of daunting problems. the size of the state alone is something akin to that of europe; the governance for much of that state is non-existent; corruption levels are quite extraordinary – transparency international puts the republic of congo almost bottom of its league table. then there is the number of staff we have working to ensure that this agreement delivers on its goals – just a handful of people; the profits of illegal logging are absolutely vast and perhaps greater than anything we can offer by way of compensation; and the markets for illegal wood are in countries like china, which may not be paying anything like the attention that we pay, and the respect that should be paid, to maintaining forests. all these problems suggest that voluntary partnerships, however good our intentions, will have difficulty delivering the goals. so what assurances can the commission give us that every possible step will be taken to ensure that our high ambitions here will truly be realised, and that we can all have confidence that these voluntary partnership agreements, as we make them in future, will deliver on the goals we have set?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday (19 january 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the interim partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the pacific states, of the other part (05078/2010 – c7-0036/2010 – 2008/0250(nle)) (a7-0365/2010),– the oral question to the commission on interim partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the pacific states, of the other part, by vital moreira, david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0212/2010 - b7-0807/2010).
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly i would like to say that i know that, for good reasons, commissioner de gucht cannot be with us this evening. i would like to thank him for taking the trouble to call me last week and explain why he is unable to be here, and i would like to thank him and his team at dg trade for their cooperation, and in particular martin dihm for all his assistance. i have tried, in my role as rapporteur, to follow on from the good work of the previous rapporteur, my former colleague glyn ford. i am fortunate that the adoption of glyn’s resolution in 2009 meant that parliament already had a clear position on the ec-pacific interim economic partnership agreement. parliament’s formal position then is the one that i have tried to follow in my report and question today. i would like to thank donatella pribaz, who was the committee administrator responsible. this turned out to be her last report for the committee before her promotion, so i would like to wish her well in her new job and thank her for making my task here easier. finally, in terms of acknowledgements, i would also like to welcome the presence here of the ambassador for papua new guinea and to thank him and his staff for their close collaboration. the insights they provided allowed me to make specific input to the report. firstly, i would like to make a few general remarks on the agreement and the regional context. secondly, i plan to discuss three specific aspects of the epa which i believe it is important to highlight: namely aid for trade, the fijian political situation and fisheries. thirdly, i will comment on the future of ec-pacific trading relations. in terms of the background and regional integration, this interim – or goods only – epa has been negotiated with two pacific states – papua new guinea and fiji. these are the two pacific island states that have the highest levels of trade with the eu and have key exports destined for the eu market: tuna and sugar respectively. the epa gives papua new guinea and fiji duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market in return for the gradual liberalisation of their markets over a 15-year period. papua new guinea has committed to liberalising 88% of eu imports on the date of application of this agreement, and fiji will liberalise 87% over a 15-year period. the remaining 12 pacific states either enjoy duty-free and quota-free access through the everything but arms scheme or, because of their low level of trade with the eu, have very little interest in an interim epa. nevertheless, i believe it is important that, as we move towards a full epa, we should pursue our objective of regional integration and continue to press for a full epa involving all the pacific states. in terms of the content of the resolution, parliament has to consent to this agreement before it can be ratified. we will vote on wednesday – as you have indicated, madam president – on two different reports, firstly on consent, which i am recommending that we give, and secondly on the accompanying motion for a resolution. there are other issues in the motion for a resolution but, as i have said, i want to comment particularly on three. first, regarding aid for trade, funding for implementation is crucial to achieving the agreement’s objectives of economic diversification and poverty alleviation. it is important that a fair and equitable share of the eur 2 billion set aside in the 2007 aid for trade strategy is directed towards the pacific region. it is also important to highlight that this interim epa was conceived as a short-term measure to safeguard the pacific’s trade preferences following the world trade organisation (wto) ruling. bearing that in mind, it should not be seen as a sign of eu acceptance of the political regime in fiji. i would urge the fijian government to make moves towards democracy. i hope that the necessary reforms can take place to allow financial support for the fijian sugar industry to be allocated. on fishing, the fisheries sector plays a key role in papua new guinea’s economy and – importantly – provides employment and income to its citizens. in the three tuna processing plants which export to the eu there are 5700 employees, the majority of whom are women. this is a country where it is sometimes difficult to find good employment for women. i support the purpose of the flexible rules of origin in this agreement, namely to develop the processing industry, but it is essential that the industry develops in a sustainable manner. environmental considerations are paramount and i have asked, in my report, for the commission to monitor this aspect and to report back regularly to parliament on compliance with the regulation on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. i appreciate that there are some concerns in this house – and specifically in the committee on fisheries – about the potential impact of papua new guinea’s tuna imports on the eu industry. however, when we look at the latest figures, we can see that during the period 2003-2009, imports made up around only 2% of total preserved and prepared fish imports and around only 3% of preserved and prepared tuna imports. i do not believe that this low level of imports will threaten the domestic eu industry, especially if we take into account the limited capacity of the pacific states’ fishing fleets and the limited on-land processing capacity. nevertheless, it is of course right that we should continue to monitor the situation and that, if there are any unexpected increases in fishing products coming from papua new guinea, the commission should take appropriate action. as i mentioned earlier, i hope that the pacific states can agree a comprehensive regional epa. in my report i have recommended the inclusion of several points of substance in future negotiations, which i hope the commission will take into account. these include intellectual property. too often we talk about intellectual property from one side only, but i hope that we will look at intellectual property in terms of including traditional knowledge. i also hope we will add transparency in government procurement as well as provision for issuing working visas of up to 24 months. as we move towards a full epa, i hope the commission will involve all the pacific states but, in the meantime, let us press ahead and get the interim epa with png and fiji on the books and working as a demonstration of what we can achieve in the future.
author. − mr president, i will be brief. i find myself almost, indeed entirely, in agreement with the commissioner on this subject. firstly, to repeat, it is important that we sign the interim epa because, if we do not, existing trade preferences for papua new guinea and fiji will disappear, under the wto ruling. the interim epa is precisely that: it is an interim arrangement, and i agree with all the colleagues who say that our objective in the long run should be a full, comprehensive epa with all the pacific countries, encouraging regional integration in the pacific. but we have to take this step at the moment to ensure the continuation of preferences for the two largest countries in the pacific region. on fishing, the commission has made it very clear that what we have here is an exception. this will be the only derogation. there are no other parts of the world to which we intend giving such a derogation. why are we giving a derogation to papua new guinea? i will tell you: it is because papua new guinea is literally on the other side of the world, and the likelihood of eu fishing fleets exploiting that area extensively is limited, although they are free to do so. there is nothing to stop eu fishing fleets fishing in papua new guinea waters and landing their catch and getting their catch canned in papua new guinea – and, as has been said earlier, that would be very good for development, and indeed we should encourage it. but the situation at present is that chinese boats, thai boats and boats of other asian nationalities are fishing in papua new guinea’s waters and landing their fish back in their own country, giving no opportunity for development in papua new guinea. there is a development opportunity here in terms of providing jobs, particularly for women. we often complain that we do not do enough in our development policy to encourage downstream activity. here we are actually doing something positive for downstream activity. as the commissioner has said, in order to qualify the fish still needs to meet all the standards under the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it has to meet all our sanitary and phytosanitary conditions. that is absolutely essential. the three factories in papua new guinea meet these standards at the moment and are providing useful jobs. if we have a sudden increase in the number of factories, and a sudden surge in imports from papua new guinea, then of course we will have to revisit the situation and potentially take action. at the moment, however, the statistics speak for themselves. this agreement has been in place since 2008. there has been no surge. there is no threat to the european tuna industry. i have met, as rapporteur, with the leaders of the spanish tuna industry and they themselves have said to me that there is no current threat. what they are worried about is the future. they accept that at the moment there is no serious threat to the eu industry. so let us not exaggerate the situation. let us not make a poor developing country pay for our preoccupation with our own self-interest.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, adoption is a positive way of providing a new family for children who cannot be brought up by their birth parents, or children who lose their parents. to adopt a child in the uk, checks and vetting procedures are robust, and prospective parents need to be accepted by an adoption agency. the welfare of the child is and should be at the heart of the adoption process. the issue of inter-country adoptions is more complex than national adoption, but i am very grateful to the ppe group for bringing this issue forward. whilst it is to be commended that we try and move forward in it, i have concerns that international adoption does bring risks – risks that have already been mentioned, such as child abuse and malpractice, that undermine the welfare of the child. that is why i believe that all member states need to ensure that their adoption laws are regulated in a way that promotes the interests of the child. member states must work together to ensure that the legal process of adoption between the providing and receiving countries is transparent, robust and holds the child’s welfare as its priority.
mr president, the wide range of instruments which currently govern international adoptions has led to confusion over whose role it is to safeguard the rights of children subject to international adoptions. the commission needs to focus further on the competent authorities, and ensure that those regulating the adopters’ and the adopted children’s rights are making sure that basic minimum standards are adhered to, and that, in the longer term, the child is able to maintain a link to its birth country and its culture. specifically, urgent measures must be taken to react to the abuse and trafficking of children, which, as a report in my own country today shows, is alarmingly on the rise both within and across european borders. child trafficking and child laundering – the stealing of children who are subsequently sold to adoptive parents as legitimate orphans – is a phenomenon which does not receive adequate attention at an international level. i would call on the commission to play a more active role in the field of international adoption, to take concrete steps to improve the convoluted and confused legislative framework which currently governs international adoption in the eu, and to protect those most vulnerable young people.
mr president, i just wanted to add something about kinship care, and support to kinship carers. most kinship carers are grandparents and find themselves being the main caregivers for their grandchildren, normally because the parent either has a drug addiction or has died through that drug addiction. the issue i wanted to bring to this house’s attention is the good work that mentor uk has been doing on the rights of kinship carers. some kinship carers adopt their grandchildren. others do not, but are in a caring relationship with that child and provide a stable and safe home for them. however, the rights of kinship children are often actually less than those of children who are in proper care. this is something which i felt people had touched upon in this debate, but i would urge you, if you are interested in the issue of kinship carers, to look at the work of mentor uk and the help that is given to kinship carers in different countries.
mr president, i rise to make a statement about the plight of hundreds of thousands of airline passengers in europe in the 10 days before christmas and the chaos in the arrangements for transporting them and their baggage to their intended destinations. the failure of our airlines and our airports to deal with a few centimetres of snow in a few member states caused devastating delay, disruption and despair for travellers. i call on parliament’s committee on transport and tourism, the union’s transport commissioner and transport ministers in the council to conduct an inquiry into the disruption, to make provisions to prevent its recurrence, to ensure that those affected are properly compensated, and to study a sharing of the burden of compensation in future between the airline companies and others involved, such as airport operators. unusual snowfalls and uncommonly low temperatures, as predicted in 2009 by the potsdam institute, arise from the melting of the arctic ice cap. they will become more frequent. we cannot prevent them, however much we must try to limit them, but we can – and we must – be prepared for them.
mr president, next week all across the world people will be celebrating the life of scotland’s national poet, robert burns. as many of you know, a central part of a burns supper is a haggis. currently there is a ban in the usa on importing scottish haggis, yet one in three americans claim scottish ancestry and would like to try some authentic scottish haggis. what action can the commission and the council take in their transatlantic dialogues to put scottish haggis back, not just on the agenda, but also on the menu when it comes to american traditional scottish burns suppers?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, serbia’s progress towards eu membership is gathering pace, and rightly so, as evidenced by the excellent kacin report. when i was in serbia last october, i was impressed with the commitment and effort of serbia’s dynamic, western-orientated democratic government. serbia certainly has much work still to be done, relating to judicial reform and the fight against organised crime. we in the ecr also hope that ratko mladić will be caught and sent to the hague, though it is by no means certain that he is on serbian territory. however, it is vital that serbia’s progress is reciprocated and rewarded by the eu and its member states, for example now by ratifying the ssa, not least because some of serbia’s neighbours, such as croatia, are far more advanced on the road to eu accession. serbia’s relationship with kosovo is problematic but not insoluble. i personally believe that an equitable full and final settlement based on partition and the ‘land for peace’ principles we see in the middle east would be the best way forward. in my view, the eu should properly evaluate this option during the forthcoming dialogue brokered by the high representative. to dismiss it out of hand would be dangerously short-sighted, and would only perpetuate kosovo’s state of limbo in terms of international recognition at eu, nato and un level.
madam president, i join those who have praised and welcomed the report by my colleague jelko kacin, and i thoroughly agree with his remarks that serbia’s future lies in the european union and that serbia will become an important player in guaranteeing security and stability in the western balkans region. i have supported the aim of eu membership for the western balkan countries for the last decade, including when i was the vice-chair of the balkans delegation. i worked closely with our rapporteur in championing visa-free travel and i was delighted when that was secured for serbia, among others, a year ago. i think this is a really vital contribution to person-to-person contacts and to raising horizons and, ultimately, to guaranteeing security in its wider sense. some of the challenges that are faced by serbia have already been mentioned. i would like to add something on the challenge of judicial reform. the commission’s progress report last autumn sounded a note of concern about reappointment procedures being carried out in a non-transparent way, jeopardising the principle of independence of the judiciary and creating a high risk of political influence. that is clearly a key issue in terms of the rule of law. in relation to cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, in the hague, mr kacin told the foreign affairs committee last night that serbia is doing absolutely everything in its power to locate and apprehend the remaining two indicted individuals and transfer them to the hague, but serge brammertz, the chief prosecutor, in his speech to the un security council in september, said that serbia needed to bridge the gap between its stated commitment to the arrests and the effectiveness of its operations on the ground. we are not seeing results. serbia needs to adopt a more proactive approach to arresting the fugitives, so i am afraid that there is a gap between rhetoric and reality, and that gap absolutely must be bridged.
mr president, we make laws together but, too often, we do not know how those laws get applied by member states. you have taken the lead in making clear that this parliament supports the commission in wanting to see correlation tables included in all future legislation. the belgian presidency has been very helpful in tabling a paper to the council, in which it promotes the use of correlation tables, emphasising that they help clarity and transparency and will make the application of eu law quicker and more effective. i think that a period of reflection on the matter has been initiated. prime minister, i wonder if, in your concluding remarks, you could tell us what sort of response you have had to that paper and whether the belgian government, in its role as part of the troika and within the council, will continue to press for the inclusion of correlation tables.
mr president, last week the french prime minister came to london and said that we needed to join in the project of assisting the euro. let us leave aside for a moment the question of whether we should again be dragged into somebody else’s problem; let us focus instead on the main logical flaw here. he says ‘european integration is not working, so let us have more european integration!’ i am sure that you can spot the problem in his reasoning here. ‘my dinghy keeps capsizing, so i would like to be put in charge of an ocean liner’. ‘my go-kart has crashed, so please put me at the wheel of an articulated lorry’. it seems that whatever the problem is, the answer is always closer european integration. the eu is a solution in search of a problem, but surely the day is coming when we can no longer impose ourselves both on the markets and on public opinion. the spell is breaking and the shamanistic incantations are losing their force.
mr president, this report highlights the need for food security for the citizens whom we represent. it also emphasises the important public goods which farmers produce, often with little or no recognition. however, i feel that there is going to be a problem. i have recently heard major speeches which indicate that the common agricultural policy should actually shift to being an environmental policy. this i think will ultimately lead us to mistakenly believe that we can do without european farmers, and maybe just import food from outside of the eu. this should not be the case. our farmers should be supported to produce food in a way which is not harmful to the environment, and as for importing food, world markets are simply too volatile – both in terms of price and in terms of consistency of supply. there are a number of things that we must do. we must have a strong budget for the common agricultural policy. we must encourage young farmers into the industry to secure a future for it. we must have more research and innovation to make production methods more efficient, and we must have less red tape – and certainly no green tape to tie up our farmers.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which is a simple piece of housekeeping updating the existing agreement to take into account the accession of bulgaria and romania. the proposal has no impact on the eu budget and is uncontroversial.
in writing. − i voted to give consent to this agreement. the agreement is one of the horizontal air service agreements whose aim is to bring existing bilateral air service agreements in line with eu law. this is as a result of the 2003 ecj decision that gave the community exclusive competence in regard to various aspects of external aviation which had traditionally been governed by bilateral air service agreements. just as with other horizontal air agreements, this agreement provides for an eu designation clause permitting all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment, deals with safety issues and the taxation of aviation fuel and resolves potential conflicts with eu competition rules.
in writing. − i wish to congratulate my scottish colleague catherine stihler on her good work on this very technical subject. i voted for the report, which should ensure more transparency for bodies that create standards in the construction industry, places an emphasis on recycling and gives smes an easier route to the single market with simplified procedures.
in writing. − i am extremely pleased that the construction report, for which i was rapporteur, was supported and voted into legislation by my colleagues. the report will result in hazardous substances being listed on the labelling of construction products and further studies to follow on the subject from the commission. there are also provisions to make it easier for smes to place their products on the internal market. the need for greater transparency in approving products with the ‘ce’ marking has been addressed and i look forward to the measures being introduced in july 2013.
in writing. − the construction industry represents various vital issues in the european union, ranging from its significant contribution to the economy to the safety of eu citizens in their homes and places of work. my vote in favour of the construction products regulation reflects the need for a modernised, safe and transparent directive on construction products. the proposal calls for improvements to health and safety procedures across the sector and clear declarations of hazardous substances. furthermore, the provision of a ‘ce’ mark of confidence on products will give those conducting their own projects the confidence that the materials they are using are safe. the european economy is based heavily on the construction sector, which accounts for 10% of eu gdp and directly employs 12 million eu citizens. most of those employed find themselves in smes, which form a vital part of the european economy. however construction remains one of the most dangerous areas of work. i thus support this regulation to improve the safety of european citizens in their places of work and at home, whether they be carrying out projects independently or professionally.
in writing. − ukip believes that the best reaction to a humanitarian disaster is for independent nation states to coordinate their aid efforts voluntarily, and not to have them set centrally by the undemocratic eu. we note the debacle of the eu’s slow and small efforts in haiti, and thus we feel that the eu cannot be trusted in future humanitarian crises.
in writing. − the eu as a bloc is the world's largest contributor of humanitarian aid. nevertheless, recent catastrophes have highlighted certain shortcomings in the eu's ability to act in a speedy, efficient and coordinated manner. the striffler reports underlines some of these concerns and it is to be hoped that positive action results from today's vote.
in writing. − i strongly welcome this report, which makes suggestions on how the consensus on humanitarian aid can be strengthened. it highlights a number of areas that require more attention, including the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law; issues of quality, coordination and consistency in the delivery of eu humanitarian aid; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the un guidelines, and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
in writing. − 14/1: i voted in favour of this as i perceive it to be a weakening of eu legislation and will result in it becoming easier to import non-gm soya beans into the uk. this is a critical issue for our poultry sector. 14/2: i voted in favour of this as it will reduce the negative impact of eu legislation on cargoes of non-gm soya beans destined for the uk. 14/3: i abstained on this because although it may be a desirable aspiration (for a uk government free of eu control), it is not yet a critical issue in my view and i do not wish to extend eu power.
in writing. − i voted against the sârbu report despite its numerous good points. food is a fundamentally important issue and one which is going to be of increasing significance. it is essential that the eu takes a coordinated stance in relation to its agriculture sector in order to face the challenges which lie ahead. however, i do not consider that gmos have a legitimate role to play in achieving security of food supplies and i could not support a report which proposes to give the green light to genetic modification.
in writing. − i voted for this report, but abstained on the three parts of amendment 14 which dealt with gmos. i am not intrinsically against gm foodstuffs but was nervous at this attempt to speed up the importation of gm material and the use of production methods from third countries. the scientific evidence that gm is safe must be robust, and the public must have full confidence that the appropriate authorities have taken all necessary safety precautions and carried out rigorous testing. this cannot be rushed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – president barroso, i know that the european trade union confederation has already raised very strong objections about the detailed interference by the commission in the greek and irish labour markets, riding roughshod over collective bargaining and social dialogue. your new annual growth survey promises more of the same. your officials are calling for a revision of indexation clauses and pay deals, the promotion of flexible work, a review of unemployment benefits and a reduction of over-protection of workers. do you not agree that the commission should be looking to promote social dialogue and collective bargaining rather than undermining it? and, as the issue of pay is specifically excluded from the social chapter of the treaty, what legal basis is the commission using to interfere in national collective bargaining systems? also, the doubling of the fiscal consolidation effort called for in the survey is going to choke off any possibility of achieving the 2020 process goals. what is your answer to that?
on behalf of the s&d group. – president barroso, why is it that all the focus seems to be upon labour markets? what about the other markets that we need to deal with here – the financial market, the internal market, the commodity markets? all the focus seems to be on labour markets. why should the least well off, the workers, be carrying the cost of this recession and the need to repair it?
on behalf of the efd group. – last week a member of the european court of auditors, who retired recently after 15 years of service, made serious allegations in the media. the allegations, which come as no surprise to me, pointed essentially to the lack of independence of the eu auditors, which affects the level of transparency in the reporting of irregularities. the clarification letter published yesterday by mr engwirda does nothing more than confirm the commission’s power over the auditors, and it calls into question the basis on which this parliament has been granting discharge for the past 15 years. it is now time for this parliament to demand that the eu budget and accounts are audited by a truly independent body external to the eu institutions. without such an independent audit, the council and parliament are in no position to continue discharging the commission of its financial responsibility. will you, mr barroso, allow an external auditor to review the accounts and tell us the truth about how european taxpayers’ money is being spent?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr barroso, i disagree with your response. in response to the criticism made by the european court of auditors in the last ten years, the commission has turned to the auditors – and this is recorded by the media – and asked them to change their methodology of work so that the report on eu expenditure would show a better figure. in my 30 years of professional experience in the area of accounting and audit, i have never seen the auditee instruct the auditor on how to do its own work. how can we now know if a reduction in the error rate is due to the change in methodology requested by the commission or to an improvement in the controls?
president of the commission. − this is also a global process, not only a european process. cancún was a significant step in the climate negotiations, at least it was able to keep alive the multilateral process and this was good, but in fact it was not enough from our point of view. for us to go forward and commit to binding targets, i think we should ask others, namely the biggest polluters, the developing and emerging economies to make a comparable effort. so far they have not committed to it. so that is why we have to find the right way to make them move. at the same time, those countries that are ready to go forward and make more commitments can and should do so, and the concrete way that i am going to propose to the european council on 1 february is to achieve more in terms of energy efficiency, an area in which we are falling short of where we should be. on renewables i think we are on target to reach our goal for 2020 but not on energy efficiency so that is a concrete area where we can make more progress.
to ensure energy security and low costs to consumers in the future, europe must use all types of low carbon energy. that includes clean coal technology – an area in which, until now, development has been very slow. can the president of the commission therefore give an assurance that support for research into carbon capture and storage will continue into the future?
president of the commission. − i can give an assurance that we will try to achieve it. but in the end, you know, the member states decide on the funding for research. that is a matter that we are going to discuss when we present the multi-annual financial perspectives. but i certainly hope that member states will give priority to investment in renewables and low-carbon technologies, and focus on the technology priorities established in the european strategic energy technology plan. we are indeed proposing this for the next european council.
president barroso, you said just now that member states are achieving less than half what they set out to achieve on the 20% target for energy saving by 2020, so why is the commission not pushing hard to make that target binding on member states?
research and innovation are vital to drive the competitiveness of our economies. last year, for the first time, a european university topped the world league tables for scientific research. it was cambridge university, based in the region i represent. at that university, but also at many less well-known institutions and businesses large and small, i have seen cutting-edge research funded by the eu through the eur 50 billion framework programme. sadly though, this framework programme also has a reputation for being the most complex and bureaucratic in the world. last autumn this parliament voted unanimously on a series of recommendations to simplify that bureaucracy. what is the commission doing to implement those reforms?
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare (11038/2/2010 - c7-0266/2010 - 2008/0142(cod)) (rapporteur: françoise grossetête) (a7-0307/2010).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, many in this house will remember that at first reading this was an extremely hot topic, and i think we are hearing only some of the differences between us. there were concerns about whether market forces would win out over services of general interest; and that people who were concerned about patients’ rights to choose, and to travel, were being pitted against those who were asking which patients would actually exercise that choice. i think what we have, at the end of the day, is a reasonable compromise. as people have pointed out, in cases where things are medically necessary, with a need for urgent treatment, we already have a system in place under social security coordination. this directive is more concerned with the market system, with choice, and with people’s ability to choose where to go, and to have money follow them. so we have clarity now, in that member states can put in place systems to enable them to ensure that needs can be met. this directive should also be welcomed because it deals with issues around the legal dimension and legal certainty: with where responsibility for follow-up treatment lies; with the question of redress if there are problems; and with issues around ensuring that procedures are carried out by qualified medical professionals. on the issue of rare diseases, we have also achieved a compromise that is better than what we were pursuing first time round. as people have said, for many patients this will work well, but we also need to take care of our patients in our own member states.
mr president, this directive has taken concrete steps to consolidate patients’ rights in accessing health care services across the eu. i have taken an interest in this directive as the implementation will have a particular impact in my constituency of wales where, despite the uk government negotiating with the eu on health matters, the subsequent management and delivery of healthcare is a devolved competence delivered through the welsh assembly government. my initial concerns are at the potential impact on the welsh healthcare system, regarding reimbursement and prior authorisation, have been resolved as a degree of flexibility has been built into these proposals. the ability for member states and regional pairs to have the capacity to decide on eligible treatments with prior authorisation and a setting of a cap on reimbursements will go some way in alleviating concerns about the already overstretched and burdened healthcare systems. as a result of the work of my colleagues in this parliament, past and present, especially mr bowis, we can be content in having taken a step forward in ensuring clarification for patients, improved healthcare choice and greater cooperation between the different eu healthcare systems. this should lead to a rise in standards throughout the eu, through patient choice.
we are now going to start the catch-the-eye procedure. i have 17 people who have asked for the floor. given the importance and the significance of this measure i intend to take everybody, but you must keep to one minute and the microphone will be switched off at that point. can i just say to the parents of this measure, to john bowis in the strangers’ gallery and to mrs grossetête the current rapporteur, and to all the shadow rapporteurs: patient power has spoken; the european parliament has listened. thank you all very much.
mr president, i am deeply disturbed that our amendment to require medical regulators in one country to tell their eu counterparts when a health professional is facing disciplinary or criminal proceedings failed at the committee stage and will not be put to the final vote on this new eu cross-border health law. let me tell you about the case of german doctor daniel ubani, who unlawfully killed my cambridgeshire constituent david gray by administering 10 times the recommended dose for a painkiller. he was struck off in britain yet he continues to practise in germany today. then there is the case of dr marcos ariel hourmann, convicted for manslaughter for deliberately administering a lethal injection in spain, yet working at the accident and emergency department of west suffolk hospital, also in my constituency, despite a clear request to spain about his fitness to practise. these examples show that there is a huge loophole in european law, which allows health professionals recognised as unfit to practise in one of our countries the opportunity to work and to put patients at risk in another. i would ask the commissioner to explain why.
mr president, the importance of health care and this directive cannot be overemphasised. it can have fundamental consequences for member states’ health systems. the areas that are controversial and worrying have been dealt with, i am pleased to say, and the result is a strong, defining directive that will strengthen member state positions in health care. the challenge was to protect the integrity of healthcare systems while offering patients greater choice. the need for member states to retain control over the policy direction and budgetary requirements of their health services was met by the pre-authorisation clause and the fact that member states would choose which services were carried out. e-health was also dealt with in a very sensible fashion in that it is offered in order to provide flexibility, and member states can pick it up if they wish and when they wish. overall we have before us a piece of work that secures member states’ autonomy in their health systems while offering patients best service. i congratulate the rapporteur and john bowis for a job well done.
mr president, i would like to ask mr häfner if he would agree that the commissioner’s comments on the matter of broncho-air that we heard earlier have been thoroughly evasive and unhelpful to the company in particular and to asthma suffers in general?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, 750 000 people in the uk suffer from dementia; over 50% of these will have alzheimer’s. the effects are common but everyone’s experience is different. there is no cure for this condition which often holds hostage both patient and carer regardless of age. but what can be done in the eu? legislation is clearly secondary in what primarily needs local support. however, firstly by bringing this topic to this chamber, we can bring it to the forefront, open discussion and increase public awareness. leading from this, member states can decide on its prioritisation and sharing of best practice. secondly, awareness can lead to a greater understanding of the symptoms and, consequently, early diagnosis. there are drugs on the market that can assist here and, if taken at the correct time, can slow down the process. the important point is this: sufferers are helped, families have information and support and, ultimately, the patients are helped to retain their dignity through this difficult illness.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, apparently a small german company, bronchoair of munich, has produced an inhaler which can actually improve the life of asthma sufferers who rely on such devices to breathe. this product has been shut out of the market for over 14 years, and the commissioner’s account of why this has been was very different from the that of the chair of the committee on petitions who opened the debate. the committee on legal affairs has stated, and i quote: ‘the company has been the victim of a flagrant denial of justice’ on the part of the commission. why does the commission favour the big pharmaceutical companies and their lobbyists? in this case the uk independence party, which i have the honour to represent, strongly supports the immediate setting up of an inquiry into the commission’s handling of this matter.
mr president, as has already been stated in this chamber today, in the united kingdom almost three-quarters of a million people currently suffer from some form of dementia. sixteen thousand of those live in my constituency in northern ireland. alzheimer’s is a cruel disease. it strips sufferers of their personality, it takes away their independence and robs them eventually of their relationship with family and friends. it is a devastating disease which places huge burdens on families and carers, who are often isolated and in poor health because of the burdens they face. as has already been mentioned in this house, many of those who care are women. in the united kingdom by 2050 the number of those with dementia is estimated to soar to approximately 1.7 million. the estimated cost of health and social care by 2018 will be gbp 27 billion. these are staggering figures, which make research absolutely vital and the careful targeting of resources in medical and social care an absolute imperative. i also believe that we should recognise the contribution of the voluntary and community sector in this. commissioner, you have made much of healthy and active ageing and i am proud to highlight the work of the mullen mews scheme in belfast, which has driven off international competition to win awards for its social inclusion and improvement of the lives of those who live with dementia and their families and carers.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good work on this report. whilst this report on alzheimer’s is very important, we know that the power for implementing policy lies mainly with the member states. but the ageing population is one of the most pressing challenges for the future and we know that dementia is one of the main causes of disability and dependence among the elderly. currently the main responsibility of care tends to lie with the spouse or child of the dementia patient, which can be extremely hard work and emotionally gruelling. this is why our amendments that call on the commission to consider the opportunities for creating jobs from a better care sector in the eu 2020 strategy are so important. it is also important that we focus not only on providing research funding into new drugs to treat diseases, but also to look at simple preventative measures that everybody can take such as a change in diet and lifestyle. nutrition is increasingly being shown to be an important factor in the development of alzheimer’s and other dementias and we need to dedicate some of our resources into investigating this further. the cost of dementias in the eu was eur 130 billion in 2005 and it affected 19 million people – that is sufferers and carers. so it makes sense, both morally and economically, to ensure that we put more funds into work into this terrible disease.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 19 january 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0001/2011). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 16 by kinga göncz (h-0639/10) subject: european progress microfinance facility implementation of the european progress microfinance facility (epmf) seems to be slower than expected, a situation which could endanger its purpose and which is manifestly at odds with the speed of its adoption in march 2010. how does the commission intend to speed up the process and make sure that the epmf reaches the most vulnerable people while also reflecting the right geographical balance? what does the commission plan to do in order to get the member states to finance mentoring and training programmes, and also to ensure that interest payments are subsidised from european social fund resources, as agreed? how will the commission ensure that information about the epmf reaches the target audiences?
question 15 by zigmantas balcytis (h-0636/10) subject: additional support measures for smes under tourism policy tourism, like any other sector of the economy, is increasingly feeling the effects of world competition. in order for the european union to remain competitive in this sector, the eu has set itself the objective in the lisbon treaty of promoting the competitiveness of tourism and creating an environment favourable to business development. for this purpose the following objectives have been adopted: promoting innovation in tourism, improving the overall quality of tourism services and perfecting the professional skills of personnel. however, businesses in the tourism sector – many of which are smes – are not always able to attain these objectives through their own unaided efforts. this is due to several factors, such as limited financial resources, the lack of qualified workers and inability to respond quickly to change: hence the need for additional funding. does not the commission consider that it would be desirable to devise a coherent strategy and a detailed action plan comprising specific support measures for smes and financing arrangements which could help to overcome the difficulties encountered by the sector?
question 17 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-0625/10) subject: programmes and initiatives to modernise higher education studies have been carried out in some member states in order to determine how higher education institutions have adapted to the new labour market requirements and what prospects graduates have of finding work once they have completed their degree course. the research has shown – regrettably – that many universities are preparing specialists for a market that is already saturated. college syllabuses do not always allow for the needs of the labour market, and those who suffer most as a result are, therefore, new graduates. the commission’s work programme for 2011 refers to the modernisation of higher education and states that proposals might be put forward on the systems to be applied in order to assess, and bring transparency to, the activities of higher education institutions. that being the case, what specific programmes and model initiatives will the commission adopt with a view to modernising higher education in europe? will it draw up a special strategy to modernise higher education so as to ensure that young graduates will be able to find a job as quickly as possible? how much is it willing to invest in the future in programmes and initiatives of this kind for young people?
question 18 by radvile morkunaite-mikuleniene (h-000009/11) subject: performance of pupils in eu member states on the whole, the recently published results of the international survey of the performance of 15-year-old school pupils (pisa survey 2009) show that the eu’s competitiveness is seriously threatened, because in the field of reading competence (levels 5-6) only two eu countries are ranked in the top 10. in the field of mathematics, only three eu countries figure in the top 10, and none are in the top five. in 2020 both these young people and their younger fellow pupils will either be active on the labour market or be in the process of entering it, and it is therefore necessary to take immediate effective measures in the member states if we wish to significantly improve the quality of pupils' education. will the commission make a thorough assessment of the above survey and submit specific recommendations to the member states for procedures of proven effectiveness? are there plans for compiling a programme to disseminate such tried and tested procedures or to establish a forum to debate the challenges which need to be faced? should discussions be held with the member states to determine what measures need to be taken in order to improve their results?
question 19 by georgios papanikolaou (h-0623/10) subject: fragmented digital markets and consequences for the educational system and investments in geographically isolated regions according to the commission communication on a digital agenda for europe, europe is still a patchwork of national online markets, and europeans are prevented from enjoying the benefits of a digital single market by solvable problems such as the lack of investment in networks. as a result, the education provided in many remote – in particular mountainous and island – regions lags behind technologically and investments in specific geographical locations are also affected. will the commission say:since ict accounts for 5% of european gdp, having a market value of € 660 billion annually, while making a much greater contribution to increasing total productivity (20% directly from the ict sector and 30% from ict investments), how does it intend to address the fragmentation of digital markets? are any targeted community actions being developed to address the problem of low national investments in networks, especially for geographically isolated regions?
that was very good. thank you very much indeed!
question 23 by jim higgins (h-0621/10) subject: texting while driving - road safety a driver is 23 times more likely to be in an accident if texting. texting while driving is deemed to be responsible for thousands of road deaths annually, while the number of personal injuries rise at an alarming rate year on year. while the commission recognises the need to increase road safety and ensure proper enforcement of road safety rules, no eu-wide legislation exists which bans the practice of texting, emailing and web browsing while driving a motorised vehicle above a pre-agreed speed limit. given that the technology already exists to prevent the practice of texting, emailing and web browsing while driving, does the commission intend to introduce eu-wide legislation in order to eliminate the extremely dangerous practice of texting, emailing and web browsing while driving?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.15 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it is good to have this debate again, we had one recently. it shows our concern for the people of haiti – we are obviously more concerned about the people of haiti than the government of haiti is concerned about the people of haiti. we talk about the responsibility to protect. we talk about responsibility to protect against mass murderers and genocidal dictators – but what about the responsibility to protect against inefficient and corrupt governments who do not care about their own people? there are a million people homeless in haiti; 230 000 have died; 300 000 are injured. but only 5% of the rubble has been cleared, only 15% of houses have been reconstructed in some fashion or other. if the government of haiti does not care about its own people, then we have to use the concept of responsibility to protect. until and unless we do that, it is quite absurd for us to ask our two excellent commissioners to go on popping up and down in parliament trying to tell us what they can and cannot do, when the local capacity to do anything is so fraught and fragile. when an earthquake happens, the first thing you need to do is to clear the rubble. in order to clear the rubble, you need heavy lifting machinery, cranes, helicopters, bulldozers and the capacity to drive them. if there is nobody capable of driving this machinery, then you have to bring people in from somewhere else who know how to drive them and get them to be driven. but the left wing would oppose any member state army or air force or navy coming and helping to do that. you cannot expect people from oxfam and save the children and other such organisations to be driving tractors and lifting heavy rubble. we have to depoliticise our argument and be practical about helping these people.
madam president, i had i suppose the honour, along with ms rivasi, to lead a delegation from the acp to haiti in september. i said at the time that nothing prepared me for what i found when we were there. i want to say a number of things tonight. one is that we have got to move immediately from humanitarian aid to reconstruction. this is where the problem has not moved forward. i have heard some very fine things said here tonight, but these are not going to be possible on the ground unless there is more help. we must put more pressure on those who promised their support to deliver that support, and we must put pressure on the clinton-led reconstruction, and the united nations, to move faster. that has got to come very clearly. i listened to the commissioner and he is quite right. we do need political stability. i hope and i pray that we get that political stability, but i am not so sure that we will. i found when we were there – and i want to say this and put it on the record – that the haitian people are a very proud people. they are a wonderful people. we watched them, michèle rivasi and i, coming out of their tents at 6 o’clock in the morning shining like a shilling and with their children washed. wonderful people smiling and you wondered why they were able to smile. i would also like to put on record a tribute to the many people there from our ngos who are risking their lives, and to our commission staff to whom i paid tribute when we were there. we found them to be excellent, and we should not forget that these people risk their lives on a daily basis to help the people of haiti. we must not forget the people of haiti. we must work for the people of haiti and we must help the people of haiti. if we return to this chamber ten more times to achieve that, then we should do that and keep doing it.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i hope very much that lithuania will learn from the experience in the uk, which went through its own agonies of having a law which banned the promotion of homosexuality in schools. david cameron, then conservative leader and now prime minister, said 18 months ago that his party was wrong in its support for that 1988 law, which was subsequently repealed. indeed david cameron predicted that the first openly gay prime minister in the uk would be a tory. we will see, but that is what he predicted. so you could see a huge change in attitudes in the space of two decades. this development in attitudes, which my colleague charles tannock knows a lot more about, and this move by the centre right are reflected in a quite modest and moderate epp resolution and indeed in simon busuttil’s opening remarks. i am hopeful that the epp might be able to rally to the main resolution if most of their amendments are accepted in the vote tomorrow. the situation in the uk has been transformed to the extent that the proprietors of a small guest house were today forced to pay compensation to a gay couple whom they refused to allow to stay, in breach of the law. as the judge remarked, these proprietors were perfectly at liberty to hold or discuss their personal views on homosexuality, but what they could not do was discriminate on the basis of those views. it is talk, discussion, debate, right of assembly that would be affected by the proposed lithuanian laws. banning the promotion or propagation of homosexuality is likely to have a chilling effect on free speech and discussions, as the fundamental rights agency has pointed out. i join sophie in ’t veld in calling for an eu road map to combat homophobia and discrimination and i call on everyone across the political spectrum in this house to unite in support of the whole range of human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the eu is founded on the principle that all its citizens enjoy equal rights and freedoms. every country that wants to become a member state of the eu must commit to that principle and be signatory to the echr, not least with regard to sexual orientation. when lithuania joined the eu seven years ago, it pledged to uphold our common values of tolerance and equality. since then, the eu’s charter of fundamental rights – and i believe its articles 12 and 21 – have come into force, further guaranteeing in law citizens’ freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation at eu institutional level. as a spokesman for my party and group on human rights issues outside the union, i can say categorically that the ecr upholds and endorses principles of equality, tolerance and diversity everywhere. however, many europeans do hold traditional views with regard to homosexuality, often based on religious conviction. just as we seek to uphold the law to protect lgbt rights, so too should we seek to ensure that those who wish to express contrary, non-inflammatory, views within the bounds of the law regarding free speech should be free to do so as well. undoubtedly, lithuanian society remains by and large conservative and we should understand that. people are entitled to their own private views, but at an institutional and legal level, we cannot compromise on the principle that we are all equal. equality is a hallmark of our progressive society in europe, and i believe in fact that the legal safeguards and individual rights guaranteed by the eu acted as a kind of magnet to countries such as lithuania as they emerged from communist totalitarian domination. i would therefore urge the lithuanian authorities to reflect on the fact that the eu is committed to preventing the marginalisation, vilification and persecution of minorities that was so commonplace throughout europe for the first half of the 20th century. the commission should indeed look at this proposed draft lithuanian piece of legislation and pronounce whether or not, in its opinion, this piece of legislation is compatible with eu law – although, as simon busuttil put it, it is entirely possible that this bill will not become law, as lithuania is a democracy and is only too well aware of all the issues we are going to raise in this debate tonight.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, december’s european council at least gave us political agreement on a permanent crisis resolution mechanism but – given the reaction of the markets after christmas, with new fears over the solvency of portugal, spain, and belgium – we have to ask whether, once again, this was a case of ‘too little too late’. the proposed european stabilisation mechanism itself raised new questions on the financial markets and the existing financial stability mechanism is now regarded as insufficient. opportunities have been missed again. in december, parliament sent a clear signal to the council on eurobonds but there has been no constructive response from either the council or the commission. what we have had ever since 2008 is repeated hesitation and internal wrangling between member states and the institutions, and each time a painfully extracted response – but produced too late and constituting less than what was required. the clearest illustration of the problem is the fact that, in the face of today’s economic and monetary challenges, we simply do not have the tools we need. they are inappropriate or non-existent. our institutional decision-making processes are complex and lacking in democracy, and our economic policy strategy is divided and ineffective. the financial markets are not keeping the pressure on us just because of high debt and deficit levels, president barroso: they are also doing so because they want compensation for the risk of lending money to a project that seems incapable of reaching maturity or fulfilling its own destiny. what is holding the euro zone together today is less the dream of the founding fathers than simply the nightmare of the alternative: total collapse of the system. the abject failure to deal with the crisis is driving the european project into political deadlock. what chance is there, right now, of a stronger and more democratic set of institutions emerging from a revised treaty? intelligent calls for more political integration, like that last week from the head of the german bundesbank, really do not stand a chance. against this background i am shocked, president barroso, at the frontal attack by the commission on social europe and the interference with national labour markets, as in the case of ireland. the annual growth survey is indeed a frontal attack on long-established, socially and economically essential workers’ rights and on the very concept of collective bargaining. if this is validated by the european council, it is a strategy which, in my view, is the worst imaginable in the situation we currently face. not only will it be exposed as economic lunacy, but it will be profoundly damaging to the european project. big ideas can fail, mr president, and i really worry about this european project. as history tells us, people will deny the possibility of failure right up to the last moment. let us recognise the possibility of failure. mr farage is nodding. the failure to act, president van rompuy, president barroso, is feeding ammunition to mr farage and his allies. let us act, for heaven’s sake!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european council took important decisions about the future management of crises, but i agree with president barroso that the underlying problems remain: the need to return to fiscal discipline and the reluctance by some member states to pursue seriously economic reform. we were told that in a single currency member states would no longer be able to devalue their way out of trouble, and would instead have to reform their economies to make them more competitive. whilst a superficially attractive proposition, many of us were right not to be taken in as this has proved a false prospectus. some member states were able to find other solutions to prop up their economies artificially: through asset-price inflation, in part caused by an unsuitably low interest rate and a refusal to take corrective action by other means; or by injecting borrowed public funds on an unsustainable scale and, in some cases, to cover up the size of the resulting fiscal deficit. whilst of course we must find solutions to deal with the immediate consequences of these policies, and fiscal retrenchment is essential, we must equally importantly commit ourselves to economic reform: to extend labour market flexibility to create jobs, to open markets and remove barriers to trade, and to stimulate private investment so that we can fill the void left by reduced public sector spending. the financial and economic crisis made large-scale government intervention in the economy unavoidable - but we must not confuse the palliative with the cure. the long-term solution does not lie in bigger government. it lies in economic growth being generated by successful businesses and entrepreneurs, operating in competitive markets, which are able to deliver value to the consumer and create jobs for our citizens. that is why the europe 2020 strategy, the single market act, and the innovation union, for example, are so essential and must be given the attention they merit. the stakes are high. whilst we have been dealing with this immediate crisis, other countries around the world – some with political values that seem very different to our own – have been forging ahead. if we do not come out of this crisis on a progressive path to reform, we will be condemned to inexorable relative decline with the most profound consequences for the promotion of our values and indeed for the future of the planet.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what is the most commonly used word in association with the euro? no, it is not ‘failure’ – although it could be. it is ‘stability’, is it not? a decade ago, everybody said that once we had the euro currency, it would bring us stability. well, a decade on, i would suggest that what it has brought is chaos, discord and misery for millions, and yet the word ‘stability’ is still being used this morning. mr barroso used it, mr van rompuy used it: ‘stability’. in fact, we are patting ourselves on the back because the bond auctions in portugal went well last week, whereas the reality is that the european central bank was actually using taxpayers’ money to buy their own debt. your reassurances that all is well do not work. who do you think you are kidding, mr van rompuy? bond yields in portugal rose to nearly 7% yesterday. the public right across the union no longer supports the currency, and the battle for spain has not even begun. the model itself is failing and yet what you want is to double the size of the bail-out fund. you even want to increase the scope of the bail-out fund so that, along with the ecb, you too can go on buying yet more of your own debt. you are using the crisis as a massive power grab to take us towards fiscal union. if you succeed, then we should change the name: get rid of ‘european union’ and call it the ‘debt union’. if you do succeed, you will trap those southern countries inside an economic prison, in which people’s suffering will be untold, while the northern countries will find themselves paying, forever, a massive bill and interest rates that are far too high for their own economies. we have reached a point where it actually does not matter what any of you say. nobody believes you. the public does not support you. i hope and pray the markets break you.
mr president, i did say a decade ago that you could not have greece and germany put together in the same monetary union and that it would not work. if you go back through history, you find that when people are put together in false currency unions, when governments think they know better than the markets, governments always lose. you ask me what my solution is today. it is absolutely as plain as a pikestaff. greece, portugal and ireland do not fit inside the euro. what we should be doing, what mr van rompuy should be doing in order to give real leadership, is to be introducing a plan b and to allow these countries to go back to their own currency, to have competitive devaluations and to have a chance, because what we are doing with this policy is killing them off.
mr president, because this is a matter of such importance to the european economy as a whole, even though (thankfully) my country is not part of the euro zone, i welcome at least some of the measures that were agreed at the euro zone council, and notably the fact that euro zone countries themselves should be responsible for sorting out their own problems. i also welcome the somewhat belated recognition from the council that article 122 of the treaty is completely inappropriate for supporting the bail-out mechanism. these are not natural disasters and they were not beyond the control of the member states concerned. however, in preparing the basis for that mechanism to come into force, perhaps in 2013, we should not forget the fact that we remain very much in crisis now. the situation is still very dire in a number of member states: portugal will almost certainly face difficulties, possibly spain and possibly belgium. but what is of particularly concern to me is the effect on natural democracy in these countries. these countries are, in effect, becoming economic protectorates led by mr barroso, mr van rompuy and others. the decisions made by national electorates in these countries with regard to the spending priorities they adopt and the economic policies they pursue now have very little effect. they are under the control of brussels and they are under the control of the international financial institutions. once we get through this crisis, we really need to look at restoring democracy in these countries and restoring the will of their national electorates to be in control of their own national economic policies.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i welcome mr orbán. after the six months’ farce of the belgian presidency, it is nice to see an elected prime minister from a proper country. how i enjoyed your denouncement of communism as a dangerous ideology – and i noted the pride that you took in the fact that hungary was the first country to take up arms against the soviet union. twenty years after you won back your ability to govern yourselves democratically, you are now part of a new political union that increasingly shows similarities with that old soviet union. in fact you are going to meet lots of communists over the next six months, including the boss of the commission here, old barroso who was an advocate of chairman mao! you will see centralised economic planning and control and, above all, what you will see is the desire to impose a political union upon the peoples of europe without their consent. wake up mr orbán. look at how they are trying to bully you this morning. they are trying to tell you how to run your own country. tell them where to go. stand up and fight for democracy once again.
madam president, this is a time when we should be discussing issues of economic governance, employment rights and the environment, all high on our agenda; a time when we should be celebrating the fantastic achievement of hungary which, for the first time, has the honour of the presidency, and it saddens me that the hungarian people – who stood up against oppression and fought for so long for democracy – are now having that democracy challenged by the new media laws in hungary and the protectionist policies used to attack foreign companies, casting a shadow on what should be a proud period for the hungarian people. this is a critical time for our citizens and we must carry on with our programme of reform. however, we must also be vigilant to ensure that europe does not slip back into the dark days of the past. we must continue to oppose and highlight any forms of state censorship and protectionist policies. we must reach out to the hungarian people, but our future democracy cannot be compromised.
mr president, i rise to speak under the same rule, whichever one it was, that mr cohn-bendit just used. i would like some enlightenment, and you are far more expert in the rules of procedure than i am, sir. the only rule that i can see on personal statements is rule 151 which says that speakers must confine themselves to statements made about themselves. under what rule was mr schulz allowed to give a speech? under what rule is mr cohn-bendit allowed to give a speech in these circumstances? are all meps equal or are some meps more equal than others? (applause)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
madam president, i voted against this measure on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare because it will only mean another massive burden on the british taxpayer and on the national health service. the nhs is already used as an international health service and is subject to widespread abuse by non-british citizens at costs of hundreds of millions, if not billions, of pounds each year. the burden falls chiefly on my constituents in london. this will open up the nhs to yet more commitment to provide treatment for eu citizens who have never paid a penny in tax in britain. the supposed means of retrospectively obtaining payment from the patient’s member state will prove unenforceable. it is right that a foreign national in britain should receive emergency treatment when necessary, but no foreign nationals should be admitted to britain unless they have first taken out adequate travel and health insurance. such a policy is fair and just and is of course unenforceable while britain remains a member of the european union. this is yet one more reason, if one were needed, why we should leave.
madam president, happy new year. it is wonderful to see you in the chair. one of the things on which we agree, on the whole, across this parliament – though i know there are notable exceptions – is our belief in a functioning single market. when my constituents write to me and say ‘look, i am not getting a good service in my constituency and i would like to travel abroad to another eu member state to get better health services’, they are uncertain of their legal position. that is why i and many others will welcome this vote today on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare. i hope that what we see in those jurisdictions where patients get a poor service will be patients voting with their feet, within their rights under this directive, and moving to another member state, thereby pressurising healthcare systems to improve their service and to ensure that they meet their patients’ needs. however, we have to make sure that we facilitate the procedure under which member states can reclaim expenditure by any of their citizens who have travelled abroad or are offered services elsewhere. once we have sorted out those problems, this ought to be a directive of which we can all be proud.
it is a truism that the most prosperous societies are the freest and the freest societies are the most prosperous, and in that we should recognise the role that free trade plays. unfortunately, when it comes to international multilateral discussions on free trade, the wto doha round is stalled and, for that reason, the eu is now following the example of the us and others in signing more and more bilateral agreements. we can bring the benefits of free trade to many of the citizens of poorer countries while recognising some of the transitional problems they will have to face in adjusting to increased competition. however, at the end of the day, we should shift the focus from producer interests to consumers. many consumers, in many different developing countries, ask me why they do not have the same choice on access to goods and services that we enjoy in the west. well, one of the ways in which we can help them is through greater free trade, empowering our consumers to have greater choice. long may that continue.
madam president, for a long time the pacific has been a cinderella in the european union’s overseas development initiatives. i am very pleased to recognise now that the initiatives taken by fiji and papua new guinea on creating an economic partnership agreement will not only help us to trade more liberally with them, but will also enable them to trade intra-regionally with each other. one of the greatest things to have come out of this agreement so far is the fact that the rules of origin on fishing should finally enable the people in the pacific region to actually add value to their fishing. some of these pacific countries import fish when their seas are teeming with fish! what has been achieved now is that they could actually process the fish that they catch and should be able to add value and export that fish to the eu. this is the way forward in development and this is the way forward in reducing poverty.
i welcome the motion for a resolution voted on today on international adoption. i know of several people in my own constituency who have gone, or who are right now going, through this process and it is a delight to watch the joy in parents’ and children’s faces alike at the conclusion. to get to this point, however, is too often a long road, in many instances taking many years. it can, as the motion states, be an overly bureaucratic process and we are right as a parliament to look for ways that such bureaucracy can be reduced with a more streamlined process. paramount in all of this, however, are the needs and safety of the children, many of whom are in great need. it is right that all safeguards are in place to protect children from being placed where they may be vulnerable. but what often appears the case is that potential loving, caring parents are put through too much and simply leave the process. in this case both parent and child lose out.
madam president, from your fan club in this corner, may i thank you for your efficient chairing. there is a big issue here. international adoption is, of course, vitally important. it is important that we get it right. i very much welcome this resolution which includes, as do many of the resolutions that we pass in this house, lots of very sensible, clever and well set out words. what i really want to say here – and i have learned a lot through helping a constituent, and i am currently helping a constituent – is that it is not sufficient to lay all this out in a resolution. we in the european parliament are no shining lights when it comes to simplifying matters and making sure that citizens get their organisations to work for them. can i please ask that the good words in this resolution be acted upon; that we do actually simplify matters; that we get rid of the bureaucracy and that we effect improvement. otherwise, we will simply be trying to reinvent the wheel for europe, and will end up making the process even more difficult.
madam president, thanks to your staff and all the interpreters for your patience during this unusually long session. faced with a choice between democracy and supra-nationalism, the european union almost always opts for supra-nationalism and nowhere is this clearer than in its policy in the western balkans. we are maintaining to all intents and purposes protectorates in bosnia, in kosovo and arguably even in macedonia for the sole purpose of preventing ethnographic boundaries along the lines of what local people there would choose. it is very difficult to have a functioning democracy unless people feel enough in common one with another to accept government from each other’s hands. if you want government for and by the people, you have to have a people that everyone recognises some identity with, some allegiance to. to put it in another way, democracy needs a ‘demos’, a unit with which we identify when we use the word ‘we’. i am not saying it is simple. people can sustain multiple loyalties, populations can be interspersed, but our prejudice, other things being equal, should be towards national self-determination. if you take the ‘demos’ out of democracy, you are left only with the ‘kratos’, with the power of a system that must compel by law what it dare not ask in the name of civic patriotism.
madam president, this is very good news indeed. when we recall how far serbia has travelled in terms of the rule of law and international law, and given what serbia was some 20 years ago compared with what it is today, i think we need to commend and praise the serbian administration for the steps they have taken to make serbia a country subject to the rule of law. even with regard to its relationship with kosovo, the rule of law is now apparently paramount. in its relationship with the international criminal court, the rule of law is paramount. the reforms of the judiciary are based on international precedents and international best practice. even the independent civil service they are creating is of a high quality and they expect a correspondingly high performance from it. the copenhagen criteria are being adhered to. so, in all these different respects, a country which went through a very difficult war has now emerged as a nation that is fit and suited to be a good partner to other member states of the european union. i congratulate them on that.
madam president, those of us who have either visited haiti or saw the terrible devastation that was wrought there some time ago and looked at what happened will agree that it was absolutely right that the ngos and aid community got together and tackled the problem on the ground in terms of shelter, food, blankets and all of those sort of issues. but now let us look at the situation a year on. we look at some of the problems that are highlighted in this resolution – the fact that haitians only have shovels, pickaxes and wheelbarrows for clearing rather than the sort of large-scale equipment that they need. also the resolution deplores the serious housing crisis in haiti and talks about the need for a land register and ownership, but also calls on the commission, in the spirit of consensus, to ensure that a significant effort is made in conjunction with government to sort out the problem. the one issue that seems to be missing here is the role of the private sector. if in the longer term we are going to tackle some of the problems that we are facing, in the short term it is absolutely right that we work with ngos and aid organisations but in the long term there has to be a role for private industry.
madam president, one year after the earthquake in haiti, 5% of the rubble has been removed, a million people are homeless, 230 000 are dead, 300 000 are injured, and 15% of possible resettlement in habitable areas has taken place. why? why has only 5% of the rubble been taken away? when you have an earthquake, huge chunks of masonry fall. who can pick them up? ngos with shovels? european commissioners with buckets? no! these things can be picked up only by heavy lifting equipment and only one set of people has that: namely, the military – air forces, navies and armies. but what happened? when the air forces, the navies and the armies came to help, the left wing of this parliament and the left wing around the world screamed for them to get out of haiti. so they did! and now the whole place has been left as it was for a full year. it is politically astounding that responsibility for this situation has not been accepted, but i place ownership of the disaster firmly in the lap of the left wing of this parliament and the international community.
madam president, for decades now the member states of the european union have been making broad and benign progress towards the principles of equality of treatment before the law, of privacy and of personal freedom, so i hope that there will not be a retrograde step in any of the member states on this issue of equality on the basis of sexual orientation. i do not think there will be. a point that has been missed in this debate, as mr landsbergis has just reminded us and as mr van dalen reminded us earlier, is that this is a proposal. it is not a legislative resolution. as you will remember we went through our own debates on this in britain. we had our own arguments over section 28. i was very unusual in my party in those days in being against it. i was against it even in the very earliest days when it was still called section 27. it seemed to me utterly invidious to use the law as a mechanism to signal approval or disapproval. when we did that we put an incredibly powerful weapon into the hands of the state that was later used in the bans on pistols and hunting and so on. but the point is i am not a lithuanian legislator. we might in this house have very strong views about abortion law in poland or euthanasia law in the netherlands. these are for our constituents sensitive issues that ought to be properly determined through the national mechanisms of each member state. we should have the humility to recognise the right of democracy and parliamentary supremacy within the 27 member states.
in writing. − i voted for the removal of healthcare from the scope of the services directive some years ago, and i voted against the cross-border healthcare directive at first reading. at the time, it was apparent that there was a tendency within the commission to treat healthcare as a tradable commodity. that is not how i regard healthcare – patients should not be treated as mere paying consumers. the council has, however, vastly improved the draft legislation and moved its legal basis away from being a purely internal market issue. i accordingly voted in favour of the report and am confident that it will improve patients' rights across europe.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the basis that it has now been clarified that british patients can receive abroad only the state-paid healthcare that they would be entitled to receive under the nhs. i welcome the fact that amendments seeking to extend entitlements by giving access to ‘all methods of treatment that are sufficiently tested by international medical science’ or ‘equally effective healthcare’ were defeated. the burden on the nhs of uncontrolled use of cross-border healthcare could have been enormous.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report as it deals with some of the current problems which have gone unaddressed by governments. this not a directive telling member states how they should run their health systems as some suggest. it is a report which the uk feels able to support largely because many of the problems relating to earlier reports have been ironed out. the implication of the directive on patients’ rights is to enhance those already allowed; in particular those patients who cannot get adequate treatment within the uk may now travel elsewhere within the eu under provisions which already exist. the fact that there are likely to be very few people still doing this is because of the nature of family support of those ill; proximity here plays the most important part. costs in the uk should be met where there are reasonable grounds for treatment abroad. this is not a blank cheque for health tourism; it is establishment of current uk rights for its citizens.
in writing. − health service structures vary greatly across the eu, and i support this directive that outlines a coherent approach to funding cross-border healthcare. although cross-border healthcare affects only a small percentage of eu citizens, clarifying the existing rights of these patients in this single piece of legislation will ensure that citizens wishing to travel to another member state for medical treatment are financially protected. it is important that patients such as those living near national borders, as well as residents of smaller member states who suffer from rare diseases, are provided with financial support when seeking medical care elsewhere in the eu. the agreement will allow patients to be reimbursed for treatment they receive, up to the amount anticipated by their own national health system for similar treatment. this directive on cross-border health will also ensure that member states establish contact points to provide sufficient information to citizens wishing to travel abroad for treatment.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which accompanies the consent procedures for the voluntary partnership agreements on forest law and the trade in timber with cameroon and the congo. the resolution rightly emphasises that sufficient funding, monitoring and ngo and civil society involvement will be vital if the vpas are to achieve their aims.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the congo exports more than eur 250 million of timber and derived products, half of which go to the european union. up to now, surveys by ngos have shown that 20% of the congolese timber imported to the european market is of illegal origin, whether it is for production, sale, processing or export. the successive wars between 1993 and 1999 did nothing to improve the situation, and opened the floodgates to the scourge of corruption. there was therefore an urgent need to establish procedures to combat illegal trade in timber by more effectively analysing and overseeing the often complex trading patterns. this voluntary partnership agreement should help tackle corruption and significantly reduce the trade in illegal timber.
in writing. − my resolution, which accompanies the granting of consent to the eu-pacific states interim partnership agreement, makes it clear that parliament, while welcoming this interim epa covering only fiji and papua new guinea, believes that any move to a full epa must cover all 14 pacific island states. this is important for regional solidarity, cohesion and integration.
in writing. − i supported this interim economic partnership agreement with papua new guinea and fiji as it is important to develop strong links with exporting countries in the pacific region. despite concerns from some members i believe that we need to foster closer cooperation with these countries as this allows the eu to monitor catches of tuna and other fish that are canned on papua new guinea. this industry has also created hundreds of jobs for local people in the impoverished country.
in writing. − i am delighted that parliament gave overwhelming support to my recommendation that we consent to the eu-pacific interim epa. the interim agreement between papua new guinea, fiji and the european community was initialled on 14 december 2007. these two countries were the only ones in the pacific region to enter into the agreement, as the other members of the pacific regional grouping – because of their low levels of trade in goods with the eu – chose not to sign. fiji and papua new guinea entered the agreement mainly with the hope of protecting their sugar and tuna industries, which would have suffered greatly under the generalised system of preferences. the interim agreement covers rules of origin and market access issues. regarding rules of origin, it covers fisheries, textiles and agriculture, leading to investment and employment opportunities. regarding market access, duty-free and quota-free access to markets is to be granted, providing investment and employment opportunities. trade and development issues are to be dealt with within the wider regional framework.
in writing. − our national legal systems all have their own ways of dealing with adoption and other childcare issues. however, since issues such as people trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children have such an international dimension, eu-level action may be appropriate. we must never lose sight of the fact that the best interests of the child are paramount, and accordingly i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls for consideration to be given to the possibility of coordinating at european level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation for inter-country adoption, the processing of applications for international adoption and post-adoption services, bearing in mind that all international conventions relating to the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and to be protected.
in writing. − serbia’s moves towards eu membership are to we welcomed and will hopefully strengthen peace and prosperity in that area. parliament’s resolution calls for full respect for minority culture and languages – issues which lie at the very core of the european free alliance group.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which notes serbia’s progress on reform and the council’s recent request to the commission to prepare the opinion on serbia’s application for eu membership. nevertheless the resolution rightly points out that ‘full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia’ including delivering the last two fugitives to the hague ‘is a fundamental condition for serbia to progress on the path to eu membership’.
in writing. − i voted to give consent to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia but note that so far only 11 member states have ratified the agreement. i urge the other 16 to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. − the matias report deals with an issue of increasing importance in our ageing society. in my own country, the scottish government has made dementia a national priority, and scottish expertise is being used in research of international significance. this european initiative is to be welcomed as a means of better coordinating the eu's work against dementia.
in writing. − i voted for this own-initiative report which is parliament’s reply to the commission communication on a european initiative on alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. its key objectives are: the promotion of early diagnosis and quality of life; improvement of epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordination of existing research; support for solidarity between member states through sharing best practices; and finally respect for the rights of people living with dementia. these are all welcome proposals, as i believe a european strategy on dementia should put more emphasis on the social dimension of people living with dementia and their carers while further supporting research into prevention and early diagnosis.
in writing. − i fully support this new initiative on alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia. dementia is expected to be one of the main challenges for health care in the coming years and cooperation between countries to improve prevention, diagnosis and care is vital. the report calls for the raising of awareness surrounding this issue and the need for early recognition of the symptoms of alzheimer’s disease. this will aid the early diagnosis of cases and help improve access to treatment. as well as protecting the well-being of those suffering from dementia, it is important to raise awareness of carers, who often have to deal with emotional and financial difficulties; the development of action plans to improve the day-to-day situation for carers is another step towards improving the lives of those affected by alzheimer’s and dementia.
in writing. − this report shows the value of the work of parliament’s committee on petitions. here we are responding to a legitimate complaint by a german citizen regarding asthma inhalers. the resolution calls on the commission urgently to respond to the legitimate concerns of the petitioner – who has been experiencing this intolerable situation for 13 years and has consequently suffered considerable loss of earnings – and to take the necessary steps to enable the petitioner to assert his rights
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which commends the efforts and achievements of humanitarian organisations (the red cross, ngos and the united nations) as well as the member states, and stresses the need to communicate the non-visible effects of humanitarian work and the fact that the situation was brought under control thanks to, inter alia, the provision of care for the injured, drinking water, food and temporary shelter. however, the resolution also notes that the cholera epidemic has highlighted the near-total helplessness of the haitian state in the face of an easily preventable and treatable disease, along with the limitations of the international aid system in a country benefiting from massive humanitarian deployment (12 000 ngos); stresses that humanitarian agencies cannot and must not continue to make up for the weaknesses of the haitian state or to take its place, and that urgent action must finally be taken to ensure long-term development, in particular as regards access to healthcare and drinking water and urban renewal. it also welcomes the collective commitment made by the commission and the member states at the international donors’ conference for the reconstruction of haiti to donate a total of eur 1.2 billion, including eur 460 million in non-humanitarian aid from the commission.
in writing. − one of the earliest tasks of the re-established scottish parliament was to remove from the statute book a law prohibiting the ‘promotion’ of homosexuality in scotland’s schools. the law had been enacted by the right-wing unionist government of margaret thatcher – a government which had no legitimacy among the people of scotland. the scottish parliament saw things differently and reformed the law to make it fitter for the 21st century. it is to be hoped that the people of lithuania choose to be similarly minded.
in writing. − there can be no tolerance of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation (or indeed on any other grounds) in the european union. i therefore welcome this resolution, which takes a tough line against signs of intolerance in lithuania and makes it clear that the eu institutions will not sit back and allow lithuania to pass laws that discriminate against a section of society.
mr president, i want to begin by reminding us of the words of the universal declaration. i quote, ‘freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance’. it makes the point that protection of these freedoms is integral to, and inseparable from, the protection of all human rights. our determination to defend them should be no less. it also makes clear that we should act against all religious persecution, which is a problem for all religions and in many countries including – let us be honest – some of the countries of our own european union. the pew centre says that 70% of the world’s six billion people live in countries with strong restrictions on religious belief or practice. i personally have a strong conviction that religion can be a force for good, upheld by the work of the faith council in my own of east-of-england constituency which promotes mutual understanding, a role mirrored in the european union’s own obligations for dialogue, as outlined in our resolution. but i know that when preacher of hate terry jones, who threatened to burn the koran, said he would come to luton – also in my constituency – to stir up religious hatred, he was told he would not be welcome. tolerance, dialogue, mutual respect and understanding are, for some, parts of their faith. for others they are values in their own right. either way, they are values that we should promote and respect.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to speak on a subject that is close to my heart. as an evangelical christian, it has become apparent to me, particularly over recent years, that the expression of christian beliefs is largely deemed unacceptable in a society that wants us sanitised of any strongly held belief and where we must all believe the same or believe nothing. this attack on conviction is more aggressive towards christianity in certain quarters. this year we celebrate the 400th anniversary of the king james bible, yet today to express beliefs founded upon the contents of the bible is often deemed unlawful. we face a situation where christians are being excluded from certain professions because of their faith and hauled before courts because of their faith. in the united kingdom, equality laws are being used more as a sword than a shield, to punish expression of christian faith. this marginalisation of christianity was exemplified recently by the commission in the publication of their diary: muslim, hindu, sikh, jewish and chinese festivals were marked – yet there was nothing about christian celebrations. i have no doubt that this was no accident, no oversight and i find it deeply regrettable. i would call upon the vice-president/high representative to address this in particular in her remarks. freedom of religious expression is a fundamental right in society that should be protected and this debate is but a small recognition of the problem. we should not shy away from it just because it is christians who are persecuted … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, tolerance of another’s belief is a trait of a civilised society. the horrific events in egypt and iraq go against human rights and basic principles of freedom of thought and expression. no-one should be persecuted because of their religious beliefs. the action of curtailing christians, or any other faith, in the practice of their religion is totally unacceptable in our society. but, before we criticise, we should put our own house in order. last month, the christmas religious services were prohibited in the occupied village of rizokarpaso in cyprus. as we all know, the eu member state of the republic of cyprus is at present – and has been for 36 years – under part-occupation by turkey. the action by the occupying turkish army of entering a church, forcing the priest to terminate the service and forcing the people attending it to leave, is unacceptable. this incident is now being considered by the un. so, as we talk about the situation in countries outside the eu, and about the freedom of christians, i would like to remind this chamber that we need to sort out our own house first. we cannot accept any forms of discrimination in this chamber if we are to be credible in the wider context.
mr president, when i was first elected to this house eleven years ago, it was regarded as somewhat eccentric, verging on embarrassing – particularly even within the epp i have to say – that i frequently raised the issue of christian persecution in the islamic and communist worlds, which i regret has only got worse since then. so i am delighted today that even some of the more aggressive and anti-clerical forces in this house have woken up to the existential threat to ancient christian faith communities such as the iraqi assyrians, of which i am a patron in the uk, and the egyptian copts. last saturday, i stood outside 10 downing street in london with my coptic constituents demanding that the uk government do more to pressurise egypt and its government to protect its own citizens. today i call upon you, baroness ashton, as the high representative of the european union, to do likewise.
in writing. – the persecution of christians in islamic countries, and some non-islamic countries such as communist china, is a growing and despicable trend. one of the most recent outbursts of anti-christian violence was in alexandria at new year when 25 people were killed and 80 injured in the bombing of a church. the background to this attack has been highlighted to me by the coptic community in london and elsewhere in the uk. they estimate that there were more than 100 attacks on christians in egypt last year, in which many were killed. those responsible are motivated by fundamentalist and extremist islamist ideology. i and the uk independence party, which i represent, do not want an eu foreign policy or an eu foreign minister – currently in the form of baroness ashton. however, since the baroness is in this position, she should take account of the fact that the eu signs deals worth billions of euros with countries that are among the worst persecutors of christians. the eu should use its economic muscle to insist it will not give preferential deals or favourable treatment to those countries that tolerate the persecution of christians. this is the very least it should be expected to do.
mr president, sadly, salafist forces that are part of the global al-qa’ida franchise have found sanctuary in the sahel region, which is a vast and remote territory ideal for them for purposes of terrorist training, kidnapping unfortunate innocents – and here i extend my condolences to the families of the two french citizens recently murdered – and, of course, drug smuggling and organised crime. this poses a vast security challenge on top of the similar problems we already face in the afghanistan/pakistan border region, in somalia and in yemen. the eu must now cooperate strongly with our us allies and other democratic countries such as india and israel, as well as neighbouring moderate arab and african governments, in finding a joint strategy to defeat this menace to global security. madam high representative, operation atalanta, off somalia, has been a success. perhaps something now needs to be considered – under a nato hat, a french-led common security and defence policy mission, or whatever – to defeat this global threat, particularly in the region of mali, mauritania and niger, which are already extremely poor countries and need every bit of help we can give them.
mr president, as we debate here today it appears that alexander lukashenko is rushing through plans for an inauguration this friday, with no international guests, precisely because the international community does not recognise the belarus elections as free, fair or transparent. if it goes ahead it will be a black friday to follow what has begun to be dubbed ‘bloody sunday’, 19 december, when 700 democratic protestors were arrested, including seven of the nine presidential candidates in the elections, one of whom has had both his legs broken and another beaten by riot police until he sustained brain damage. i ask the vice-president/high representative and the eu member states to back the polish proposals for a visa ban and, as our resolution makes clear, support the principle for further targeted economic sanctions. in this context, one of the things that the european union can do is to express clear and simple demands for the release of all political prisoners, for the authorities to lift any threat of banning or restricting the belarusian helsinki committee, and for quick movement towards the organisation of new elections. for the future i agree with what has been said today both by catherine ashton and by my own group, that we need to keep the multilateral track open and we need to put an emphasis on civil society and support for it. but i do say that this is not simply a watershed moment for democracy and human rights in belarus: it is a test of europe’s own neighbourhood policy. yes, we seek clear closer cooperation and partnership with our neighbours to encourage a process of increasing congruence with those on our borders where there is a genuine mutual commitment to do so, but this will not work if there is an absence of actions when that mutual commitment is missing and things are going wrong. the pain we should worry about in this debate is not the pain intended of proposed smart sanctions by europe against belarus, but the physical pain of the beatings inflicted on people who share europe’s commitment to democracy and human rights and who need us to stand together with them in solidarity so that the long years of pain of belarus can come to an end.
mr president, the election for the presidency in belarus proved to be gravely disappointing for those of us who have been watching that country for a number of years. i met the belarusian ambassador in london, who reassured me that this time it would all be different, that it would be up to international standards and that the osce would be able to say that it was fair and free. unfortunately, the homo sovieticus instincts of lukashenko proved more enduring than anything else. his maverick behaviour was not predicted by his own senior officials, including his ambassadors. i too now join the call to release all political prisoners immediately and to re-run the elections with a long-term eu observation mission in place and with the osce’s full agreement that it meets all the standards required for it to be essentially free and fair. it is highly unlikely that minsk will agree, but we must at least try. otherwise, there must be an immediate reimposition of enhanced, targeted sanctions, freezes of mr lukashenko’s assets – if we can find them – and travel bans on him and all his senior officials.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, libya is a country where human rights are routinely abused and democracy is non-existent. colonel gaddafi has never stood for election since coming to power 41 years ago. indeed political parties are banned. gaddafi is the fidel castro of africa. he tries to portray himself as a benevolent father of his own people, even claiming that he has no formal role in the state hierarchy. we in my country, the uk, know him differently as a previous sponsor of terrorism, in particular the lockerbie bombing of 1988. to polish up his international image he has, to his credit i suppose, compensated grieving families, but in truth the maverick gadaffi would be totally ostracised by the west were it not for libya’s prodigious reserves of oil and gas. this gives gadaffi leverage over the eu and in particular he has sought to divide the council by courting the leadership of certain member states. nevertheless, on pragmatic grounds i accept the need for cordial trading and diplomatic relations between the eu and libya under a framework agreement. but i do fear that all we are really doing is consolidating gaddafi’s power, which in due course inevitably will pass to one of his sons in a dynastic succession akin to that of north korea.
mr president, back in 2007, president sarkozy denied any link between the release of five bulgarian nurses from libya and the libyan order for french missiles worth eur 240 million. these arms were sold to a country held responsible for the lockerbie bombing and the supply of terrorist weapons. yet even gaddafi’s son suggested that there was a link between the two deals. it was arms for prisoners. in 2004, the eu removed the arms embargo against libya in exchange for migration controls. that was arms for borders. now, the london times reports that baroness ashton suddenly wants to drop the eu arms embargo against china, which was imposed because of the massacre in tiananmen square, saying it is ‘a major impediment to developing stronger eu-china cooperation’. actually, i believe it is a major impediment to saving the euro, is it not? just like the libyan deal, it seems the eu is so desperate now to save the euro that it is prepared to risk our collective security, as only the chinese have enough money to rescue the euro. this is arms for bonds. chinese foreign exchange reserves are usd 2.9 trillion. it has already bought greek, spanish and portuguese bonds. however, china is also the country that bans the word ‘democracy’ from its search engines and executes thousands every year. so, i ask in all sincerity, just how low will the eu go to save the euro?
in writing. – i welcome the opening of negotiations between the eu and libya, as a step to develop a new relationship for the eu in the mediterranean region and in africa. i also consider cooperation with libya useful in addressing issues such as security and stability, migration, public health, development, trade, climate change, energy and culture. however, i urge the council and the commission to press libya to ratify and implement the geneva convention on refugees of 1951 and its 1967 protocol, including full cooperation with the unhcr, so as to guarantee adequate protection and rights for migrants, and adopt asylum legislation that recognises refugees’ status and rights accordingly, notably the prohibition of collective expulsion and the principle of ‘non-refoulement’. i also remind the council and the commission of their obligations to ensure full compliance of the eu’s external policy with the charter of fundamental rights, particularly its article 19, which prohibits collective expulsion and grants the principle of ‘non-refoulement’. i urge the council and the commission to request that the libyan authorities sign a memorandum of understanding granting the unhcr a legal presence in the country, with a mandate to exercise its full range of access and protection activities.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this debate is a result of the implementation of the common immigration and asylum system enshrined in the lisbon treaty. member states lose even more control of their own destinies while having to pay the – as yet unknown – cost for the privilege. britain’s asylum system is already a mess, with thousands upon thousands of cases pending and applicants simply lost and gone to ground. the whole system is essentially a racket for those not eligible for legitimate immigration. i realise that i am wasting my breath in speaking about this here, since most of you could not care less about preserving the democratic powers of the nation state. most of you are entranced in a grotesque fantasy world of endless eu integration, like characters in some kind of painting by hieronymus bosch, but the british people will one day hold to account the treasonous and treacherous politicians in britain who made this possible by denying them a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
mr president, as my colleague mrs guillaume said, this is a crucial moment in the development of the european asylum system. we have had some real progress in some parts of the package – including, during the belgian presidency, my own report on beneficiaries of international protection – but clearly these are just the side elements of the asylum package. it must be stressed today that the procedures recast forms the backbone of the package. it is therefore essential that we move forward on this recast in view of the rapidly approaching 2012 deadline for the creation of the common european asylum system. one of the recurring criticisms by member states of the proposed recast of procedures is that it will lead to an unnecessary financial burden on them, but there is a significant body of evidence – and i pay tribute to what the commission said on the solihull project in the united kingdom – that front-loading asylum procedures leads to better decisions at first instance; quality decision-making is a key element which we must not miss. we therefore want more information from member states backing up their claims. however, i would like to stress that this debate should not just be about costs. as mr de jong said, the procedures recast is about harmonising practices and raising standards across the eu. it is clear that standards vary too much between member states and the current legal framework needs revising. we know the commission is going to come forward with a revised recast proposal in the coming months in view of the opposition of the council. parliament should put forward a strong position on this matter to ensure that the commission does not water down its original proposal. the right to legal assistance, a guarantee of personal interview, limitations on the use of accelerated procedures; all of these safeguards are essential to a fair and effective asylum system. this goal of achieving a common european asylum system is not a goal that parliament set; we all remember in 1999 in tampere that it was the council that set these goals; they reset these goals at the hague and at stockholm so let us revise our history and understand that we depend on the council to unblock the system and we will work cooperatively with the hungarian presidency to try and maintain the momentum of the belgian presidency. this is what so many of the members across the party divide want to see; we may want to see different outcomes but we will cooperate, and let us hope in the hungarian presidency we can see some genuine progress.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate my colleague derk jan eppink on his comprehensive and well negotiated report, covering so many topics. fundamentally, competition policy should be at the heart of the european single market and solid principles of competition should be built into all eu legislation. competition should create a stronger marketplace for eu citizens and allow the eu to be more competitive on a global basis. in the latest wave of financial services legislation, there is a danger that this principle is being lost. we must use every opportunity to create more competition in markets dominated by large market participants and create a more vibrant marketplace. in the derivatives legislation currently being negotiated, we can ensure that we do not create or reinforce monopolies by supporting open access to ccps and the like, and by ensuring the availability of important data streams to all players. in the upcoming review of mifid, we must remember its original purpose of opening up europe’s equity markets to competition and, after its expansion to include new asset classes, we must ensure that the competitive principles are upheld, since a combination of these has actually significantly driven down trading fees for investors in the equities over the last three years. when we consider reforms for auditors, credit rating agencies and other financial services providers, we can consider where the barriers to market entry lie, and work to break them down. i believe that standing up for competition in key industries is the way that we will generate the true growth potential of the eu and reinvigorate our economies in this ever-changing world.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it is not often that i have any good words to say about gordon brown, but he did act swiftly, decisively and effectively to deal with the banking crisis in the uk, even though i must point out that it was largely made worse by his disastrous tenure as minister of finance/chancellor of the exchequer for ten years. however, the bank rescue in the uk was less swift than it might have been because of the consequences of eu competition policy. my distinguished colleague, professor tim congdon, has written a pamphlet on this. the fact is that these matters should be handled at the national level and not at the level of the commission. the commission simply does not know what it is doing and should stay well clear. in the last 15 seconds i have, i must address the singularly depressing speech made by mr lamberts when he talked about tax competition. tax competition is why we have lower taxes. what he was advocating was an eu-wide fiscal policy, which would result in eu-wide higher taxes. that is what it is, and i would ask mr lamberts and his colleagues to please call it that next time.
(opening words inaudible as microphone switched off) ...the person who asked the question has the right to respond. you have invented new rules – your own rules – as a chairman. you are completely incorrect, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague derk jan eppink for his excellent report, but particularly to make a comment about the energy market, which the commission is going to look at this year. as other members have pointed out, energy supply and pricing can vary greatly between different member states. in the region i represent, nearly a quarter of households have no access to mainstream gas, and the vast majority of those are reliant on domestic heating oil. in the one month between november and december, pricing in that market rose by over 50%. consumers are concerned (and very cold) – they are concerned about cartel pricing, and there are allegations of this. it is right that this should be looked at by the domestic regulators first, but i am hearing similar concerns from other eu member states. so i would like to ask the commissioner: when you are looking at the energy markets this year, please do not forget those who live in very rurally isolated areas.
mr president, first let me congratulate mr eppink on the detailed work he has done on this report. hopefully he will continue to play a progressive role in this area. i welcome this report on the state of play of competition policy for 2009. however, there are still elements of competition in the eu that need to be strengthened and clarified. i would encourage more cooperation between the commission and the european parliament in this field. that is the only way we will be able to maintain public confidence in the decisions that have been taken. furthermore, it is imperative that the european parliament be kept up to date on the action that is taken by the commission, with a particular focus on sme policy. i look forward to the reports and the investigations that have been highlighted in this report – at the last count, 11 reports, six investigations into different fields and the re-establishment of dg competition’s fiscal state aid unit. in particular, i strongly welcome the reiterated request for the incorporation of the basis for calculating fines, which we have already discussed. i think this is absolutely vital. by the way, it was very interesting to hear earlier from the earl of dartmouth, speaking as he was as an aristocrat, about competition policy. as everybody knows, aristocrats in the united kingdom have a huge focus on land concentration. perhaps we ought to ask the competition authorities to look into that and see just how the aristocrats have been looking after their land across the european union for all this time.
mr president, i should like to thank mr gahler for his very careful and detailed report, and indeed for his willingness to compromise. however, i fear that we have produced the proverbial christmas tree – albeit it post-christmas – of wishes, and of wishes that obscure the main political point. our previous debates on arctic policy in this chamber provoked, indeed, the commission communication. we insisted very clearly then on the protection of the fragile arctic environment in a coherent way – on protection of this last wilderness, which is now an environmental flashpoint. there seems to have been a very subtle shift – an undertow – in our thinking, towards security: security of energy supply and security to use resources. this has been confirmed by the agreement this weekend between rosneft and bp – bp of deepwater. as the commission and other commentators have persistently pointed out, there are many, many regulatory gaps in the arctic. the eu’s environmental footprint there is not light. the regulation is piecemeal and unfocused. the field is open to multinational companies. we could do better. we previously said we wanted to do better. we wanted a more coherent approach. i wonder what has changed, and i think our citizens might ask what has changed.
mr president, i too congratulate michael gahler on a well-balanced, excellent report. despite the challenging nature of the environment in the arctic, the rising price of oil has stimulated international interest in drilling in that zone. we all know that oil was first produced in 1968 from prudhoe bay on the alaskan north slope, but many areas of the arctic have not yet been explored. a 2008 us geological survey estimated that areas north of the arctic circle have 90 billion barrels of undiscovered oil – technically recoverable oil – and 44 billion barrels of natural gas liquids. now this represents between 13% and 20% of all undiscovered oil in the world. needless to say, the recovery of so much oil will have a dramatic impact on the arctic and may cause ecological disasters on a global scale, so i think we have to ask ourselves whether it is wise to embark on such a project at a time of determined efforts to sever our dependency on fossil fuels and to aim ultimately for a co2-free society.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in discussing the black sea area, one word leaps to mind, and that is ‘caution’. all must tread carefully here. the black sea area is russia’s backyard. it has its fleet anchored in the crimea at sebastopol, close to the bloody battlefields of the crimean war. we have seen the unfortunate conflict in georgia, where there was fault on both sides. had georgia been in nato, the consequences could have been disastrous. whilst i support georgian independence, it is unwise to goad the russian bear in its own lair. then there is turkey which the eu is playing with by offering membership despite the reality that members such as france will veto an application. turkey has just 4% of its landmass within europe. it should not be in the eu. there are real dangers in leading turkey on. disappointment could drive turkey into the hands of islamic extremists. finally, underlying all of this is the fact that the black sea is the hub for vital caspian oil and gas. tread carefully indeed.
mr president, i am delighted that this house is cognisant of white russia’s slide into autocracy. the regime in belarus represents a system of government that this continent ought to have put behind itself 20 years ago. nonetheless, i hope that this motion might prompt among some colleagues a measure of self-analysis. look at it from the point of view of a former soviet apparatchik analysing the european union. i put it to you that he might find a few things that would make him feel rather at home. he would see that we are governed not by an elected president or an elected system, but by a 27-member politburo called the european commission, he would look and see this rubber-stamp parliament that would make him feel a little nostalgic, he would see the series of five-year plans by which we administer our affairs, he would even see the fleet of special limousines and even special reserve shops for employees of the system and members of the nomenklatura. above all, he would see what engels called ‘the doctrine of false consciousness’ – that when people vote, they do not understand their true interest and it is for us to impose a better system on them. i am reminded of that terrifying closing scene of orwell’s ‘animal farm’ where the animals look from man to pig and pig to man and find that they cannot tell which is which.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly condemns all acts of violence against christians and other religious communities, as well as all kinds of discrimination and intolerance based on religion and belief, against religious people, apostates and non-believers. the resolution stresses that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right, and it expresses concern about the exodus of christians from various countries, especially middle eastern countries, in recent years. i urge the authorities of states with alarmingly high levels of attacks against religious denominations to take responsibility for ensuring normal and public religious practices for all religious denominations; to step up their efforts to provide reliable and efficient protection for the religious denominations in their countries; and to ensure the personal safety and physical integrity of members of religious denominations there, thereby complying with the obligations to which they have already committed themselves in the international arena.
in writing. − the situation in belarus is intolerable and i join my colleagues in condemning the use of brutal force by the police and kgb services against the protesters on election day, in particular over a brutal attack on mr niakliayeu, among many cases of severe violation of basic democratic principles, such as freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as well as of human rights, and express my concern at the attempts of the belarusian authorities to take into state custody danil sannikov, 3-year-old son of the presidential candidate andrei sannikov, and irina khalip, an investigative journalist, who have both been jailed since the 19 december election. i join the call for the commission to support with all financial and political means the efforts of the belarusian civil society to promote democracy and oppose the regime.
in writing. − i voted for this report and particularly want to draw attention to paragraph 105 which calls on the commission to seek the completion of the single railway market. a call i strongly endorse.
in writing. − i fully support the calls in this resolution for stronger rules in the area of competition policy. compensation for individuals and firms where infringements of eu anti-trust law has taken place will go a long way to dissuading companies and individuals from breaching these laws. this proposal is well balanced and calls for a wide range of instruments to be developed to deter people from breaching the rules, including individual liability, transparency and accountability of firms, the right of defence and due process. i am glad that the proposal has not gone as far as the us where the level of fines has led to excessive damages being awarded, resulting in some job losses.
in writing. − i welcome the suggestion of an eu policy for the high north, but any such policy must be conscious of the need to protect the fragile environment of the arctic and underline the importance of overall stability and peace in the region. it should stress that the eu should pursue policies that ensure that measures to address environmental concerns take into account the interests of the inhabitants of the arctic region, including its indigenous peoples, in protecting and developing the region. it should also stress the similarity in approach, analysis and priorities between the commission communication and policy documents in the arctic states and the need to engage in policies that respect the interest in sustainable management and use of the land-based and marine, non-renewable and renewable natural resources of the arctic region, which in turn provide important resources for europe and are a major source of income to the inhabitants of the region.
in writing. − mr. president, i welcome this motion and the parallel report currently with the fisheries committee. both reports refer to the ‘black sea synergy’. in the context of south-east europe, the definition of synergy is one where it represents the ability of a group to outperform even its best individual member. apparently there is a consensus amongst some in this place that the best individual member of the black sea synergy is the eu. i would caution against this belief, certainly with regard to fisheries. the common fisheries policy has failed. i would say to my colleagues from the black sea region, learn from the mistakes of the cfp, examine the consequences the present regime has had on the small scale fisheries of the north-east atlantic and ask is this what we want for the black sea? the black sea strategy must be based on the uniqueness of the area. as we have seen, ideas that fit one part of europe will not work in another part.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which stresses that the main objective pursued by the eu and the member states in the eu strategy for the black sea region should be to establish an area of peace, democracy, prosperity and stability, founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and providing for eu energy security, and considers that good governance, the rule of law, promotion of respect of human rights, migration management, energy, transport, the environment, and economic and social development should constitute priority actions.
author. − mr president, i think all of us would want to express our condolences to the family and friends of salmaan taseer, the governor of punjab put in place by the government of pakistan, and we are remembering here today his clear support for aasia bibi – a position he knew to be controversial and indeed dangerous. we are rightly distressed by his murder and the reaction to it by part of the population of pakistan but we should not forget, as well, that many have mourned him and have done that in public as a public act. it is an act we should be commending, like, for example, the action taken by the media regulator against certain media with regard to their coverage of the alleged murderer. however, as we know, the blasphemy law in pakistan puts the lives of pakistani citizens at risk: muslim, christian and others alike, as many speakers have said this afternoon. we are aware that pakistan is a new democracy, that it is facing conflict on its borders, and that it has faced the disaster of the recent flood, as well as the earthquake only this week. we know that the government is struggling, but we also recognise that it needs our support in terms of developing democracy within pakistan, not least in the political battle against extremism and for universal human rights, and it is our role as democratic parliamentarians to support all those who are working for positive change and to give them the voice that others would deny them. we are also asking for action by the government of pakistan, not least to remove the reservations on the international covenant on civil and political rights – which they ratified with a large number of reservations – and we urged this in our recent delegation visit to pakistan. we want them, as well, to continue the efforts to change the blasphemy law because this is a law that is more abused than properly used.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, to make a personal statement, i spent a lot of time with salmaan taseer when we were both in our twenties. indeed, we were friends. salmaan wrote to me at parliament to invite me to stay as his personal guest at the governor’s house in the punjab. that letter arrived after governor taseer’s murder. salmaan was a man of charm, charisma and high intelligence. he was also very capable and effective. he represented the best tradition of pakistan – a devout muslim but not in any way fundamentalist. as has been said, salmaan strongly supported a christian lady who had been sentenced under blasphemy laws. salmaan paid for that support with his life. it was a political assassination. pakistan is not only a large, developing country. it is a country with over 20 nuclear warheads. i came here today first and foremost to express my profound sorrow, but i must also express my concern – all our concern – for pakistan.
mr president, when governor salmaan taseer was buried, it seemed to me as though any hope for a moderate, stable pakistan was buried with him. this disgusting murder of a dedicated and enlightened public servant was sparked by his advocacy of reforming pakistan’s draconian blasphemy laws. in particular, he championed the case of a christian woman who is currently awaiting execution – would you believe it – having been convicted of defaming islam. we in this parliament have long called for the reform or scrapping of these wretched blasphemy laws, which are invoked frequently against pakistan’s religious minorities. this assassination underlines the growing radicalisation of pakistani society. jinnah, were he alive today, would be shocked. few mainstream politicians dared to follow salmaan taseer’s lead and suggest a reform of the blasphemy laws and even fewer will be able to do so now. they will be afraid. instead, the violent radicals and fanatics – including, i am afraid, leading jurists – praised the assassin and called for his release. they seem to be winning the battle of ideas in pakistan. as a result, domestic terrorism is flourishing, and we saw this phenomenon again last week. can the eu now sustain a strategic relationship with a country so unstable and particularly given our generous concessions over trade and aid?
mr president, the murder of governor salmaan taseer is indeed a brutal and tragic crime. he was killed, apparently, by an islamic extremist because he advocated changes to the blasphemy law. the murder is a tragedy for pakistan, but what does it mean for the west? instead of doing all we can to combat islamic fundamentalism taking deeper root in europe, we placate and appease it. sharia law is now recognised in some tribunals in the uk. there are inner city areas where the de facto writ of sharia law runs. europe, having produced the renaissance, the enlightenment, the industrial revolution and the wonders of the modern scientific age, now lies supine before a 6th century ideology. governments are frightened to confront it because of political correctness and the economic power of some islamic countries. we must support the moderate and progressive elements in countries like pakistan, but above all we must assert that sharia law and islamic fundamentalism have no place in a modern, western, liberal democracy.
mr president, i challenge your decision to allocate catch-the-eye simply on the basis of who had not spoken in the pakistan debate. this is an entirely different debate on a different issue. so far, it has been a debate between lusophones and italophones. that is great, but perhaps other countries might want to have an opinion on this well, as well as other delegations from other political groups.
author. − mr president, it was my intention today to compare the islamic republic of iran to nazi germany but i have to say that i think in many ways it can be even worse. the mullahs have hanged 65 people so far this year. ten were hanged yesterday: first they were heavily fined and had their homes confiscated and then each was mercilessly flogged before being dragged to the gallows. eighty-seven people have been hanged in the past four weeks. ahmadinejad is a holocaust denier and a hater of the jews; he says he wants to wipe israel off the map and he is now building nuclear weapons that will enable him to do so. he and khamenei preside over the ruthless suppression of the citizens of iran, with hangings, torture, stoning to death, amputations and floggings all commonplace, and the execution of children, and even pregnant women, routine. two prisoners in mashhad had their hands amputated this week; two others have been sentenced to amputation and these verdicts will be carried out soon. anyone who tries to expose this evil is immediately targeted. nasrin sotoudeh is a case in point: a courageous human rights lawyer who has defended many of the innocent people unjustly sentenced and executed by this fascist regime. her outrageous sentence of 11 years’ imprisonment for doing her job is an insult to humanity. the real criminals are the tyrants in tehran and they will be held to account. they believe that their critics in the west are part of an international conspiracy to topple their regime. well, i for one would sign up to that project today. evil must never be allowed to prevail, and the sooner we can see freedom, democracy, humanity and women’s rights restored to iran the better it will be for the whole world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we should never forget in this house that the freedom to debate and dissent that we so much enjoy in europe is scarce and non-existent in many parts of the world. nowhere is this more obvious than in iran. yet again in this house we find ourselves discussing the appalling human rights situation in that islamic republic. as a lawyer, nasrin sotoudeh has helped many opposition supporters who were detained and harassed following the rigged presidential election 18 months ago. she has also represented minors on death row, truly a heroic job in a country that executes children with alacrity. she was arrested in september last year on charges of spreading propaganda and conspiring to harm state security. now she has been sentenced to 11 years in prison and banned from practising law for 20 years. she should be released immediately and unconditionally. i call upon the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to make that point. parliament and commission have been resolute in highlighting the human rights abuses of the brutal – almost disgusting – ahmadinejad regime. it is time that the council put the eu’s common values ahead of member states’ individual commercial interests in that country.
mr president, i would like to change paragraph 14 to the following: ‘reiterates its call to the government of pakistan to carry out a thoroughgoing review of the blasphemy laws and their current application, including the mandatory death penalty or life imprisonment prescribed by section 295 c of the pakistan penal code for anyone found guilty of blasphemy against the prophet mohammed, with a view to implementing amendments as suggested by the federal minister for minority affairs’.
mr president, we have just had two roll-call votes. this morning before lunch we had only two roll-call votes. it is the ruling in this parliament that you have to vote over 50% of the time, and 50% of the roll-call votes, to ensure that you get a full day’s pay. is this correct in this case, or what is the situation?
mr president, i hope that the house and you will allow me this short indulgence to congratulate you on the statement you have made on behalf of david kato who was murdered in uganda. he was, as you said, a human rights defender and he defended the rights of lesbian, gay and bisexual people. i just wanted to say that here in this house we have passed a motion on what is happening in uganda. it is vital that we support ugandan civil society and remember that david was a giant who stood above those who preached hatred and discrimination, and we should remember his family at this sad time.
mr president, this friday’s summit is supposed to be strategically focused on energy and innovation. i hope the heads of government will not be too distracted by the situation in egypt. i also hope that the necessary discussions on energy infrastructure and cross-border cooperation – the supply side of energy – will not distract from discussion about the demand side of energy, which is equally important. the 20% 2020 energy efficiency target is a very long way off track. what we need to hear from our leaders on friday is a bold commitment to take immediate steps to get back on course. making the 20% target binding without delay would be the simplest way of doing that. otherwise we will merely waste a great deal of this energy supply that we are so expensively putting in place. that is not good economics, especially in a time of crisis.
mr president, one of the issues to be discussed at the european council is improving the framework conditions – whatever they might be – for research and innovation in the european union. there is of course a distinction between invention and innovation, and between these two and patent applications. however, if you were to look for the geographical source of any or all of these, you would not see an even geographical spread throughout the world. you would find a disproportionate number from certain countries of the world with direct or historical ties to europe. now why should this be? could the reason provide a clue to the framework conditions being sought so earnestly by the innovation union? whatever could be the explanation? well, when we have dismissed climate, something in the water, habitual diet and nappy training in a cold climate, whatever else could remain? well i am afraid i am stuck for an answer. but whatever it is, we must make sure that we do not discard it out of ignorance.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, france, of course, nurtured the ayatollah khomeini and flew him back to tehran. but, on another issue, egypt has been a republic since 1956 but mubarak is only the country’s third president. in tunisia, ben ali was only the second leader since independence 53 years ago. when the political landscape offers such little hope of change, inevitably frustrations boil over – as we now see with the hurricane of change blowing across the region. my group, the ecr group, calls for a genuinely democratic and peaceful transition in egypt. today we see a worrying trend towards violence. it is hard to see how mubarak can credibly play a role in that transition other than by stepping down. tunisia also remains in ferment, and the longer that lasts the greater the danger that islamists will seize the political initiative. tunisia may have been authoritarian and corrupt, but it was profoundly secular and pro-western; we must remember that. indeed this is also a danger in egypt, where the islamist muslim brotherhood is seeking to fill the political vacuum as we speak. the radicalisation of egyptian politics would be a disaster for that country and for neighbouring israel. but it could also have grave implications for the operation of the suez canal. the eu’s diplomatic efforts in tunisia and egypt must be focused entirely on ensuring stability and order, and resisting those who would wish to spread violence and fear as we see today. to build a liberal democracy in these countries with no such traditions, the eu, the usa and our political think-tanks in europe must now place significant resources behind moderate democratic politicians and new parties who must be committed to democratic pluralism and free and fair elections and, unlike the muslim brotherhood, be prepared to relinquish power if defeated at the ballot box. this is a huge challenge and of course we may now be witnessing an historic ‘fall of the berlin wall moment’ in the muslim world. there are already good democratic role models in muslim-majority countries, such as indonesia, turkey and bangladesh, for egypt and tunisia to emulate. hopefully, in future the choice in the muslim world will not be between secular tyranny and islamist theocracies but instead enduring democracy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i think i made it very clear in my speech that i do not want a secular tyrant or an islamist theocrat running any of the countries in our neighbourhood. i would, of course, like a liberal democrat prepared to stand for free and fair elections. i think that the economic situation and high levels of unemployment in tunisia and egypt are a serious problem and we must do all we can to address that. but that is not the issue here. the issue basically now is to see an orderly and peaceful transition in these countries and not a breakdown in law and order. we want to see stability, peace and, of course, democracy in our neighbourhood.
mr president, foremost in my mind at the moment, as i prepare for the ad hoc delegation to tunisia tomorrow – which i am delighted to be part of – is the well-being of the tunisian people and the need for all of us to remember how important it is and why we respect their cultural values and their identity, as we help them build a new future based on the rule of law and democratic ideals. people expect change and they expect aid without strings. i am so glad that mr cohn-bendit has followed up the point i made in the delegation committee this morning about exactly what has happened to the eu money over all these years. the eas representative there said that it was spent on reforms. what reforms? if there were adequate reforms, the people would not have revolted in the way they did. can we have some truthful answers? we need to push the provisional government to investigate where that money went and make sure that any eu money in the future is rightfully spent.
mr president, i think the issue of great urgency today is the state of play in egypt. in 2005 i was the chairman of a small observer mission for the elections there. we were asked to go for the first round and then for the second round, but the first round was so chaotic and impossibly badly run, so corrupt, that we decided not to return for the second round. egypt is a country where for 30 or so years a dictator, in the person of mubarak, has assumed absolute power in a particularly brutal, tyrannous and arbitrary rule and, while we all recognise the extraordinary evolution on the streets of egypt, we also recognise in mubarak’s reaction somebody who feels he has got support, not only in egypt but elsewhere. now, we recognise too that the european union does not have the sixth fleet. we are only capable of projecting moral power, so when baroness ashton spoke, very softly, at the beginning of this debate, she unfortunately did not carry a big stick as well. so we have to speak softly, yes, but also with one voice and i think the problem for europe at the moment is that it is not speaking with one voice at the level of cathy ashton and other leaders. this has been referred to earlier – the prime ministers of britain, france and germany issuing separate statements. let us speak together. let us get it absolutely straight where we stand – in support of democracy and human rights, not only in europe but around the world, and especially at this time in the mediterranean.
mr president, the question i wanted to ask the honourable member was: how can democracy flourish in societies where there are no institutions and histories of democratic tradition? democracy does not just pop up in an unfertile field. we keep talking about creating democratic states without having worked on creating the democratic institutions upon which democracy flowers.
madam president, the great danger for egypt and the other north african countries is, of course, that the overthrow of their governments will not usher in western-style liberal democracy but rather islamic fundamentalist rule and a new dark age, such as we saw in iran. nevertheless, there is a certain satisfaction to be derived from the prospect of oppressed peoples overthrowing their undemocratic and unrepresentative governments. all governments, even tyrannies, ultimately derive their power from the consent of the people that they govern. and you can repress people for so long and so much, but there is always the possibility that they will rebel. now there is a parallel here with britain, where successive governments of all political colours have consistently betrayed our country and surrendered our rights of democratic self-determination to the european union. under magna carta, the english have the right of lawful rebellion. i wonder just how far they will have to be pushed before they are driven out on the streets like the egyptians.
madam president, we should all applaud the fall or impending fall of repressive regimes, but perhaps only when we know – or are pretty certain about – who or what is likely to replace them. tunisia, like iraq and egypt, was a politically repressive regime even by middle eastern standards, but it was also, by middle eastern standards, a secular, even socially liberal, one. there is a danger that a socially liberal autocracy might be replaced by a socially repressive autocracy or even a socially repressive democracy. those who expect a cosy and civilised transfer of power in all or any of these countries might think again. if we should see civil wars, atrocities and the destruction of the economies of these countries, we might give good advice and our populations might send aid, but i hope that we do not regard it as our job to send our troops there to be killed. it is certainly not our job to rescue the populations of these countries and bring them into europe.
madam president, the particular point i want to make is that on too many occasions we have seen the sanctuary of our free societies in the west abused by extremists who eventually return to their home countries, hostile to our values and bearing revolution. yesterday was the 32nd anniversary of the return to iran from paris of ayatollah khomeini. we know where that has led. rachid ghannouchi, who has advocated the annihilation of the state of israel, has just returned to tunisia after two decades in london. he regards the leadership of the palestinian authority as illegitimate; he supports hamas. hamas, of course, is an offshoot of the muslim brotherhood, the one well organised political group in egypt. such organisations build their power base by responding to the everyday needs of the people and they then consolidate their power through terror. we must take stronger measures to prevent the incubation of extremism in our own capitals and do more to reach out to legitimate civil society in places like egypt and tunisia with well focused assistance, including well controlled financial assistance.
madam president, this moment has been a long time coming. it is being led by both the old and by those who have known nothing other than mubarak in egypt. our response has been to say that egypt should not be destabilised any further than it is; that the people of egypt be delivered a government of their choice through their free will. well, that is right, but it is not enough. and then from the floor of the house today i hear warnings of an islamic tsunami that is waiting to come and destroy us all. all you do by putting forward those arguments, i am afraid, is argue for a totalitarian regime thinly disguised by a very thin layer of democracy, and you do not place any value on those people who have paid with blood and paid with their lives both in tunisia and egypt. they paid with their lives fighting for the freedom of their countrymen and they will not value your freedom any less. those on the streets, despite being very large in number, are a vocal minority who actually represent an even larger silent majority. high representative, this is not a time for limp wrists. have strength in your stride, send a clear message: mubarak must go now.
madam president, together with everyone else in this debate, i share deep concern for the peaceful protestors in egypt, particularly in the light of the further violence of today. i want to record in this debate concern about the continued closure of al jazeera, which europe has been silent on so far, and the arrest of six al jazeera journalists, as well as the need for us to engage with the it companies, internet service and mobile phone providers, including vodafone from my own country, on the choices that they made in egypt during the course of the last weeks. i also wish that eu leaders had said before what they are saying today. president sarkozy said in december 2007: ‘i’d like to tell president mubarak how much i appreciate his experience, wisdom and moderate vision. … president mubarak is for us a friend.’ today he calls for a transition. or there is alistair burt, uk foreign office minister, saying he wanted stability in egypt more than anything. william hague, declining to say how soon he would like to see elections taking place, is now calling for transition. finally, i agree with baroness ashton, our high representative. europe is good at transitional justice, at elections and democracy building, at civil society development. whatever the wrongs and the baggage of the past, she and we should see this as a crisis in the region but an opportunity for europe to devote our resources to building respect for democracy and human rights. these are not values that we are imposing from europe. they are demanded on the streets of tunis and cairo and it is our duty to listen.
(asking mr howitt a blue-card question under rule 149(8)) you raised some comments by president sarkozy and mr burt. i do not know whether you were in the chamber earlier when a colleague referred to the statements by mr blair concerning mr mubarak. could you confirm whether you agree or disagree with mr blair?
madam president, i reiterate what i said in my speech, namely that there is much baggage from the past, which all of us should reflect on and learn lessons from. but that should not stop us, as a european union, from engaging with egypt and the arab world to support democracy and human rights, and i expect my colleague, despite her different views on europe, to share this view with me.
i have received six motions for resolutionssee minutes.tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote on the motions for resolutions on tunisia will take place on thursday. the vote on the motions for resolutions on egypt will take place at the february ii part-session. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the referendum on the future status of southern sudan.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have never doubted that sudan’s partition is the only way to guarantee peace, justice and development for south sudan. i am therefore delighted that southerners voted with such overwhelming determination in favour of a sovereign, independent future. the fact that more than 99% of voters favoured secession is a damning indictment on khartoum and president bashir’s decades of efforts to conquer and subjugate the christian and animist south to hard-line islamism and sharia law. south sudan should now be the eu’s number one humanitarian development priority. the referendum is not the end of the process but the start of it. south sudan needs to be sure of the eu’s total and unswerving commitment, and one of the things i call upon the high representative to ensure is that all edf money should now be transferred to the new state immediately, even before they ratify cotonou. i also call on all 27 eu member states to immediately recognise this new african nation on 9 july as decreed in the cpa. without it, all the progress that south sudan has made in recent years will be in vain. another war would have unimaginable consequences for africa as a whole. finally, i hope that steps are being taken to ensure that the personnel and financial resources allocated to the eu delegation in juba are adequate. i also trust that the high representative will be able to visit south sudan shortly. i am also excited, particularly as a british citizen, that the new government in juba is committed to recognising the independence of the republic of somaliland – the former british protectorate of somaliland – and i am convinced also that many other african and european states will shortly follow thereafter. i would also like to recognise in the gallery dr francis g. nazario, who is head of the south sudanese mission to the eu and shortly will become its ambassador. perhaps you could stand up, dr nazario and the south sudanese delegation, who are also sitting up there. (applause for dr nazario and the south sudanese delegation)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr welcomes the opportunity to discuss these issues in the chamber this evening. i would like to make it clear that our group believes that all three candidates for chairing the esa, as presented to the committee on economic and monetary affairs yesterday, are fully qualified and competent to fulfil the important roles involved. any comments i make this evening are purely about the process that has been followed to get to this point. i would ask, therefore, that future selection processes aim to recruit candidates from the broadest possible pool of talent in order to ensure independent thought and a new diversity in the senior management of such authorities. to that end, salary scales need to be appropriate to the expected seniority of those roles. unnecessary age restrictions, or any other criteria outside technical skills and competence, should be avoided at all costs. we can do a little better than we have done this time in terms of the process and the transparency that could be applied with respect to parliament. i hope that note is taken of this in the future.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i believe there is no need for these agency supervisor posts because i believe there is no need for the agencies themselves. is creating another level of supervision called esma going to represent an improvement compared with existing supervisory authorities? i believe that, by doing this, we are only going to cause confusion about who is responsible for what. will the supervisory authority produce regulations suitable for the world’s largest financial district? i doubt it. i think, instead, that the pet theories of the anti-market crowd will be adopted and forced upon the city of london. the problems caused by financial activity in recent years were due to rule books being either torn up or ignored by those whose job it was to enforce them. there is no guarantee that these authorities will do anything better. moreover, we have been presented with only one candidate for each post – a totally undemocratic exercise. of course, it is the same that was used to appoint the president of the commission, the rest of the commissioners and the high representative. i could go on with a long list. i encourage you all to vote against these or any other candidates.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this banana is the stuff of war – an eu-inspired trade war with america that has lasted 16 years and has now been lost spectacularly. the eu has now been fined nearly usd 200 million by the world trade organisation and been forced to drop its illegal tariffs – all because of the protectionism that lies at the heart of the eu, in this case protection of french colonies. may i say that this very banana which i bought today in the european parliament supermarket is illegal! it does not conform to eu rules in terms of the length, the width and the straightness of bananas. what is going on? with such barmy protectionism and such silly rules as this, one has to ask: is the european union crazy or has it merely gone bananas?
madam president, i want to concentrate on fair trade bananas. the importance of supporting banana producers from the poorest caribbean nations is absolutely pivotal. although eur 200 million has been designated for african and caribbean banana exporting countries, we need to look at this matter. anyone witnessing how people who work in this sector are treated, particularly by the large multinational corporations, would be quite disgusted. that is why fair trade bananas are so important – certainly to smaller producers, but also to ensure the better treatment of working people. bananas are scotland’s favourite fruit and, as such, my constituents want to know that what they are eating has been produced to the highest standards and with the utmost care. i would encourage colleagues to make an effort only to buy fair trade bananas and, if they see that they are not stocked in a supermarket, to complain. as we have seen tonight, the politics of the trade in bananas is contentious. we must act to help the most vulnerable workers and the most vulnerable nations in the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is always good to see you in the chair when we are discussing issues about the plights of others. i know you share our concerns. i want to associate myself with the words of mr goerens and, indeed, take the commission a little further. it is quite right that tb is a significant global health concern and, as we know, is the second leading cause of death from infectious diseases worldwide. as we heard, 1.6 million to 2 million people die annually from the disease. eu funding has been instrumental in generating a robust pipeline of innovative tb vaccine candidates, as the commission said enabling their early stage development by phase 1 and phase 2a clinical trials. unfortunately – and this is the problem – currently funding mechanisms, including the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership, allocate very limited funding to the very costly late-stage clinical trials – phase 2b and phase 3 – which are vital to demonstrate vaccine safety. we have vaccines, but it is vital to demonstrate the safety and the efficacy necessary for licensure. i now welcome the fact that the commission has said that it is bringing in additional funding, but will the rules for any new edctp budget provisions permit funding to be directed to the development and building of clinical trial sites, including epidemiology studies? is the commission considering the introduction of competitive funding mechanisms for the late-stage clinical development of innovative new vaccines that address the neglected diseases, such as tb?
madam president, only last week in my constituency of northern ireland, dissident republican terrorists left two viable bombs in the antrim road area of north belfast. it is really only by the grace of god that today we are not talking about multiple fatalities. hundreds of people were removed from their homes while the security forces dealt with the danger foisted upon that community. the target of this foiled attack was police officers in what is the latest in a series of attempts to murder serving officers of the police service of northern ireland. these attacks do not make the news programmes in the united kingdom, let alone across europe, yet they act as a reminder that, while huge progress has been made in moving northern ireland forward, we still have those who want to take us back. before christmas president barroso met with the northern ireland first minister, peter robinson, and reiterated his commitment to the barroso task force. i welcome that work and i also welcome the initial work carried out within this house in relation to peace funding.
madam president, 14 february, st valentine’s day, will mark the first ever european epilepsy day. st valentine himself is reputed to have been a sufferer from epilepsy. currently six million europeans suffer from epilepsy. in scotland this is around 39 000 people, yet just 20 000 scots have been diagnosed and control their condition with medication. this means that 19 000 people live on a daily basis with the fear of a recurring seizure. extrapolated across the eu this means millions of people also live with this fear. on 14 february we must raise awareness of epilepsy. we must also try to get those who have the condition properly diagnosed and call on member states to have more neurologists who have a specialism in epilepsy. on 15 february there will be a number of events in the parliament and i encourage colleagues to take part. many of your constituents will be present. i would also like to take the opportunity to welcome joanne hill, a specialist nurse in epilepsy, and fiona nicholson, the service manager of a scottish epilepsy centre.
madam president, has it ever occurred to mr ponga that the eu taxpayer, and particularly the british taxpayer, might prefer the eur 190 million to be frozen indefinitely?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this issue has technical considerations and it also has human, poverty considerations. in this joint debate i would first like to tell the council that parliament is here to monitor and check, and look with openness and transparency and accountability at the way we spend our taxpayers’ money in terms of international development. if the council cannot recognise that, and cannot recognise that delegated acts should go through parliament’s internal procedures so that it can avail itself of the right of scrutiny, then what the heck are we doing here? why are we here if we are not allowed to be accountable to our voters, constituents and taxpayers over the money that they give us in good faith to spend, through the commission, on international development? secondly, on the issue of bananas, in which parliament’s considerations should also be taken into account, the european taxpayer has lost on both counts. we had a freer trade agreement which has now gone ‘phut’, and what we now have to do is to indemnify and compensate those banana-producing countries again.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is a credible sounding justification for each one of the four financing instruments being presented to parliament today. however, taken together, their collective aim is to advance and promote the political and foreign policy agenda of the european commission. the commissioner made that very clear earlier, with his customary precision and clarity, for which i must thank him. we all know by now who is going to be paying for this: the hard-pressed taxpayer and obviously – and as usual disproportionately – the british taxpayer. the exact cost of these financing instruments is still unknown, despite the best efforts of my colleagues yesterday and first thing this morning. the commission is, once again, being profligate and irresponsible with other people’s money and this is why we will not be supporting either proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i mentioned both the eu taxpayer and the british taxpayer in my speech. i was, however, elected by people in britain, not by people anywhere else, so i regard my prime responsibility as being to represent the british taxpayer. my heart also goes out to hard-pressed eu taxpayers in other countries – not least in your own country, austria, a contributing nation – whose money is also being wasted in the construction of these vain and fragile empires.
madam president, i want to place on record my support for what other colleagues have said on the issue of parliamentary scrutiny of the instruments, and of the instrument for democracy and human rights in particular. i want to thank the commission for the structured cooperation we have. by nature, human rights defenders are at risk and there needs to be a degree of privacy. let us make sure that this cooperation continues in the future. one criticism of the projects would be that we run very high quality projects, but they are pepper-potted around the world and have not been sufficiently integrated into the other programmes. the setting up of the external action service gives us a chance to remedy this. we should make sure that we do so. the concern that some of the programmes that are currently prepared by legally-qualified people may not be in the future is something that we need to deal with in order to maintain that quality in the future as well. finally, with what is happening in egypt and elsewhere in the arab world at the moment, we know there will be an increasing call for finance for democracy-building and election monitoring in the future. we have insisted on the fixed percentage within the regulation, otherwise it would crowd out other human rights projects. however, we may need more money, and when it comes to the new financial perspective we must not go back to the old argument that we should get rid of this regulation. it is needed today more than ever. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i wish to thank the previous speaker for permitting me to ask him a question. i have great respect for mr howitt’s knowledge on human rights and the work he has done in the past. my question is this. how can we take our presumptions about equality and fairness and justice, born of a deep christian or humanist tradition, in europe, and expect other cultures with other religions or beliefs, or with a lack of beliefs, to understand exactly what we are saying, without appearing to be ramming neo-colonial ideas down their throats? how can we do that?
madam president, answering that question in 30 seconds is a big challenge. the answer – as he and this whole chamber should know – is that freedom of thought and religion is a fundamental human right for all nations, for all religions, for all countries and for all people.
madam president, a young woman in my constituency has this morning, as every weekday morning at this time, just returned home from walking her two young children to school. jenny used to drive them there but she can no longer afford to put petrol in the car for anything other than her twice-weekly trip to the cheapest supermarket in her part of manchester. this morning, as every morning, jenny is hungry because she has a choice for breakfast: either she eats or her two little girls eat. there is not enough bread and jam for all of them. meanwhile, here on planet eu, meps discuss tweaks to a financial instrument that involves the spending of eur 1.1 billion of taxpayers’ money on promoting democracy and human rights, mainly in the third world. most of those tweaks further reduce the oversight the nation states have, as the commission burns its way through vast amounts of british taxpayers’ money. what a waste and what hypocrisy to bang on about women’s rights in africa when thousands of jennies cannot even feed their kids properly.
madam president, i just wanted to ask my honourable colleague and friend, mr mitchell, whether he agrees with me that in 2005 parliament gave up 14 areas of codecision on these financing instruments. what we are actually trying to do now is to get some restitution, because we not only lost our ability to look at what is going on with the commission, but we also lost the accountability process and the transparency process, so i want to ask mr mitchell… (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would also like to express my thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur for the work that has been done on this. the aims of the directive are clear, and my group is happy to support them in principle. weee is the fastest growing waste stream in europe and we simply have to have an adequate directive to deal with it. there are of course many details that still need to be dealt with here. firstly, i want to mention the costs. recycling, re-use and ultimate disposal are not cheap and not free. the ‘producer-pays’ principle is paramount. we must not impose a system that increases the costs for the general taxpayer, particularly in this era of fiscal consolidation. secondly, i want to emphasise the need to maintain flexibility for member states. yes, i totally agree: let us set challenging targets, but let us not confuse targets with compliance. let us not be over-prescriptive in directing how member states get there. echoing ms van brempt, i also want to mention needs in relation to small weee. this is an area that has been sadly neglected. i think that the proposed ambitious targets will ensure that a larger percentage of smaller weee will be collected in the future. i look forward to that.
madam president, i should like to point out to the commissioner that, where i live, if i want to recycle any of my electrical goods, i have got to take them to a local council site myself. there are about four or five in my city and they are only open at certain times. if i want to recycle cardboard, paper, plastics or glass, these are collected at the kerbside, from my home. if i want to recycle batteries, i can take my old batteries to any retailer. if we want to see the targets increased for waste electrical goods, we have to have more of that kind of collection. we have got to make it easier for the public to dispose of their electrical goods, and particularly small electrical goods. when the target of four tonnes per person was set, it was totally inadequate. it was met too easily just by people recycling their fridges or their big electrical goods. we need a much more ambitious target in order to drive the market and to make sure that companies are set up which can strip the useful elements out of these goods. last week, commissioner, you launched your resource efficiency strategy. this directive is part and parcel of that. it should be the norm that every item of electrical waste is collected and most of it recycled, not the exception. unfortunately, in europe, today it is the exception. tomorrow it has got to be the rule. i am afraid we will never succeed in your long-term strategy of resource efficiency – tackling the problems karl-heinz has raised about the lack of raw materials – unless this directive works.
madam president, [opening words lost as microphone switched off]… a recast directive but quite a few of us here worked on the original cast, and it is a good opportunity to close some of the loopholes and put in place the directive we always thought merited our attention. but because we want to ensure that we are properly recycling electrical goods, we want to close the loophole which is leading to so many electrical goods ending up in developing nations, being taken apart by children on bonfires and dumps. to those manufacturers and producers who are writing to us now asking us not to support one or other amendment that aims to close these loopholes, i would say: let them come up with their suggestions. it is their products which are ending up in these dumps and they have to come forward with proposals to make sure it does not happen. this also gives us a chance to finish some uncompleted business. printer companies have a business model based on selling their printers relatively cheaply and getting their customers locked into a contract to keep buying expensive printer cartridges. they have a constant war with the remanufacturers, who take these printer cartridges and refill them with ink and sell them back to you for a fraction of the price. nearly 10 years ago we discovered that the printer manufacturers had hit upon a new means of advancing that war by using electronics to stop the printer cartridges being recycled: you fill them with ink and they stop working. so we inserted into the legislation article 4 designed to ensure that you cannot place on the market products which cannot be recycled. but the printer companies found a way around that. they lobbied one government after another and they said that printer cartridges can be regarded as consumables, not as waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). so we are left now with a position where printer cartridges in some member states are regarded as weee, in some others not. this is the chance to close that loophole to make sure that we have more competition on the market and to encourage proper recycling. i look for the support of colleagues for those amendments.
madam president, mobile phones, phone chargers, play stations, cameras, saunas, thermometers, refrigerators, freezers, toasters, kettles, microwaves, irons, air fresheners, clocks, watches, electric toothbrushes, dvd players, vacuum cleaners, children’s toys, video games, medical devices, televisions, remote controls, calculators, heaters, tumble dryers and washing machines. well, that is just to name a few, because all of these appliances and many more will undoubtedly rise in price as a result of this waste directive. and to think that the european union is prepared to pile this legislation on just at a time when we are in the depths of a recession and when people are struggling to make ends meet! i therefore encourage everyone in this chamber to show sympathy with the hardworking taxpayers and with small-to-medium-sized businesses and put this prospective law in the waste bin. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, mr nuttall tells us that the requirement to recycle electrical waste puts up the price of products. can he then also tell us who – if not the producer – should pay for the disposal of those products? why is he so against council taxpayers, ratepayers and local governments across europe, in his own country and elsewhere, who have to bear the burden of dealing with such waste, which he says the producer should not have to pay for?
madam president, i too enjoy my jousts with mr davies. it seems that we have these little jousts on every speech that i give. he knows as well as i do where the cost will lie – it will end up with the taxpayer having to fund this. at the moment, we are in the depths of a recession the like of which we have not seen since the 1930s. i am standing up for hardworking taxpayers. secondly, the real point here is that this should be done at national level by people – by politicians – who are accountable to the electorate, not by a commission that meets in secret and is accountable to nobody. that is the key. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, first of all i will repeat what i just said. we all know where the cost ends up – where it always does. it does not necessarily have to say it in the directive, because it never does. you never tell people that you are going to put up tax. you never tell people that you are going to hit them in the pocket. in my country, for example, it costs us gbp 50 million a day to be members of this club. the key to all of this is – and i go back to exactly what i said to mr davies – decisions should be made at nation-state level by politicians who are accountable to the electorate. the electorate of my country, great britain, cannot remove commissioners. that is fundamentally undemocratic and wrong.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i would very much like to propose mrs andreasen for one of these roles. (applause and cries of ‘hear, hear’ from the efd group)
perhaps you are available for the job?
author. − mr president, i am sorry to take up members’ time. resolutions were tabled because the committee was not satisfied with the institutional procedures and wished to obtain assurances from the commission and the presidency. in debate yesterday, and in written statements and letters to me, suitable assurances have been given and these will all be published. the majority recommendation of the committee now is to approve all the candidates, with which i personally agree. that means voting against all the resolutions. there were four areas in which we sought assurances. concerning the independence of the authorities, both the commission and the presidency have reaffirmed respect for the provisions of independence of the authorities, their chairs, executives and board members. concerning board representation, the commission is being vigilant concerning the designations by the heads of the supervisory authority to the boards of supervisors, as required by the regulation, and the presidency supported the commission statement. concerning adequate budgetary resources, the commission has recognised the need to provide adequate budgetary and human resources to the authorities, with which the presidency has agreed and, further, stated the importance of fulfilment by member states of their obligations. concerning the appointment procedure, we have all discovered we are bound by regulations in ways that all sides realise is inappropriate, such as the retirement age criteria projected to the end of the term of office and also on the gender issue. these will be addressed in the review, with which the commission and the presidency also both agree. the committee continues to insist on a role in the ongoing and future shortlisting procedures for all positions, such as that of executive director. for democratic purposes, members wish to be able to express a preference on individual candidates, and so the resolutions have been kept on the agenda for voting. however, as i say, if you want to approve the appointments, with which i concur, then you should vote against the resolutions.
we now come to a rather perverse procedure, as mrs bowles has indicated. we are going to vote now, but you vote in favour to oppose the candidate and you vote against to confirm the candidate. i do not understand it, but there it is.
can i just agree with you that, as i said, this is a rather perverse procedure. mrs bowles, can you help the house? mr sonik has quite reasonably asked for the names of the successful candidates for these positions. are you able to give the house the names of these people who have been appointed, either now or in a few minutes’ time?
author. − mr president, i think it would be better if we circulated them later. (objections)
i have read the names of the signatories of the amendments. it would be very unfair to some italian colleagues if we were to do that.
i know the motion for a resolution is on a sensitive subject but it has been duly tabled. amendments have also been tabled and we will continue voting on the amendments one by one. there are very few to come.
that concludes the vote.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
as you know, mr swoboda has a working group examining our proceedings in plenary and i will bring your point to his attention. i would also point out that you can always put an explanation of vote in writing if you wish.
that is a very serious point that you are making and the bureau will look into it.
mr president, the trade dispute involving bananas has been one of the longest-running and perhaps the most difficult in the history of the wto and it is a dispute where the european union has been squarely and unequivocally in the wrong. its policy has been to favour producers in some former colonies at the expense of the principles of free trade which are, of course, enshrined notionally in the treaty of rome. this policy has been bad for everyone. it has been bad for consumers in europe, who have had to pay much higher prices, it has been bad for exporters, it has been bad for international harmony and the community of nations, and it has been bad for the people it was notionally designed to protect. the former british and french dependencies have now become dependencies in the fullest sense, tied to an artificial and unproductive export when they might have diversified their economies and integrated more widely into the world economy. i want to say one more thing about this which has not come up in any of the debates. the eu has disgracefully been applying pressure on banana producers to form political and economic unions around themselves, in mimicry of the eu model, which is truly none of our business. the whole point of free trade is to swap on the basis of differences, not to sell each other bananas and indeed, for that matter, not to have an artificial customs union among the industrialised economies of europe.
i think you have broken new ground. that is the first time i have seen someone reading a speech from an ipad.
mr president, driving around the beautiful downlands and copses of my south east constituency, i have noticed little roadside cairns made up of white goods and other eliminated electrical items. those little cairns are a visible monument to the law of unintended consequences. a directive intended to encourage recycling has ended up encouraging fly-tipping. as a consequence it has vitiated the traditional notion of property rights. our normal understanding of ownership is that if you sell me something and i buy it from you, it is then my responsibility. there is no residual obligation on you to recycle. in fact, the free market will generally recycle these things and there are these wonderful people who will do it for nothing, called scrap dealers. sometimes they will even pay you a fee for doing it. none of this, however, is of any consolation to those of my constituents who are wondering how to get rid of their white goods. a constituent of mine contacted me last week and asked how to get rid of their fridge. i was reduced to suggesting that she give it to her mother-in-law.
we do not think that mr ben ali has ever been invited to the european parliament. but, anyway, he will not come now – mercifully.
as you know, the european parliament is sending a delegation chaired by mr salafranca to tunisia today and they will be reporting back next week.
mr president, events in tunisia serve as a warning to all undemocratic governments – not just in the arab world but throughout the whole world. if they do not provide a mechanism in their constitution for people to express their discontent, then they face revolution and the violence that this entails. it is not for the eu to dictate the dots and commas of any nation’s constitution. however, we should encourage transition to constitutional democracy and promote an open economy, investment and economic growth, because it is economic growth – trading with the rest of the world – that will bring jobs and relieve poverty, which is actually the root cause of much of the dissatisfaction in the arab world.
mr president, i like to think that i have always been a champion of my south east constituents. one of the ways in which i try and champion their interests – as taxpayers – is by preventing the squandering of the money they have worked for on useless, inefficient or corrupt eu agencies. that argument loses none of its force when the useless agency happens to be situated in my constituency, as is the case with the european police college. i do not think there is any doubt about the mismanagement of its accounts. i do not think anyone in this house is arguing that, financially, it is a worthwhile or efficient organisation. there is a wider issue of why we need a european police agency at all. a monopoly on the right of coercive force is perhaps the definitive attribute of statehood and states around the world have reached extremely sophisticated, extremely efficient accords on police collaboration without needing these eu agencies to tell them what to do. we have worked very well without the eu in the county of hampshire, where the epc is situated. it predates most of the member states and it will be fine with or without this eu agency sited on its territory.
mr president, i voted against closing the accounts of the european police college. i did so by way of a small protest against the way the eu handles taxpayers’ money. we waste far too much of it, and we waste too much on useless bodies like the european police college. we do not need it. we should save the taxpayer some money and scrap it.
mr president, you have heard me many times in this chamber fighting my lonely and gruelling war of attrition against the establishment of these new eu supervisory agencies in the field of financial services. my contention throughout has been that they were a solution to a non-existent problem. none of the people you can blame for the financial crisis are covered by the remit of these agencies. this is not, in my view, a proportionate, considered response to an identified problem, but an ideological move to have more european integration for its own sake. any doubt as to who was right was surely removed by the farce that we saw a few moments ago, when the president asked the house who the three candidates that we had just approved were, and not a single mep was able to reply. so why did we so overwhelmingly vote to appoint these nominees? i suspect it was because what commissioner barnier said in recommending them – they had been chosen ‘because of their commitment to europe’. so that is what it is about. it has nothing to do with improving financial services and everything to do with extending brussels control. i will finish by echoing lord dartmouth’s call: if – as was suggested today – we need to have female candidates in some of these roles, i can think of no one better than the whistle-blower who brought down the previous commission, my south-east of england colleague ms andreasen.
mr president, i wish that we did not have a european supervisory authority, but we do. given that we do, we should appoint the best people to lead them. what we saw earlier today was indeed a farce, where colleagues who had interviewed the individuals and deemed them to be competent nonetheless wanted to flex their muscles and protest that they had not been consulted enough. that was why we had the vote today. it was posturing at its worst and it does this parliament no good at all.
in writing. − the uk independence party feels that trade, not aid, is the best way to support developing countries’ economies.
in writing. − the uk independence party fully supports the cause of genuine human rights. however, we note that the eu’s interpretation of human rights is a flawed one. from votes for prisoners to refusing to deport terrorist hate preachers, all in the name of ‘human rights’, the eu has damaged britain, and now wishes to spread this throughout the world, using our taxpayers’ money. this is why we cannot support this measure.
in writing. − the commission proposal includes no less than four separate financing instruments. they are aimed at different market sectors. for each one of them there are justifications that sound credible. however, taken together they are all aimed at the same thing. the intention is to advance and promote the political and foreign policy agenda of the european commission. even trade commissioner mr de gucht in the debate admits ‘...they do support a whole range of eu policy objectives including trade, and allow us to remain relevant as foreign policy actors’. and we know by now who is paying for all of this. the hard-pressed taxpayer and obviously and as usual the british taxpayer – disproportionately. the cost of all this, despite our best efforts, is unknown. once again the commission are being profligate and irresponsible with other people’s money. that is why we did not support either proposal and abstained.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and for amendments 7 and 11. amendment 7 draws attention to the fact that some latin american countries gained additional benefits after the wto agreement through negotiating free trade agreements and that these agreements further weaken the position of acp countries. amendment 11 draws attention to human rights concerns in columbia and honduras.
in writing. − i voted to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas with 11 latin american countries and the united states. by giving our assent, the european parliament today put an end to the long-lasting ‘banana war’. i welcome the fact that, to reduce the impact of the agreement on the poorest acp countries whose basic economy is based on bananas, the agreement foresees a financial instrument to help them modernise and diversify production.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because the eu has been accused of violating trade rules by importing bananas from africa, caribbean and pacific countries without any levy while imposing heavy taxes on other countries. therefore i welcome the end of this trade war.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas. this is necessary as a result of the vote to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas agreed at the wto.
in writing. − i welcome this report which introduces new targets to stop toxic chemicals from discarded electrical items seeping into the environment.
in writing. − electronic and electrical equipment is the fastest growing kind of waste. presently one third of it is collected. therefore i voted in favour of the revision of this directive because i welcome the new target to collect and treat 85% of this waste by 2016.
in writing. − i fully support the decision to update the waste electronic and electrical equipment (weee) directive. the hazardous substances often produced by waste from electrical and electronic equipment can cause huge health and environment risks. by ensuring that waste is recycled and reused, the directive will improve the environmental performance of producers and distributors. new targets for recycling, reusing and collecting waste include an 85% collection rate for member states. the updated directive will also harmonise member states’ reporting and regulation measures, in order to simplify administrative procedures and cut costs for companies. i am certain that approving the amendments to this directive has the potential to produce health and environmental benefits and will contribute to the objectives of the eu’s resource efficiency agenda. however, in light of the cuts facing local authorities, it is important that councils wanting to introduce kerbside collection are supported financially by producers.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on tunisia. i believe it to be vital that parliament shows itself unequivocally on the side of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in tunisia and elsewhere in the middle east.
in writing. − i fully support calls for an increase in funding and alternative means of funding for tb programmes. as the chair of this parliament’s working group on innovation, access to medicine and poverty-related diseases, i think it is vital to focus our efforts on research and innovation if we are to meet the millennium development goals. global tb levels are still unacceptably high and i welcome new means of funding the tuberculosis vaccine initiative for a large-scale vaccination campaign.
in writing. − i voted for the closure of the cepol accounts for which i had refused discharge last year because this is the normal procedure that should happen every year immediately there is clarity from the european court of auditors’ report that there is no need for further adjustment, independent of the fact that discharge has or has not been granted. given the irregularities observed, cepol should be closed down.
in writing. − i voted to close the accounts for the european police college as i believe it is important to draw a line under the discharge procedure for 2008. by not granting discharge, meps sent a strong message to the management of all eu agencies that the parliament will not tolerate shoddy accounting, or spurious spending. meps now need to turn our attention towards the discharge procedure for 2009, which is underway in the committee on budgetary control, and introducing changes to ensure stronger accounting procedures are put in place. there can be no repeat of the shortcomings that were highlighted in the court of auditors report on the 2008 accounts. i welcome the positive steps that have been taken by cepol’s new director, ferenc bánfi, and hope that the cooperation between the committee on budgetary control and the college continues, and big steps are taken to ensure the college is run efficiently and in line with all financial rules.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the chair of the european banking authority, not because i found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because i object in principle to the creation of this new authority. we are told that it is necessary to prevent future economic and financial crises occurring. in fact it adds another level of bureaucracy to existing supervision. there will be confusion about who is responsible for what. the rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the city of london and will contribute to the loss of jobs in britain. furthermore, the process is not transparent with parliament being presented with only one candidate and, to top it all, the final vote is secret.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the chair of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, not because i found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because i object in principle to the creation of this new authority. we are told that it is necessary to prevent future economic and financial crises occurring. in fact it adds another level of bureaucracy to existing supervision. there will be confusion about who is responsible for what. the rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the city of london and will contribute to the loss of jobs in britain. furthermore, the process is not transparent with parliament being presented with only one candidate and, to top it all, the final vote is secret.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the chair of the european securities and markets authority, not because i found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because i object in principle to the creation of this new authority. we are told that it is necessary to prevent future economic and financial crises occurring. in fact it adds another level of bureaucracy to existing supervision. there will be confusion about who is responsible for what. the rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the city of london and will contribute to the loss of jobs in britain. furthermore, the process is not transparent with parliament being presented with only one candidate and, to top it all, the final vote is secret.
in writing. − the 2008 financial crisis clearly showed the need for european supervisory authorities to coordinate the regulation and supervision of the finance sector in the european union. with today’s vote to accept the three heads of these new authorities we are giving the green light for them to get down to work. we have also seen over the last two years that parts of the financial services industry are intent on resisting necessary new rules and regulations. during the hearing process i have therefore asked the candidates to commit to the highest standards of transparency and open government. to maintain public confidence and trust in these new authorities, they must be able to do their job in an independent, fair and objective way. it is essential to ensure that these fledgling institutions are not bullied into weakening or undermining key rules to reform the finance sector. i therefore welcome the commitment of the candidates to work to the highest principles of transparency, including disclosing the outcome of regulatory meetings with lobbyists and industry representatives.
in writing. − i voted to approve the appointment of the chairs of the eba, eiopa and esma as they demonstrated during their hearings that they were competent and knowledgeable of the issues related to the tasks they would face. i also believe that it is unfortunate that there is no female candidate for a post at this level and hope that the candidates for the position of executive director would reflect a better choice. it is also unfortunate that two political groups, the greens and the alde (some, not all), managed to direct their disapproval at these chairs for issues unrelated to the tasks they will face as chairs. consequently, one can only imagine that there are other issues behind their choices which demonstrate the lack of sensitivities to this european project. after all, we demand independence for the actions to be undertaken by these european supervisory authorities and yet they contradict that independence by disqualifying the results of that independent choice with an unwarranted rejection vote.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which highlights not just the environmental consequences but the importance of tackling corruption. i join those who call on the italian authorities to fully implement eu law.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 13.00)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this oral question is not about the guilt or innocence of mr assange in the rape accusations against him in sweden. it is about the procedures of the european arrest warrant and whether it is being misused for political purposes. the european arrest warrant allows any european citizen to be judicially surrendered without a court being allowed to consider the prima facie evidence against them and with almost no power to refuse surrender. the european arrest warrant has tremendous potential for abuse and for use against political dissidents. is the assange case about the crimes allegedly committed in sweden or is it about the desire of the united states of america to extradite him from a compliant european country? discussing the procedures is key to understanding this case and deciding if the european arrest warrant is being misused and abused. we need to have a full debate in this house from all sides of the political spectrum. please vote in favour.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this is an important debate tonight with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, to demonstrate that the services directive – into which we put so much effort in the last parliament under evelyne gebhardt’s leadership, with many colleagues, including myself, being involved – is absolutely indispensable to the creation of future growth and jobs in the european economy. i say to mr canfin and others that there has been a huge amount of investment in time and resources, and indeed in systems like the points of single contact, in order to generate those jobs and growth, but they now have to come. the issue with this report is the fact that we have done a huge amount of work already, but we now need to see the pay-off from that work. one of the issues that i know the commissioner is very much aware of, and which is reflected in some of the ideas in the single market act which we will be bringing back to parliament in two months’ time, is the fact that member states need to start using and deploying these new instruments and encouraging businesses to use them. colleagues will remember that this is targeted very much at small- and medium-sized enterprises. they are the ones, as all the work in the previous commission showed, which were discouraged by the administrative barriers they encountered at all stages from going to set up and deliver services within the european union, which of course is a right they have under the treaties. we now need to really make that work. part of that is to overcome all the ingrained suspicion and problems that they have had, and to make it clear that what we have achieved here is probably the biggest single set of deregulatory measures in opening up markets that has ever happened as a result of one single directive – we have heard about the thousands of measures that have been changed – and similarly the first major investment by member states in promoting the single market to businesses. that is what the points of single contact are all about. they are actually about providing the simple information that a business needs if it wants to go and deliver a service in another country – that essential research before they start. this is just the first of many reports and many investigations that my committee will continue to make, because this is a long-term project. we are just at the beginning, of something absolutely crucial for the future of the european economy.
mr president, the services directive has been consistently opposed by my party. this non-legislative report emphasises that this directive has the potential for further integration of the eu economy. the report recognises that the directive’s impact on the economy, businesses and citizens cannot be evaluated until it has been transposed in all member states. the report therefore calls for closer, thorough monitoring by the commission, with regular implementation reports. it envisages appropriate funds in its draft budget for 2012 to launch an eu-wide awareness campaign, plus training schemes for officials. the proposals contained in this report outline more regulation, more supervision and more expenditure at a time when the peoples of europe are being asked to accept more austerity. this is just more unreality, more bureaucracy and more dismay.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european commission has already tried to create an eu patent law, but failed in june when this was rejected by the council, which failed to achieve a unanimous vote. the commission, however, wants to forge ahead with this. the fact that it does so is just another example of eu empire-building. the proposals are unnecessary and will impose yet more administrative and cost burdens on innovative companies. so exactly who is in favour of this? it is being driven forward by 12 countries that include the united kingdom. it should surprise no-one that the british coalition government is a prime mover in this, just as successive british governments have been prime movers in most eu projects, while pretending to do the opposite. if the conservative party had ever thought to patent lies, deceit and hypocrisy, they would have made a fortune in royalties and would perhaps be in a position to pay off the national debt!
mr president, when i first came to this parliament in 1999, the single european patent was on the agenda. i remember working with klaus-heiner lehne on mrs palacio’s report. i am pleased that we are starting to make some serious progress on it. we cannot underestimate the importance of this proposal to the competitiveness of the european economy. we are currently debating a very imaginative new plan from mrs geoghegan-quinn called the innovation union. this continent – the european union – needs to be more inventive. we need to create more inventions and exploit them more. it is absolutely indispensable that we have a competitive patent system. this enhanced cooperation move is an imaginative one to move the debate forward. i hope our spanish and italian colleagues will come into it, but we cannot leave this waiting any longer, because the whole world is after the innovation market.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this debate on permitted levels of radioactivity in food is timely, because this april will be the 25th anniversary of the chernobyl disaster. many of us will remember how anxious members of the public were at that time and just how long the radioactive contamination lasted in certain places, such as the english lake district, where soil conditions and heavy rainfall caused the ground to be contaminated for many years. so it is very important to have in place a system which will give the greatest possible reassurance to members of the public in the event of a nuclear accident. that is why we need a different legal basis and a panel of experts broadened to include independent scientific experts on public health and food safety. this is not just a technical subject that can be left to nuclear boffins. it is of much wider public concern. similarly, it is essential that the levels of permitted radiation are set in a way that means food is safe to be consumed by people of all ages. can you imagine the stress that would be caused if advice went out that said that carrots, for instance, could be safely eaten by adults and yet not by children? we need clear guidelines that everyone can have confidence in. i therefore believe that we should follow the us model here and set the maximum effective dose limit at one microsievert per year for everybody. it is in any case high time that the levels in the annexes were reviewed, because they do not take account of changes in diet and cultural preferences. for example, cassava is a staple food for many people, not a minor substance. so the commission needs to submit a full report on maximum permitted levels. finally, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr belet, for the very consensual approach that he has adopted on this report. i hope the commission will bear in mind that parliament is remarkably united on this dossier.
mr president, as many of my colleagues have already commented, this is an incredibly important debate and an issue that needs to be debated not just here in this chamber within the european union, but in as far spread a way as possible. it is an issue on which i myself have yet to come down on one side of or the other. i keep swinging between the two: on the one hand there is my catholic upbringing, and on the other modern science and the benefits this can bring. that said, for the first time probably ever, i am going to commend a commissioner. what he said was absolutely correct: this should be left in the hands of the member states. the cultural and religious differences among the european union should be respected, and under no circumstances should this matter be taken out of the hands of the member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am delighted to be able to open our debate today on my report about emissions from light commercial vehicles (lcvs). before i get to the detail of the text, please allow me to express a few thanks: first of all to the shadow rapporteurs from all of the political groups; secondly to the rapporteurs and members of the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on industry, research and energy for their opinions; and thirdly to the commissioner and her team – we have had a number of very constructive meetings about this. fourthly i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its very hard work during the trialogue negotiations; finally, my thanks go to jos vervloet and isobel findlay from the envi secretariat, who have provided some incredible support throughout the process. in particular, isobel’s help on the complex comitology issues is very much appreciated. the proposed legislation has been expected ever since similar legislation was passed concerning passenger cars. personally, i was not entirely convinced of the need for this legislation because most vans are bought by businesses, both large and small, which are already very conscious of the need for economy and fuel efficiency. because of this, it has been my belief throughout the process that it is crucial to have an ambitious but realistic long-term target and an appropriate short-term target that takes into account both the needs of industry product cycles and the need for environmental improvement. it has always been the long-term target that has been the main focus throughout our debate. the commission’s original proposal was 135g co2 /km, which was deemed by many sources to be simply unachievable. the lcv sector has longer development and production times than the passenger car sector. similarly, lcvs, as their name implies, are used mainly for commercial purposes. unlike passenger cars, there is less scope to modify either their shape or their weight in a bid to reduce emissions. the principal way to accomplish this in lcvs is through modification of the engines and mechanics of the vehicles – a much longer and more expensive process than simply altering the body or reducing the weight of the vehicle. it should also be noted that there is already much greater penetration of diesel fuel usage in the lcv sector than in the car sector. when the commission published its original proposal, many of the manufacturers made it clear that they wished to settle for nothing less than 160g co2/km, a figure which in turn struck most of us in parliament as being far too relaxed and complacent. in the end, the package that we have all agreed on, and which is before you today, has a fairly sensible compromise position of 147g co2/km. given the higher costs of reducing co2 in lcvs compared to cars and the longer development and production cycles needed, my personal belief is that this provides a good balance between ensuring improved environmental standards on the one hand and giving a realistic and achievable target for the lcv manufacturing sector on the other. the fact that, by reaching this compromise figure, we are being attacked on one side as being too pro-industry and on the other as being too environmentally friendly, suggests to me that possibly we have just about got the balance right. one area of the commission’s proposal which all groups agreed was unworkable concerned the very complex issue of multi-stage vehicles. obviously it is unfair to penalise the manufacturers of the base vehicle when they are not responsible for what happens to the vehicle at a later stage of its production. the package that is before you today includes a very sensible proposal that the commission will review this issue before the end of the year and sets out the basis under which this review should take place. i believe that the package that we have negotiated, and which will be put before parliament today as amendment 58, is the best possible outcome. i am pleased to have the support – i hope – of most of the main political groups. it balances the need for improved environmental standards with realistic and achievable targets that will not prejudice manufacturing industry nor pose a risk to jobs in the union. generally, i am not in favour of first-reading agreements, believing that they are best avoided if at all possible. however, in this case, a first-reading agreement provides clarity and certainty to a sector that is still suffering in the wake of the global economic crisis, whilst also setting the bar for the tough but fair environmental standards that we all wish to see. i hope that colleagues will join me in supporting the package today.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, my father is a small businessman. he owns an electrical company and was only given the opportunity to set up this company due to the tax breaks and opportunities given to him by the conservative prime minister and true eurosceptic, margaret thatcher, back in the 1980s. like all small businessmen, he is overburdened with red tape and regulation – much of it emanating from this place, the european parliament. my father’s small business remains small. however, these kinds of businesses are the bedrock of the british economy and they amount to a staggering 73% of all businesses in the uk. my father drives a van, and like many small businesses he is struggling due to the recession. i have a grave concern that this legislation will put small businesses like my father’s out of business for ever, because we are told that this legislation will in fact put up to eur 5 000 on the price of vans. small businessmen can ill afford this cost at a time of economic strife. the gentleman from the socialists said that this is a good day for climate change policy in the eu. however, if this goes through, i guarantee it will be a bad day for small businessmen across the continent. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8)).
mr president, why does the honourable gentleman not understand that this measure is designed to improve the fuel efficiency of light commercial vehicles? that means reducing the costs of driving them, mile by mile, at a time when fuel prices are at a record high. this helps businesses, not hinders them.
mr president, again this place shows absolutely no knowledge of what goes on in the real world. people are struggling out there, and what this legislation does – and it has been made quite clear to us – is put up the cost of small vans which are driven by many small businessmen across the continent. it will put it up by at least eur 5 000. that is totally and utterly wrong, and it is something that we can ill afford in a time of recession.
mr president, as i hear discussions on ways to screw more money out of the little people in the name of climate change, i am struck by two things. the first is how no one talks about global warming anymore. even the most out-of-touch meps have clearly realised that exposés of fraudulent pseudoscience and record cold winters across the globe have made the public, rightly, very sceptical about all the deceitful propaganda about drowning polar bears. the second is the car park beneath us – porches, mercedes, bmws, suvs, a showroom of gas-guzzling luxury from the people who tut-tut in disapproval at many white vans and plot to make working lives even harder with speed limiters and financial penalties, all for a dogma based on discredited statistics pedalled by a clique of bought and paid-for academics, funded and hyped by super-rich vested interests in the green industrial complex – al gore, prince charles, shell and goldman sachs – all of whom stand to steal a fortune from the taxes harvested through wind factory subsidies and carbon trading. while i appreciate the efforts of some meps to blunt the worst excesses of this co2 hysteria, the plain truth is that anyone who even gives credence to the threadbare hoax of man-made global warming is a collaborator with the deadliest scam in history. yes, deadly, because it is not only robbing ordinary people and de-industrialising the west, it is also right now starving to death hundreds of thousands of the world’s poorest children as food crops are replaced by taxpayer-subsidised biofuels. but it is boosting profits for monsanto and giving meps all-expenses-paid trips to palm oil plantations in malaysia, so that is all right is it not? no, it is not, particularly as it is diverting attention from the real crisis – not that we are releasing carbon dioxide from fossil fuels, but that we are beginning to run low on the oil which powers our civilisation. every day wasted talking about limiting emissions of nature’s most important fertiliser is a day lost in the struggle to sustain more and more people on less and less energy. if it was not such a tragedy, it would be a farce. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
mr president, i do not know if the house noticed, but yesterday was also the record snowfall in korea for 100 years, so it is not just a few places. just as it was two years in copenhagen, when the climate change conference was there, it was the coldest at the climate change conference in cancun that it had been for decades. secondly, there is no evidence whatsoever of meltwater from the arctic impeding the gulf stream. there has been no change in that whatsoever. thirdly, your arguments would be more effective if the climate change computer models had foreseen this a couple of years ago. they did not. a couple of years ago we were told that our children would not know what snow was. what an absolute nonsense this has been. finally, as for the statistics showing a global warming trend, the key factor everyone is ignoring here is that 65% of the world’s weather stations are within 10 metres of an artificial heat source. they are virtually all in cities. the collapse of the soviet union meant that most of the weather stations in naturally cold areas were closed down. that is what has skewed the statistics, which are fundamentally bogus because people, boosted by the united nations, set about finding man-made global warming in order to impose the solutions they wanted.
mr president, maybe we should question whether or not we might have achieved more if this measure had been introduced to improve the fuel efficiency of commercial vehicles rather than to reduce co2. in practice, of course, it is the same, but one is seen as a cost to business, and the other as a saving. mr nuttall says that this measure will increase the price of vehicles by eur 5 000. i suspect it will not increase it by a single euro. let us have this debate in three years’ time and see who is right. the fact is that oil prices are now at usd 100 a barrel. that is more than the commission estimated when it undertook its assessments. the potential savings to business are greater, and i wish the epp would recognise this. the epp has been talking on behalf of big business, of the manufacturers, instead of on behalf of all the businesses which use light commercial vehicles and which need more fuel-efficient technology to drive down costs. the manufacturers have made great technological progress over recent years. we should be driving forward that ambition. i hope that the commission will come back in its review in a couple of years’ time and ensure that this ambition has a chance to be properly realised. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, does the right honourable gentleman really think that it is correct to vote for legislation that will in effect push up the cost of vehicles? he knows it will, and i know it will. in effect, what it will be doing is putting small firms in liverpool and manchester – in his own constituency – out of business. does he think that is fair? does he think it is morally correct? is he prepared to stand on that platform in the elections in three years’ time?
mr president, the uk government, in the form of the department for transport, actually undertook an assessment of the effects of this measure. it found they were likely to be more beneficial to businesses than even the commission had estimated. the net savings on running a vehicle, when fuel prices are at record highs, are greater than any potential increase in the cost of the vehicles – net savings for businesses and lower prices for consumers. this is what the uk independence party is so determined to fight against. in doing so, it wants businesses to pay more than they need.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me respond briefly to many of the points that have been made. mr schlyter said he thought it was bad for european industry and it would result in more light commercial vehicles being built in asia. i have to say that i simply do not understand that remark. we are setting the most challenging targets in the world by far, much tighter than the rules in the states or anything that exists in china or the far east. mrs wils compared this regulation with the passenger car regulation. in my view that is a false comparison. the opportunities to reduce emissions in passenger cars are much greater in terms of lightweighting and changing the fuel mix. there is already a much higher diesel penetration in the vans market. of course, by their nature, vans are already much more utilitarian and are bought by business customers. mr nuttall, i am afraid, has not stayed for the end of this debate, but he is wrong in the figures that he has given. this will result in overall cost savings for many businesses. i have to say that i would have a little more respect for the remarks that he made if indeed the efd group had bothered to send a single representative to any of our trialogue meetings or to any of our shadow meetings to make the point that they are fond of quoting on behalf of small businesses. (applause)in conclusion i think this is a good result. it produces the best balance, first of all in favour of costs for businesses, but also in terms of environmental improvement. whatever view you take of climate change, fuel efficiency – using precious resources more efficiently – has to be a good thing.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, firstly i would like to express my thanks, and the thanks of the s&d group, to mr cancian for his hard work on what was indeed a very difficult and very complicated dossier. two questions spring to mind when you look at this particular agreement. the first is, ‘is it ideal?’, and the second is, ‘does it move us forward?’. in response to the first question, from a parliamentary point of view i think we have to say that it is not ideal. by the very nature of it being a compromise, there are things there that parliament has had to give up, particularly on the scope, where we would have liked to have seen a smaller distance before the regulation kicks in. but does it move us forward? well, yes it does, because we will now have in place a similar set of rights for buses and coaches to those that we currently have for other modes of transport. it also moves us forward in our commitment to improving access to bus and coach travel for those people with reduced mobility, and indeed disabled people, throughout the european union. i would just pick up on one issue, which concerns asking for staff to be trained to help people with reduced mobility and disabilities so that they can have the same access to public transport as those of us who are able-bodied have. i know there is a derogation for member states to push this back for five years in this area, and i hope they will not use that. finally, i think it is important for us to support this final agreement so that the rights for all the modes of transport are now in place. i know we will go forward in future to look at them again and revise them again, but i think we have made a step forward in this area and that parliament should support the agreement that mr cancian reached with the council in conciliation.
madam president, i strongly support the principle of passenger rights, and it is only right that customers should expect a high standard of service. however, we must have a sense of proportionality and look at what effect this will actually have. we have to compare the real benefits for users with the true costs to businesses in this sector. this house and the commission often take a ‘one size fits all’ approach, but we must accept that passenger rights differ across different modes of transport. air travel is not the same as bus travel. most importantly here, the difference lies with the number of small- and medium-sized businesses in this sector. i believe everyone in this chamber knows the importance of reliable and profitable bus and coach services to our local economies, and it is for this reason that i strongly support the introduction of the 250 km rule. it is simply not right that small local companies providing very local or regional services should have these burdens put upon them. given the introduction of that protection, and the value of the underlying principle of this legislation, i strongly support the compromise.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday.
in writing. – i support this compromise on the rights of bus passengers, guaranteeing a right to transport, a right to accessible travel information, the obligation for bus operators to organise mandatory disability awareness training for drivers, a right to compensation for damaged wheelchairs, a complaint-handling mechanism for all passengers, with independent national bodies to enforce the regulation and issue penalties. for all bus and coach journeys of 250 km or more, there will be specific assistance, free of charge, for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility both at terminals and on board, and – where necessary – transport free of charge for accompanying persons. for blind and partially sighted people in particular, the provisions on accessible travel information and training of drivers in disability awareness would make a huge difference. equal access to transport is essential for independence, without equal access to transport people with disabilities cannot go to work, go shopping or take part in cultural and other leisure activities. while the text does not encompass all that i would want, by supporting it and strengthening the rights of all disabled passengers, i believe that an important step will be taken towards enabling europe’s guide dog users to move across the european union on an equal footing to other citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, russia is an important partner for the eu on many fronts, but we cannot pretend that russia is a genuine democracy with a rule of law. unsolved murders of journalists and human rights defenders to politically-motivated show trials with acquiescent judges say it all in my view. why, then, is russia tolerated as a member of the council of europe? that is a very good question. undoubtedly, the kremlin treasures this international legitimisation of a government described in the us diplomatic cables recently leaked by wikileaks as a virtual mafia state. conversely, the council of europe is discredited by its continued acquiescence towards russia’s authoritarian government. the european court of human rights has a backlog of 27 000 cases from russia alone, yet a russian judge on the court is able to order the british government to give british prisoners the right to vote. this not only exposes the absurdity of russia’s membership of the council of europe, but also encapsulates why the council of europe is in my view increasingly ignored internationally. sadly now, and as a result of this, many britons, including politicians, think it is time for the uk to review its membership of this organisation and its very intrusive court.
madam president, many of us in this house see russia as part of the great family of european nations and had hoped that after the fall of the berlin wall we would see russia moving closer to the european union. sadly, that has not been the case. the current russian leadership has chosen its own path, and it is one which causes great distress to those of us who wish to see freedom and democracy and the rule of law for the russian people. the commissioner here today has more experience than most of us in dealing with russia, and no doubt will have his own experience there, but i hope that the commission will put pressure on the high representative to adopt a new policy towards any country whose leaders constantly flout the values we hold dear. let us talk to them and engage with them on trade, as we need to. let us endeavour to discuss with them human rights, as we should, but let us not allow their leaders to launder their money through europe’s banking systems, to educate their children in our schools or universities, or to take holidays in our holiday resorts. if we applied that equally to all authoritarian leaders across the world, we would start moving towards what one could call an ethical foreign policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday on thursday, 17 february 2011. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 and resumed at 12.00) written statements (rule 149)
madam president, i hope i can make myself heard above the din. i wonder if you could advise me when action is going to be taken in this house to prevent members constantly having to run the gauntlet between the lifts from their offices and this chamber and being accosted by people – whether they are lobbyists, assistants or whatever – trying to thrust myriad pieces of paper into our hands as we approach this chamber to vote. this place is getting to look more like a university students’ union than a parliament, madam president, and i hope you will take action to stop it.
madam president, there has been a misunderstanding from the earliest days of the european union as to what we mean by a free market in goods and services. when my constituents voted in favour of eec membership in 1975, they understood the common market to mean mutual product recognition. if you can sell a bottle of mineral water in the uk, you should be allowed to sell the same water in france, germany or italy and vice versa. what they found in practice is that it means standardisation – that ‘the mineral water has to contain the following minerals but not any of these’, that ‘the volume must be not greater than x and not less than y’ and so on. you can then find that a product that was never intended for export can be criminalised in its own nation of origin. that is what we have seen again and again both with goods and with services. instead of having an increase of consumer choice, we have a restriction of consumer choice, often driven by one particular producer somewhere in the european union which happens to meet a load of specifications anyway and which sees eu legislation as the way to export its costs to its competitors. this is why our share of world gdp continues to shrink and how my country has shackled itself to a cramped and confined regional bloc.
madam president, i remember when the services directive first went through this parliament in the last mandate, how controversial many of the elements were. i also remember personally, as the rapporteur for the trade and services report, the great controversy when i spoke about the need to liberalise many services – financial services, health services, education services, water services – to provide consumers with more choice and better services, rather than relying on clapped-out old state monopolies, which quite often taxpayers were underfunding. here we have this definition of services of general economic interest, as if somehow the disciplines that allow us to have a wonderful choice when it comes to supermarkets or other types of services do not apply to water, education and health. it is time that we moved on from the politics of 30 years ago when certain things could only be state-provided. the implication has been that they have been underfunded and not provided well. let us move towards more service liberalisation throughout the eu and throughout the globe.
madam president, while i acknowledge that there are many positive aspects to this report – and i strongly support the right of those with disabilities to have access to transport and to compensation – i believe that these kinds of schemes should be put in place by national governments. i also believe that the financial burden associated with this proposal would be prohibitive for many transport providers. this parliament must remember that many coach firms are privately owned, are relatively small and are under an increasing financial pressure as a result of the huge rise in fuel prices experienced over the last 12 to 18 months. for many private firms, and indeed government transport schemes, additional cost will only result in two things: higher ticket prices for customers and reduced routes. indeed, it will put many in the voluntary sector – which runs many of the schemes for those with disabilities – out of business altogether.
madam president, we have just voted on a report called ‘emissions performance standards for light commercial vehicles’. like much eu legislation, it is a long-winded title for a real issue. let me translate: light commercial vehicles are of course vans, and performance standards mean fuel emissions which depend on fuel burnt. now, we have all seen the rising fuel prices at the pumps, but for sole traders like builders, plumbers and carpenters, running their van is a business-critical cost. they want fuel efficient vehicles and fuel efficiency has always been a key part of their buying decision. on the production line in the general motors factory in luton, in my constituency, i have also seen that the innovation needed for improvements comes from the factory floor. there are some who think that just because targets are set in this house in europe, they will be achieved. but the truth is that achieving those targets will mean the innovation comes, whether from vans or otherwise, and it will come from consumer demands and manufacturers’ improvements and not just from european legislation.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement between the eu and south africa which sets out new provisions on development, in particular with regard to combating poverty, aid effectiveness and the mdgs. south africa is an important partner both for trade and development relations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement as it will improve europe’s trade and development relations with south africa, which are critical for the south african region and also for us.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i question the propriety of granting iceland any concessions regarding the importation of fisheries produce into the eu when they continue to persist with their approach on the management of mackerel, with the negative impact this is likely to have on eu pelagic fishermen. established in 1994, the agreement permits iceland, liechtenstein and norway to participate in the eu's single market without conventional eu membership. in exchange, they are obliged to adopt all eu legislation related to the single market except those pieces of legislation that relate to agriculture and fisheries. iceland can export fisheries produce to the eu tariff-free. it is a difficult pill to swallow that having blatantly disregarded international management of the mackerel stock and in 2010 declared a catch of 100 000 tonnes, iceland has the freedom to export its entire mackerel catch into the eu. while the fisheries concessions granted to iceland may not have changed in the new agreement, iceland's behaviour with regard to fisheries management has certainly changed and in this light i would question if this agreement should be ratified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the koppa report on the financial mechanism relating to fisheries. nevertheless, this does not indicate that all is well with eu-eea fisheries matters. the refusal of iceland to come to an agreement with the eu and norway in relation to mackerel is highly regrettable and i strongly urge all parties to go back to the negotiating table
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which gives an opportunity to strengthen the contribution of eea and efta states to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the european economic area. in the meantime, fisheries concessions remain unchanged for iceland and are modestly increased for norway.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement which will strengthen the contribution of eea-efta states in tackling social and economic disparities within the european economic area.
in writing. − i voted for this horizontal agreement, which is not important in itself, but is an important step in strengthening eu-brazil aviation relations, allowing brazil and the eu to further enhance aviation cooperation and to move towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement between them. the comprehensive air agreement should be based on a combination of gradual market opening and on regulatory cooperation and convergence. the benefits to the eu will be more routes and lower fares for consumers.
in writing. − i have supported this agreement which will encourage further cooperation between the eu and brazil in the field of civil aviation. the eu aviation industry will benefit from the removal of nationality restrictions between member states and brazil.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement which allows states associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen agreement to participate in the external borders fund for the 2007 to 2013 period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the coelho report. whilst scotland is not a part of the schengen area, we do opt in to certain parts of the schengen aquis. the scottish government has been actively involved in this area at council level and i am happy to support that work.
in writing. − i voted for this report. liechtenstein is a doubly landlocked alpine microstate in western europe, bordered by switzerland to the west and south and by austria to the east. it has an area of 160 km2, an estimated population of 35 000 and has the highest gross domestic product per person in the world. liechtenstein has been steadily integrating into the european trade area since its accession to the european economic area (eea) in 1995. the jurisdiction has now implemented 98.4% of eu directives into domestic law. liechtenstein is also part of the single market, in which the same basic rules apply to all participating states.
in writing. − i welcome the renewed referral to parliament of the draft council decision and thus the continuation of the negotiations on the association of liechtenstein with the dublin agreement with switzerland. the consent of parliament must be obtained – as it called for at first reading – in order to conclude this protocol with liechtenstein. i support the conclusion of the protocol. in the light of the successfully concluded negotiations with liechtenstein and the amended legal basis, i voted for consent to be given.
in writing. − the european airline industry and its customers have not had an easy ride over the last few months! the infamous volcanic ash crisis occurred precisely when the airlines and its passengers of course, were coping with the effects of a very difficult recession. however, in the midst of these challenges comes some good news for business and passengers alike! today’s vote on the eu-brazil air service agreement brings significant mutual benefits. firstly, brazil is a very strategically important partner for the eu with an enormous potential future market. currently more than four million passengers per year fly between brazil and the eu. a country with a rapidly developing tourism sector, this number can only rise. from a business perspective, sao paolo is the financial capital of south america. the development of the highly specialised oil and financial industry will lead to greater demand for air travel. the main achievement of this is the removal of nationality restrictions in the existing bilateral agreements between member states and brazil. this is an extremely important first step in strengthening eu-brazil aviation relations which has allowed brazil and the eu to move towards negotiating comprehensive air transport agreement. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170)
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament consenting to the conclusion of this visa-waiver agreement as soon as possible, so that all eu citizens, including those of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, can travel without a visa to brazil for purposes of tourism and business, in the same way that citizens of brazil can already travel visa-free to all eu member states. we need to enforce the eu’s visa reciprocity policy without delay.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the visa waiver covers the holders of diplomatic, service or official passports travelling for purposes of tourism or business. the citizens of the contracting parties may stay in each other’s territory for a maximum period of three months during a six-month period following the date of first entry. visa exemption for travel purposes other than those stipulated in the agreement is still possible under the provisions of bilateral agreements signed by brazil with 23 of the 27 member states. the agreement takes into account the situation of member states that do not yet fully apply the schengen acquis. as long as these member states (cyprus, bulgaria and romania) are not part of the schengen area, the visa waiver confers a right on brazilian citizens to stay for three months on the territory of each of them, irrespective of the period calculated for the entire schengen area.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. the services directive adopted in 2006 aimed to harmonise certain aspects of the single market related to the provision of services. full implementation by member states should have been achieved by the end of 2009. i call on those member states who have not fulfilled their obligations to do so as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i supported this report on the implementation of the services directive 2006/123/ec. it is important that social rights and labour law are respected as the internal market is improved for services, all of which will benefit traders as well as consumers.
in writing. − i fully support evelyne gebhardt's report on the implementation of the services directive. the activities of the 2006 directive account for 40% of eu gdp and jobs. however, the different implementation methods of member states have made it difficult for the service sector to take full advantage of the directive. allowing service providers to operate outside their own country is integral to the eu's single market and reducing the bureaucracy at national level can allow the directive to make a contribution to eu economic growth and its jobs objectives. according to the report, each member state must ensure that more information is disseminated to businesses that want to provide services across borders. doing this through points of single contact (pscs) will allow the service sector to benefit from cross-border trade. ensuring that the pscs provide a human as well as an electronic contact point is also vital to ensure that users receive all the relevant information and that questions are answered. the report also proposes the inclusion of services that were exempt from the original directive in 2006: healthcare, transport and social services. this would further expand the scope of the directive and would bring benefits to more service sector workers.
in writing. − we have opposed this legislation on the grounds that it is certain that: 1. the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers;2. bus and coach routes which are making marginal or no profit, having no room for increased ticket prices, will be cut entirely and there will be no service. the eu should not have the right to make laws for the uk. we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
in writing. − we have opposed this legislation on the grounds that it is certain that:1. the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers; 2. bus and coach routes which are making marginal or no profit, having no room for increased ticket prices, will be cut entirely and there will be no service. the eu should not have the right to make laws for the uk. we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
in writing. − we have opposed this legislation on the grounds that it is certain that: 1. the extra costs incurred for extra rights will translate into permanently higher ticket costs across the board for all passengers; 2. bus and coach routes which are making marginal or no profit, having no room for increased ticket prices, will be cut entirely and there will be no service. the eu should not have the right to make laws for the uk. we assert the right of the uk as a nation state to govern itself and make its own laws, transport and environment laws being no exception.
in writing. − i voted in favour of giving important new rights to bus and coach passengers. i think that we have struck a fair balance between the rights of consumers and the needs of transport providers. today's vote will be particularly important for disabled passengers, who will benefit as a result of today's vote.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which sets out a new set of rights for bus and coach passengers and should enhance the quality of the services on offer to them, putting pressure on transport service providers to clean up their acts when it comes to delays, cancellations and lost or damaged luggage. the report also includes key provisions to improve the accessibility of local bus services for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to provide passengers travelling by bus or coach with more rights, including the right of assistance for disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility. protecting consumers is a key priority of the labour party in europe.
in writing. − i welcome the report on bus and coach passenger rights as it is an important step in providing greater protection to travellers, as well as in increasing the comfort and ease of disabled passengers. the report ensures those travelling on longer-distance coach journeys across europe have access to better information, support and compensation in case of delay or cancellation of a service. passengers will be entitled to refreshments in the case of short delay, a refund for over 2 hours’ delay and up to eur 1200 for lost or damaged luggage. i support the important advances this report makes for the rights of disabled travellers. for the first time, non-discriminatory access to transport is guaranteed as the regulation states that all bus and coach staff must be trained to help people with disabilities, and where suitable assistance cannot be offered a passenger may travel free with the disabled person to ensure their comfort. this is an important step in uniting europe against discrimination. my vote in favour of this report reflects the need for a european standard of rights for bus and coach passengers that ensures their comfort, safety and fair treatment as they travel across europe.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal laying out higher emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles. this should make an important contribution to improving the quality of air in city centres in particular.
in writing. − i have supported this report which is part of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles. by helping manufacturers to develop green technology we can benefit companies and also create jobs whilst helping to tackle the environmental problems that we are facing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today as it signals another step in the right direction in the fight against climate change. co2 limits for new vans will lead to cleaner, more fuel-efficient vehicles in the eu. targets have been set and incentives for more efficient vans will hopefully kick-start an innovation drive across the industry. this should give companies, including many small businesses in wales, who rely on these vans an opportunity to use more fuel-efficient vans and control costs at a time of rising oil prices.
in writing. − i voted for this report. i believe the permitted level of radiation in foodstuffs must be raised and in addition monitoring and compliance must be improved. depending on the outcome of the final reading, this regulation has the potential to contribute to that process. i welcome the fact that this regulation will also apply to foodstuffs or feedingstuffs imported from third countries in customs transit or intended for export.
in writing. − ecr group meps supported this report as we believed that the legal basis of this legislation should be changed from ‘article 31 eaec’ to ‘article 168 tfeu’. under the original regulation, article 31 eaec (which focuses on the group of persons who might be subject to radioactive contamination) was considered the most appropriate legal basis as article 168 tfeu (which regulates public health) did not exist. if article 168 tfeu was the legal base of this regulation then this would imply a change from consultation to the ordinary legislative procedure and then the proposal would be subject to full european parliament scrutiny, and, most importantly, a full impact assessment including consultation with food producers and consumers. while there could be certain aspects of parliament’s adopted report that ecr meps do not support, we strongly believe that the legal basis of this regulation should be changed to fully involve the european parliament in the legislative process and additionally that it should be accompanied by a thorough impact assessment. the ecr group therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − parliament today voted for a change in the legal basis for legislation on radioactive contamination in foodstuffs. this is an extremely important issue and it is only right that this house has codecision powers.
mr president, i would like to ask mr gualtieri whether it has occurred to him that intergovernmental cooperation would be a much better path for the peoples of europe and the unemployed in europe than the european superstate which he seems to be advocating? has that occurred to him?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i support this treaty change and my group supports it, because we want to see stability within the euro zone. although the united kingdom is not a member of the euro – and i hope it never joins – we have a vested interest in its success. half of the uk’s trade is with euro zone countries. the city of london is the financial capital of europe. so britain wishes the euro zone well and we hope that the proposed stability mechanism will provide support in the short to medium term. my hope is that this parliament will act responsibly and approve the change proposed by council. but in the long term, if the euro is to survive and prosper, more radical change is necessary. mr barroso, you can have as much supervision and surveillance as you like, as much economic governance as you like, but fundamentally if countries like greece and ireland and portugal are to remain within the euro zone they need to become a lot more competitive, as competitive as germany, and that is where your commission should concentrate its efforts.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, perhaps i could start at nought. it began by being a customs union pure and simple, then it became a political union, but without proper democratic consent, then it became a monetary union – well, sort of, because ten member states have been sensible enough to stay out – but what we now have is a debt union, and it is a debt union which simply is not working. let us look at the interest rate of the german bund. if monetary union was working, all members of the monetary union, all countries in the euro zone, would be able to borrow money at the same rate – at the same rate as the key indicator, the german bund – but that is not the case at all. currently, portugal pays 4.8% more, ireland pays 5.9% more, and greece pays 8.25% more. exactly as mr gualtieri said, it is a crucial moment. i do not expect the chairman of the ppe group, or the chairman of the s&d group – who was shaking his head as i spoke – to understand the critical importance of this, but i believe that very soon they will have to. your problem, and it is mostly your problem, would be better solved by intergovernmental cooperation. economic governance is a trap and moreover it has no mandate. nobody ever mentioned, or even seems to consider, the hard-pressed taxpayers of the nation state as you seek to construct this fragile and vain empire. once again i would remind you that there are 27 member states: 11 of them are net contributors and 16 of them are recipients, and there is a san andreas fault between those who contribute and those who do not. i suspect that most of all the german taxpayer will not put up with this expensive charade for very much longer. in 1896, william jennings bryan, in a great speech about bimetallism, said, ‘you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold’. now more urgently, i say to you today, and most of all to the president of the commission, who has the executive power: you shall not crucify the taxpayers of the uk and the rest of europe on the cross of the single currency.
mr president, well, here we go again. the failed political project that is the euro has led us to amend the lisbon treaty twice in its short life. we should remember, of course, that the lisbon treaty was bludgeoned through the referendum in ireland. the irish people said ‘no’ but they were lied to; they were told that their economy would be protected, but they were misled, and now, as the european union does when it encounters a problem, it does not take a step back to ask ‘what have we done wrong?’ no, you want further integration and you want the small states to suffer more. you wish to fine them if they get into further difficulties, which will then put them in more difficulties and make them more subject to your european empire. i want to say this to mr barroso: yes, the uk may have a debt problem, but it is not helped by having to bail out eurozone countries like ireland when we have had to borrow the money to do that in the first place.
mr president, changing the treaty is not something we should enter into lightly, especially given the fact that the lisbon treaty took considerable work and negotiation. therefore, this parliament and the council must be very restrained in how we now set about amending it. this change is necessary in order to protect weaker eurozone economies. however, the positions of those member states who are not part of the euro must also be upheld. this treaty change will not solve the failure of member states to live up to their agreements under the stability and growth pact. it will not solve the underlying problems of huge public deficits, nor will it make the eu more competititive on a global stage. it is merely a stop-gap measure that should give us more time to get the individual eurozone and our collective houses in order. each of the eu member states needs to look at its own public spending and tax policies and devise realistic programmes to reinvigorate our economies. one line of text added into an international agreement, although necessary, will be no substitute for real reform and prudence, therefore a real strategy for global competitiveness needs to emerge.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would say to the commissioner that it is clear we are dealing with a system which is broken. what is clear is that the european courts and european legislation are in conflict. we are no longer dealing with a situation where a law is being implemented, but rather it is being interpreted in a novel way. i believe that the european union is best equipped to deal with the challenges of immigration through a nuanced system which is not dictatorial, not through more harmonised european legislation or the moral rulings of the european courts, but instead through solidarity, cooperation and good communication among european neighbours. we must be mindful that whatever burden is relieved in one place is not just moved to another. of course, we have a duty to other eu member states and to people seeking a safer and a freer life, but the recent court ruling points at larger problems, which are the relationship between the european courts, european legislators and the member states and their control of their own borders. commissioner, i would be interested to know how the commission is attempting to confront these issues in the long term. could you please reassure this house that we will not just turn to the creation of more eu legislation, which no doubt at some point in the future will itself be overturned by a european court, but instead tell us how we can effectively support greece and other member states that are currently operating under such burdens?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i too would like to add my voice to that of others who thanked our rapporteur for the very good work that has been done on this report. we are all aware there are national differences as well as differences within our own political groups and to come up with anything that gains a significant level of support is quite something. my group is especially pleased that the report before us recognises the importance of first-pillar pensions, the commitment to an adequate level, the issue of being able to provide a decent life. after all we spent all of last year, 2010, dealing with questions of poverty. and of course this is also, for many people, a fixed income, an essential guarantee. like others, we also welcome the recognition that we need to tackle decent pension provision here for women. we also recognise the importance of tackling discrimination against older workers and using other measures to help people stay in work. for us, too, the portability of pension rights is a crucial issue. more and more people are not working for one company throughout their working life. indeed they are working for several and not always in the same country. and we need to avoid this fragmentation of pension provision, so there is an essential role for the european union there. we are also pleased to see that this report contains a commitment for second-pillar provision, that it should be available without discrimination on grounds of age, gender and work contract. we would agree as well – and are pleased to see it there – that we need to be adopting more of a life course approach that deals with the different rhythms and patterns of modern working lives, both positive and negative. and again we recognise the importance of solidarity in that first pillar, not least for those whose working lives are involved with more casual labour, short-term contracts and so on. we are concerned at any effort to push third-pillar private pension provision and we agree that it is crucial that people have adequate and clear information. we would also welcome the fact that this report contains – if there is going to be change in pension provision – adequate time for adaptation for people to reconsider their financial futures.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, my group supports the publication of this green paper. it is very timely and comes at a time when we are, in all member states, debating the issues which have already been mentioned and which i will not labour – changing demographics, the gender challenge, to name just two. the report recognises the importance of member states sharing best practice and exchanging information, but also emphasises that pensions remain a member state competence. it acknowledges that the eu should not legislate on the adequacy of pension levels and retirement ages, but asks – and asks very clearly and very strongly – that member states regulate in accordance with their own circumstances, taking account of those issues. i do believe that further work on portability is essential to strengthen the single market. eu citizens working around europe – and i have met many – should not be left disadvantaged by having their pension pots frozen in different member states. demographics change and so do working practices. our expectations change, but it is vital that we keep up with these changes in our thinking and our policy making.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in the committee on employment and social affairs on 22 november last year, the rapporteur said that pensions were exclusively a competence of the member state. now this has become something more like: although member states have the lead, there are aspects where coordination at european level is important. in paragraph 9, the resolution stresses member states’ competence but calls on them to coordinate their different pension policies. there is double speak here, with eu control overturning principle. the uk national association of pension funds says that this report will make pensions more expensive – by 90% according to actuarial consultants punter southall. if that is exaggerated, it is certainly true that huge extra sums will be needed to prevent pensions collapsing, so premiums will rise massively. pension firms and member states do not need this report, they need help to keep premiums down, otherwise this misguided report has the potential to destroy that which it seeks to protect.
madam president, i would like to thank ria oomen-ruijten for all her hard work on this. i think she has done a very good job. this makes it very clear that pensions are, first and foremost, the responsibility of member states. thankfully, we have rejected any call for a minimum pension at eu level, as well as for a solvency ii-type regulation to be applied to pensions. the lisbon treaty makes it very clear that it is member states, not the eu, who are responsible for pension provision. but what we can do is share best practice and experience. i am pleased that my amendment calling for the implementation of the employment directive 2000 to outlaw discrimination on the grounds of age is also included. with regard to the retirement age, i have always made it clear that we must keep a pensionable age – an age when you are entitled to claim your pension – set at member state level but, at the same time, scrap the compulsory retirement age, which forces people to stop working even if they want to carry on. i am sorry that this was not in the report.
madam president, when bismarck introduced a state pension in 1889 the average life expectancy was just 45. today we live longer, but face the challenge of how to achieve reasonable incomes in retirement. economic, demographic and labour market traditions vary. individual countries should be responsible for their own policies and reforms. sustainable state pensions need sustainable public finances, but this parliament’s report is clear: there cannot be a harmonised eu retirement age or minimum income level. company schemes and individual savings should be portable from one employer to another, and across countries. savers deserve transparent information, which is easy to understand and available. yes, we need safe saving schemes, but rules on capital must be intelligent. risks for pensions are not the same as insurance companies or banks. the cost of regulation falls on the consumer and, in this case, the old-age pensioner.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. when we look at medicine in today’s global markets, we see that there are no borders. therefore, we have no option but to deal with the issue of counterfeit medicine in a global manner. only by a united eu approach can we tackle the increasing counterfeit products available to the public – available not only through the shop floor, but via distribution services such as the internet. the directive presses all the right buttons and goes some way towards addressing the problem. could we have gone further? the answer is yes. should we have gone further? here i must say no. we have laid down tighter controls on prescription medicine as a first step. we have addressed the internet pharmacy issue. we have looked at the safety features. yes, we could have gone further on the traceability, taking it up to the patient, but this is a battle that we would have lost and it would have delayed the directive. as they say, rome was not built in a day. i look forward to building on the foundations of this directive.
colleagues, just to say that you are all doing well in keeping to your speaking time, but you are stretching our interpreters’ capacities by speaking very fast. could we try and find a happy medium, please.
madam president, fake medicines, as we have heard, are an increasing problem. customs officials stopped 32 million counterfeit medicinal products from entering the eu in 2008. the who estimates that 50% of drugs supplied over the internet are falsified and there are even cases when the legitimate supply chain has been infiltrated. for example, between 2005 and 2007 in the uk there were a number of cases reported by the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency of fake lifesaving products, such as astrazeneca’s prostrate cancer drug, casodex, and the antiplatelet drug, plavix, which protects against heart attack and stroke, actually reaching wholesalers and even pharmacy shelves. that is why we urgently need to tighten the rules on import, export and trade in fake medicines. i very much support this regulation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (wednesday, 16 february 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0009/2011). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
i would just like to make it clear how i will deal with the supplementary questions this evening. i will take all the supplementaries together – remember that you have 30 seconds for the supplementary – and then i will ask the commissioners to answer all the supplementaries en masse.
question 19 by ivo belet (h-000027/11) subject: sale of ipad subscriptions by appleipad producer apple is demanding that newspaper and magazine publishers offer their readers their products (casual sales as well as subscriptions) exclusively via apple’s itunes online store, so that it retains control of the sale conditions. this means that ipad users can no longer order any newspaper or magazine for ipad via the website of the publishers concerned. does the commission regard this action as compatible with eu law and such principles as interoperability and an open internet? could this be a case of abuse of a dominant position and therefore infringement of articles 101 and 102 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union? what action will the commission be taking in this connection?
question 20 by laima liucija andrikiene (h-000053/11) subject: protection of investments in the context of eu-russia negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement does the commission raise issues relating to investment protection, especially in the energy sector, in its negotiations with the russian federation on the new partnership and cooperation agreement? drawing on a number of cases when european energy companies were forced out of the russian market without the possibility to seek impartial and fair local judicial protection, does the commission intend to include an investor-to-state dispute settlement mechanism in the new partnership agreement or additional economic agreements with the russian federation? what is the position of the commission with regard to the energy charter treaty (ect)? is the commission still hopeful that the russian government might again sign the ect and eventually ratify it? or will similar provisions relating to the protection of investments in the energy sector be included in the new partnership agreement?
question 21 by anne e. jensen (h-000058/11) subject: eu support for the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria in the 2011 budget, considerable amounts have been allocated to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria (gfatm) (eur 65 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 47 608 950 in payment appropriations). recent reports have shown significant failings within the fund; and because of corruption and bribery problems involving the fund, some member states have halted payments to it. how will the commission ensure that the funds allocated to the gfatm are not used for bribery and corruption? what has the commission done to ensure that the gfatm still complies with the rules on eligibility for eu funds? has the commission considered halting funding to the gfatm?
commissioner, do you agree that the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria is vital and that it would be criminal to halt funding now because it would bring to an end these lifesaving projects? furthermore, do you agree that we must, as you said, reinforce control mechanisms as well as our commitment to ensuring that the global fund delivers for those most in need – people at threat from aids/hiv, malaria and tuberculosis? this evil of corruption must not be paid for by the innocent who are living with aids/hiv and who are at threat from malaria and tuberculosis.
question 22 by jim higgins (h-000013/11) subject: the ce mark could the commission outline what progress has been made on strengthening the ce mark in order to promote european exports in markets like south america and asia, as this was one of the commitments that commissioner tajani made upon being appointed to office?
question 23 by georgios papanikolaou (h-000015/11) subject: uneven environment for growth and development in member states one of the key priorities of 'europe 2020' strategy is to support entrepreneurship through policies aimed at promoting growth and improving the business climate, in particular for smes. nevertheless, among member states there is a very uneven business environment since, in many of them, setting up a new business involves a lot of red tape and high costs: this discourages entrepreneurship. moreover, the economic crisis has exacerbated the problem and is creating a map of the eu characterised by disparities as regards entrepreneurship and thus growth. does the commission consider that the objective of business growth set out in the 'europe 2020' strategy is realistic and can be achieved within the next decade in all member states, given the existence of these disparities? will it recommend that member states adopt specific policies and a common framework for addressing the problems which deter entrepreneurship? question 24 by brian crowley (h-000042/11) subject: small to medium-sized enterprises can the commission outline what measures are in place to help small to medium-sized companies based in europe who wish to export and invest in developing economies such as china? question 25 by marian harkin (h-000057/11) subject: entrepreneurship in countries implementing austerity measures are there any measures proposed to support entrepreneurship particularly in those countries that are implementing severe austerity measures?
question 30 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-000019/11) subject: commission's equal opportunities strategy on 17 december 2010, the commission launched a new equal opportunities strategy for the period to 2014, in which it set new targets for the number of women in senior and middle management positions and for the recruitment of women to administrator (ad) posts in the commission's directorates-general, departments and services. the new equal opportunities strategy will thus seek to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women working at the commission, but does not extend to the eu's other institutions and agencies. will the commission's equal opportunities strategy affect women working in other eu institutions? does the commission see a need to draw up a common strategy on equal opportunities, in order to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women working in other european agencies and institutions as well? gender equality and equal opportunities are fundamental eu principles and should therefore apply universally, without exception, to all eu workers.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex).
mr kelly, thank you for your intervention. i should say as one of the vice-presidents responsible for question time that i am concerned that we have not moved, as an institution, with the commission, to implement what we agreed in our interinstitutional agreement, which was to improve question time. i am glad that commissioner šefčovič is here tonight and has seen the problems that we are experiencing at first hand. i hope therefore there may be a new dynamic to try to move to the situation that we had envisaged when negotiating the interinstitutional agreement. (the sitting was suspended at 20.50 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if albania is to make progress towards its eventual goal of eu accession, its political leaders need to engage in a more constructive, democratic and mature way. last month’s violence was a reminder of the inherent instability of albanian politics. i also wonder whether the council and commission have considered revisiting last year’s decision to grant albanians visa-free travel to the eu in the light of the bloodshed, which may of course generate more economic emigration to the schengen area if foreign direct investment dries up. such a step would certainly underline the fact that albania continues to fall well short of the eu’s expectations. organised crime and corruption still flourish and the judiciary is too often manipulated by politicians. prime minister berisha even interfered with the arrest, ordered by the prosecutor-general, of guardsmen who had shot protestors, claiming that a coup d’état was imminent. democratic institutions are weak and press freedom is scarce. the decision by edi rama’s socialist party to boycott the parliament on the basis of alleged electoral fraud has compounded albania’s instability. there is no way albania can even begin to enact the reforms necessary to regain the eu’s confidence in the current political environment of instability. this instability may also now cause nato to reconsider its own enlargement policy, albania having joined the alliance less than two years ago. nato leaders must now question whether albanian membership was granted too soon. aside from my own concerns about albania’s political instability and how it will impact on the country’s eu aspirations, i am also sceptical about albania’s strategic priorities. albania is a full member of the organisation of the islamic conference, an increasingly powerful and influential lobby in the un promoting the interests of its members and voting as a bloc on human rights and foreign policy matters. oic members include albania and turkey, both of whom are signatories to the cairo declaration on human rights, which cites sharia as the basis for human rights in muslim countries. albania, like turkey, must now decide between embracing western values, or whether to give primacy to those of sharia law which the european court of human rights here in strasbourg has deemed incompatible with european values, though so far in my view albania’s membership of the oic, in fairness, seems only nominal. albania is, after all, a secular country in practice. it seems to have been designed by the albanian leadership that they join the oic in order to attract middle eastern money, rather than based on any strong religious convictions, but of course this could all change in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, thank you, commissioner, for your very careful statement. those in this parliament who know me and know the 12 years i have spent here will know that i intervene in such debates with a great reticence. but over a year ago, as a vice-president of this parliament, i was asked to visit bulgaria to speak about the stockholm programme for justice. it is clear that our programme for justice has moved from an emphasis on security to an emphasis on justice, and all of us in our member states have to get that balance right. i remember from my visit to bulgaria the great interest of bulgarian judges in what we are doing and want to pursue at union level. but i was surprised last week to receive a visitor in my office in brussels who spoke about people in bulgaria receiving visits from the secret service in their homes at night. this is something that is totally alien to me and i find it very difficult to understand and to stand here saying this. that said, it seems to me, as mr swoboda has already said, that the current legislation that exists on phone tapping – let us call it what it is – appears to be correct. where there was formerly scrutiny by an independent body, there is now scrutiny by a parliamentary body. has that led to a lessening of the regard for rights? there does seem to be an increase in the numbers and an increase in the numbers seems to indicate, and i underline ‘seems’, that there is an easier or a quicker granting by judges of this possibility. part of the reason i want to speak is a linked matter which relates to the citizen’s initiative. it appears that people feel that they are being pressurised to withdraw signatures. we have to implement the european citizens’ initiative over the course of the next year. i would ask the commission to watch this space very carefully.
mr president, it is always uncomfortable when any member state has its internal situation scrutinised. i want to say, in the same spirit that mrs wallis indicated, that my own government in the united kingdom was investigated for its operation of rendition – taking people to be tortured allegedly. this of course was very uncomfortable for me and for my government in the united kingdom, but i took part actively in that investigation because it was necessary to do it in a european-wide way. why? and why are we here today discussing the internal interception arrangements of the bulgarian government? not because of bulgaria, but because we are a community of values. as a community of values, the issue is that raised by the commissioner – i quote, ‘that interception must be used exceptionally’. while not a great lawyer like mrs wallis, i am a lawyer, and i know that you must only use interception exceptionally. it is one of those things which, if used in an unnecessary, inappropriate or disproportionate way, instead of becoming an aid to the attack on organised crime, which is very important in bulgaria and elsewhere in the european union, becomes a weapon of the state. it does not matter which political party is originating this debate, to move from discussing an attack on organised crime to using an instrument of the state disproportionately is a very serious matter for the european union and it is not exclusive today to bulgaria. tomorrow it may be another member state. i genuinely looked into all the sources and figures, and i would ask colleagues across the parties in this house, is there anyone who is saying that an inappropropriate or disproportionate use of interception was or was not used? if you want to dispute the figures used by mr swoboda, is anyone disputing that a disproportionate use of interception has happened? i have looked at many sources before speaking today, because we have to speak carefully about such issues. i have not seen anyone on any side of the debate saying disproportionate use has not happened. for that reason the commission must investigate this. (the president cut the speaker off).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we believe that enlargement is one of the more successful aspects of eu policy, provided it is carried out according to rigorous criteria and that lessons are learned from previous accessions. according to the council, the conclusion of accession negotiations with croatia is within reach, but we know from the commission that corruption issues and judicial reform have not yet been properly dealt with. this is very serious. our concerns are not artificial. croatia, with a population of 4.5 million, apparently suffers from nearly a million backlogged court cases, with a significant number of cases connected to the abuse of property rights. media freedom is also under assault. former ministers have been charged with corruption. some might see this as evidence of action. actually it reveals the depth of a malaise that has hardly been addressed. widespread corruption among politicians and the judiciary has meant a failure to tackle organised crime directly connected to the balkan route. despite the litany of problems outlined here, croatia’s early accession seems a foregone conclusion. it would be a pity if the accession process became a mere formality, dependent on subjective political whim, completed before these fundamental problems are resolved.
mr president, less than 20 years ago croatia fought to secure its independence. now it is being handed out without a shot being fired. croatia has had to make extensive and intrusive legislative changes. it has also had to withdraw support from its vital industries and the people who work in them. the croatians must do all of these things before the european union condescends to accept croatia for membership. of greatest importance, all of these changes are being conceded before the consent of the people through a promised referendum has been granted, or even asked for. despite opinion-poll evidence of majority opposition to eu membership, a positive outcome of the referendum is taken for granted. when enormous changes are carried out in anticipation of a consent that is yet to be obtained, we can be assured that consent is seen as a mere formality. the report here says that editors and journalists complain about undue political pressure. however, it is silent about how this pressure will allow the referendum to be conducted freely and fairly.
madam president, croatia’s progress towards eu membership continues smoothly, as the report makes clear. british conservatives support the enlargement of the eu to include countries that fully meet the copenhagen criteria, as we believe that a larger eu should result in a more flexible and less centralised union. croatia should be congratulated for its efforts to stamp out corruption, as evidenced by the arrest of former prime minister sanader. i am pleased that slovenia will no longer be blocking croatia’s accession over the two countries’ border dispute. this was always a bilateral issue but should in no way preclude croatia from joining our union. there is also a small dispute with montenegro, for which i am the rapporteur, which will be resolved by the icj. i also believe that croatia’s accession will accelerate the integration of the whole region of the former yugoslavia into the eu, in particular as montenegro’s rapporteur and a strong friend of serbia. i hope that croatian membership will inspire both countries to press ahead with reforms and that croatia will not try and settle old scores, once it is in the union, by blocking serbian accession.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, we are moving into a new era of economic governance. the european semester offers a structure into which the existing tools of the integrated guidelines, provided for under articles 121 and 148 of the treaty, should be incorporated, with the strong involvement of parliament. looking wider, it is in the semester that monitoring of the stability and growth pact and macroeconomic surveillance can join up with the eu 2020 strategy and the integrated guidelines. this means that the semester can provide a coherent framework for the various economic governance processes in the union in a mutually enhancing fashion. more broadly, the committee on economic and monetary affairs emphasises that economic governance must be based on the community method. processes must be transparent and accountable if they are to connect with, and have the support of, citizens. this mandates the involvement of parliament. where parliament already has been given a role, it must have the time required to fulfil its democratic mandate. the committee on economic and monetary affairs stands shoulder to shoulder with the committee on employment and social affairs in pursuing that demand.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group has signed, and will support, this resolution. i am not saying we agree with everything in it, but we endorse the core passage. i want to put this to both commission and council and will read out the headline that we have agreed: ‘a bold single market act and small business act to create jobs’. now where are the jobs going to come from? they are going to come from private investment enterprise and new business start-ups. we already know that small enterprises have been the main engine of job creation over the last decade. my message to both the commission and council today is that all 27 member states have got to start taking job creation enterprise seriously at the level of the single market. we all believe in the single market and member states have invested huge amounts of money and resources in opening up the services market, but have they told their businesses about it? have they promoted the single market? have they encouraged enterprise? have they encouraged online trading? why do they not get down to doing these practical things to unleash the power of what we already have, alongside all the other projects that my colleagues have talked about? they need to start on that tomorrow, today even, rather than talk about some of the other longer-term projects. they should get down to work!
madam president, if we want the eu 2020 strategy to be a success, then the employment guidelines have to be implemented effectively, and national reform programmes put in place and given the priority they actually deserve. we have to make sure that no one is left behind. unemployment rates among older people and disabled people are disgracefully high. i am pleased that both texts refer to the need to implement anti-discrimination laws in the workplace so that jobs are open for all. it is important that the targets we have agreed at eu level are actually achieved. yes, it is up to member states to set specific targets and adhere to them, but the european union has an important role to play in improving the exchange of best practice. that is why i am pleased that paragraph 27 of the committee resolution makes this very clear. we have had months of introspection and debates about what shape the eu 2020 strategy should take, but we have the employment guidelines. now is the time to start delivering on them.
mr president, we now see what is meant by european economic governance, by fiscal federalism. whatever else we say about the leaders of the eu, no-one can fault their lack of ambition. we see here their sheer hunger for power. awesome. inexorable. rude and incontinent. not only are we talking about tax harmonisation, about a european debt union, about automatic fiscal transfers, but we are also talking about the harmonisation of pensions. we are talking about the harmonisation of public sector salaries. we are talking about the full machinery of single eu economic governance. i am sure you can spot the logical flaw here. this is being done as a result of the failure of monetary union. european monetary union has not worked, so let us have european economic and fiscal union. closer integration has failed to deliver, so let us have more integration. in the process, what we are doing is condemning the peoples of several of the member states to preventable poverty and preventable emigration, in order to sustain our own conceit.
mr president, it is quite clear that across the political spectrum we all want adequate, sustainable and safe european pension systems. if we confined ourselves to the idea of making sure that a worker in one state can move to another member state and take their pension with them, that might be a valid idea to pursue. we should, however, be careful about the different structures of pension systems in different member states. some are more private-oriented and some are very much state-funded. as we move towards more harmonised european pension systems, the concern i hear from my constituents is whether they will have to bail out underfunded or badly managed state pension funds in other countries, just as we have had to bail out badly managed countries and their national debt. we talk about sustainable pensions, yet at the same time we bring about policies in this place such as the alternative investment fund managers directive, which will reduce the returns on savings and investments for tomorrow’s pensioners. we must make sure we have a consistent message.
mr president, the history of croatia is in some ways the story of a series of political unions contracted by a ruling elite without the consent of the people: first the union with hungary, then that with the habsburg monarchy, then the short-lived kingdom of serbs, croats and slovenes, and then of course the yugoslav federation. so it is progress of a kind that at least the ordinary people of croatia will have the final word over eu accession. under the current constitutional arrangements, a referendum must be held within 30 days of the contraction of the accession treaty. i think there are real losses potentially to croatia. it is a country with an educated and industrious workforce that could do extremely well pricing itself into the market and exploiting the advantages of relatively cheap exports; but i am a democrat, and of course, if the people of croatia vote in favour of eu accession, if that is their considered will, then i will support their bid when it comes before this chamber. i just raise the question of why some of the existing member states should not also consult their people on the issue of continued membership. on a major constitutional issue of this sort, it seems quite proper that the existing politicians should not be allowed to make permanent derogations of sovereignty without first asking the permission of those they represent. our parliamentarians are not the owners of our freedoms. they are their temporary and contingent custodians and, if they want to alienate power from westminster, they should have the courtesy to ask our permission.
mr president, when i discuss the issue of enlargement with my constituents, many of them raise concerns about some of the previous enlargements. they worry about certain member states that were let in which, they feel, had not addressed issues such as corruption and property rights. i get many letters from constituents from member states who joined many years ago, in particular the rights of property holders in spain, as many of my constituents see their property rights undermined and often lose their life savings. i get similar letters from people in cyprus and from property-owners in bulgaria. leaving that aside, let us look at the picture in croatia at the moment. the issues that people write to me about quite often are those of press freedom, corruption and property rights. it is important that we do not just brush these under the carpet and say ‘do not worry about it; it will all be sorted out in due course’. these countries and new member states which apply for membership of the eu need to reassure us over these concerns so that they are not problems we inherit when the eu enlarges and they do not cause problems for the citizens of existing eu member states.
mr president, i have spent some considerable time in croatia and also taken pains to follow developments there. croatia is a country which is characterised by endemic bribery, corruption, crony capitalism and unexplained wealth amongst the political classes. it lacks the basic infrastructure of a free society. the rule of law, the rights of property and enforceable contracts are all seriously challenged in croatia. the judicial system is completely log-jammed, so the citizens and companies operating in croatia cannot effectively appeal for justice. the croatian media are subject to censorship and intimidation. if this country, croatia, is considered a suitable country for joining the european union, then heaven help all of us.
in writing. − the quality of medicinal products is crucial to ensure safety, and to give peace of mind to consumers. it is clear that there is a rising threat to the health of our constituents as a result of these products flooding the market, especially with falsifications becoming more sophisticated year on year. this is a public health crisis on a global scale. it is currently estimated that perhaps 15% of the global medicine supply is counterfeit, while it is estimated that in some developing countries over 30% of medicines on sale may be counterfeit. the public needs to be 100% sure that the products they consume are safe and fit for purpose. the use of falsified medicines can have a serious detrimental impact on a patient’s health, in some cases leading to death. it is clear that a comprehensive strategy on tackling this issue is vital, both at national and international level, in order to ensure that high standards of public health and safety are maintained.
in writing. − counterfeit medicines are already widespread in the developing world where 20-30% of medicines on the market are fake. they are now being found increasingly in the eu. around 1% of medicines sold in europe are estimated counterfeit. this new agreement, which i welcome, will introduce mandatory safety features, such as seals and serial numbers for prescription medicines. this will allow for their traceability. generics will not be included in the requirements unless a certain product is at exceptional risk of being counterfeited.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to prevent falsified medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain by increasing harmonisation, improving traceability and by ensuring that penalties are dissuasive and effective. patient safety has to be the priority when dealing with medications.
in writing. − small and medium-size enterprises will play a vital role in reinvigorating economies across europe that are currently witnessing economic contraction or, at best, slight economic growth. in my constituency of northern ireland, 98% of all companies can be classified as smes. it is essential that smes are given as much support as possible to play their part in the economic recovery, yet what do they currently face? they face a squeeze from banks when it comes to existing credit and the future credit that is necessary to their existence. the eu must therefore look at ways of encouraging banks to lend whilst ensuring that the mechanisms put in place by the eu to support smes are accessible. the current programmes must be streamlined and simplified, making application and access easier. already burdened by huge amounts of eu red tape, many smes with limited manpower simply do not have the capacity or time to go through the current application processes. some are not even designed with those who are in real need in mind. the programmes in place have the potential to help, but that help must be easier to obtain.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which strongly supports the continued implementation of guarantee instruments in the framework of the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip), the risk-sharing and financing facility under fp7 and the structural funds (jeremie), with the aim of enhancing sme lending, and under the jasmine initiative to support micro-finance institutions; points out that their proper implementation is currently being hindered by overly complex administrative procedures; asks the commission to make it easier to use the structural funds in connection with sme finance instruments, particularly to finance revolving funds for guarantee schemes, whilst avoiding the creation of structures which duplicate existing schemes, e.g. at national level.
in writing. − small and medium enterprises (smes) constitute around 99% of all businesses within the european union, contributing greatly to the european economy through innovation, economic growth and the creation of over 100 million jobs. my vote in favour of this report reflects the importance of enabling smes to function in a manner not over-complicated by regulations, but one which encourages efficiency, flexibility and investment. i recognise that advances have been made to ease the financial and administrative burden on smes, such as the 2010 establishment of the smes finance forum, but urge the commission to do more in order to create a more competitive and accessible economy for the smes which are so vital to the success of europe’s economy. incentives must encourage the necessary reforms to financial systems in member states, investment must be made to nurture innovation in smes and administrative systems must work for, not against, these enterprises helping to create a more stable, more varied european economy.
in writing. − labour meps voted in favour of this non-binding report on pensions and the challenges of aging societies and spending pressures being faced across the eu. we welcome the fact that this report explicitly states that there is no 'one size fits all' approach to pension provision across member states but that the eu can clearly add value in sharing ideas and coordination. we voted to remove from paragraph 8 the inclusion of private debt in the sustainability assessment of public finances, as we feel that current market conditions would not be supported by this kind of assessment. we also maintain concerns over the issue of applying solvency ii-type capital requirements to pensions as this could potentially drive up costs without adding security for the uk's employer-sponsored occupational pensions. the uk's system, including the pension protection funds set up under the labour government, provides a high level of protection to pension scheme members and beneficiaries. labour meps will continue to work to ensure that people who save with the state, with their employer or privately are given the genuine pension protection they need to feel safe about their retirement.
in writing. − i voted for this report which makes it clear at the beginning (paragraph 1) and the end (paragraph 61) that the main responsibility for pensions rests through the subsidiarity principle with the member states, the eu contribution being to provide coordination where possible and the sharing of best practice.
in writing. − i can support the overall objectives of this report as its fundamental concerns are to create a sustainable approach to pension provision. the regulatory exercise which will come about from the green paper will, i believe, bring supervisors up to speed with the necessary consistency to maintain a safe and sustainable pension system. however, given the current diversity in pension systems in member states as well as in scope and depth of pension provision, it is important that the commission follows through on parliament’s wish not to impose capital standards akin to insurance or banking standards. it is my belief that pensions can and should be treated separately for their own capital adequacy requirements. this all said, the need for a truly european approach is paramount, given the way in which demographic trends will force future generations into sustaining expensive schemes, overloaded, with past generations facing potential poverty.
in writing. − mr president, there is much to like in this report. however, i cannot, on balance, support it. it is right that we in this house should have concern for the pension provisions of our member state governments, and it is right that we should share best practice. however, i was simply unable to support the report as a whole because i simply disagree that the eu should have anything beyond an information-sharing role for pensions. the best authorities to deal with pensions, and indeed all social matters, are the national or local authorities, not us. this initiative report calls for too much centralised control, which i am simply unconvinced will either work or add value.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report urging member states to ensure pensions are sustainable in light of the challenges of aging societies and the spending pressures being faced across the eu. i welcome that this report recognises that there is no ‘one size fits all’ approach to pension provision across member states, but that the eu can clearly add value in sharing ideas and coordination. the inclusion of private debt in any assessment of sustainability of public finances should not be included in this report, as current market conditions would not support this kind of assessment. furthermore, applying capital requirements to pensions could potentially drive up costs without adding security for employer-funded occupational pensions. this should not be made compulsory where there is an existing protection scheme; for example the uk’s pension protection fund, set up by the previous labour government, already provides a high level of protection to pension scheme members and beneficiaries. i, and my labour colleagues, will continue to work to ensure that people who save with the state, with their employer or privately are given the genuine pension protection they need to feel safe about their retirement.
in writing. − i voted for this report but retain serious doubts about croatia’s suitability for membership. significant progress needs to be made in a number of areas, not least in tackling corruption.
in writing. − the ecr group is very much in favour of eu enlargement. we believe it is one of the more successful aspects of eu policy, provided it is carried out according to rigorous criteria and that lessons are learned from other recent accessions. for this reason, we voted in favour of this resolution. however, we believe there are serious issues which still need to be resolved before croatia accedes to the eu. corruption and judicial reform have not been properly addressed. we are also concerned about media freedom, the prevalence of organised crime and the massive backlog of court cases. furthermore, there are still unresolved border issues with croatia's neighbours and we do not wish to see these imported into the eu. we do not wish to see croatia then blocking the aspirations of other candidates. we already suffer from examples of this elsewhere.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is welcome that we are actually discussing agriculture and food issues in the middle of the session on a wednesday afternoon rather than at midnight. i very much welcome that. one of the reasons is that the massive volatility that we are witnessing today in food prices has at long last acted as a wake-up call to politicians across europe. over the last 30 years, we have all become complacent as food prices declined year after year after year in real terms. food has never been cheaper than it has been in the last few years. we have come to expect our supermarket shelves to be overloaded and groaning with food 24 hours a day. too much food was thought to be the problem. that dominated the debate up until 2007, rather than the problem being too little. the recent price spikes are a turning point, a sign that the days of plenty may be drawing to a close. our current agricultural production model has been based on cheap energy, an abundance of land and plentiful supplies of water. that model cannot meet the challenges we face in the future. a rising population to 9 billion, growing demand from developing countries and the impact of climate change. as professor john beddington, the uk’s chief scientific officer, recently predicted, unless we take action we face a perfect storm of scarce energy supplies, scarcity of water and food shortages. we need to act now and build a new agricultural model. europe needs to take the lead and the reform of the common agricultural policy gives us the opportunity to map out a sustainable food production system that can meet that huge demand in world food supplies that is going to be needed in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, rising food prices can bring governments to their knees. we have seen that in recent days. i would just like to take us back a little bit. i have been a member of this parliament since 1989. when i came to europe in 1989, we did not have a food problem. we had beef mountains, we had butter mountains, we had milk lakes and we had cereal mountains. now they are all gone and we are not producing enough food fast enough to feed ourselves. so where has the food gone and why have we only a small supply? when a drought in any part of the world can actually cause total confusion in the whole market for everyone else, this is not a situation that we can allow to continue. we have a situation in the european union where farmers are leaving the industry hand over fist in every member state. in actual fact, what we are doing is to encourage them to go even faster, and we have no young farmers coming into the industry. we must act before it is too late to reverse the trend in rising global food prices. this action must be taken sooner rather than later to alleviate the pressure that has been put on ordinary people. shelter for ordinary people can be constructed through a strong common agricultural policy which ensures high-quality food at reasonable prices without negative impacts on the environment. a strong pillar of direct payments is vital for the world and to meet food demands. further steps can be taken to solidify this in the future, which is much needed as far as investment and, indeed, research and development is concerned. hopefully we can find a way to do that. the problem as i see it is that everyone comes here to these debates and makes all the right statements, says all the right platitudes, but they are not prepared to take the tough decisions necessary to help those most in need. i have to say that talking is no longer enough: it is action we need on global stocks and volatility in the market, and until you start to tackle that problem, you will not solve the problem.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, whilst food prices are undoubtedly rising, the situation at the farm gate is very different. british farmers producing beef, sheep meat, pig meat and eggs have actually seen a drop in the value of their produce over the last year; poultry meat is unchanged and milk only marginally higher; sugar beet will fall next year. these businesses are facing huge cost increases themselves and cannot sustain the status quo for more than a few months. then they will either succeed in claiming higher prices from the retailers or they will cease production. either way, retail food prices can only go higher. what is the eu doing about this? well, it is making it unnecessarily expensive to import non-gm soya beans. it is charging farmers a global warming levy on their electricity bills, whilst those same farmers have lost thousands of tons of sugar beet and potatoes in the ground due to very cold weather. the eu wants to increase the public subsidy to organic farming rather than allowing this sector to be consumer-led. any switching of conventional production systems to organic will lead to a reduction in food supplies.
madam president, the main reasons for food inflation have been rising global commodity prices, soaring energy prices and volatility within the marketplace, and there is no doubt that the consumer is suffering. it is, however, the agricultural industry which has been dealing with this for some time, as well as rising feed prices and rising fertiliser prices. profit margins have been reduced and many farmers, especially those in the intensive sectors, face financial ruin. i would ask parliament today to consider the consequences if we did not have support for farmers from the common agricultural policy. what would we be paying for food in that financial climate? i would also urge parliament to consider very strong support for the common agricultural policy in the very important debates that are coming up. it is important that we have a policy that will support farmers and ensure adequate food supply at a fair price. i would also say that fairness is absolutely essential, and in fairness we need transparency within the food supply chain. this will only come, particularly in the united kingdom, if we have a supermarket ombudsman.
madam president, feeding our population has to be the highest duty of government, and indeed feeding our population is the primary objective of the common agricultural policy. food security is our north star and this is an eu success story. it is worth remembering there have been food riots on every continent but ours over the last year, and we are seeing governments fall on a virtually daily basis, it seems, across the rest of the world, while we have at least been able to provide a degree of a safe haven for our citizens so far. so, food security is our priority. you would not think it listening to some of the ngos and lobbyists and, indeed, some of the politicians who have been involved in the debate about the reform of the common agricultural policy going forward. food security must be our focus and must be our priority, and i would disagree on one point with colleagues. i do not believe that free trade is the answer. i do not believe that global food security is something that we can achieve or should strive for. export bans caused by countries seeking to feed themselves are not, in themselves, unjustifiable, and i would quote the english president of the national farmers union, if you would forgive me briefly: ‘if we are talking about morality, a country seeking to feed itself is nothing compared to rich countries allowing their agriculture to decline and then expecting the rest of the world to feed them. we have a responsibility to lead the world in producing more, not less’.
madam president, by the time i sit down, 16 people will have died of starvation. that is about the size of that part of the chamber over there. every day 36 000 people die of starvation around the world because they do not have enough food to eat. the european union was self-sufficient in food until recently. now it is importing food. it is actually taking food away from the poorest people’s mouths. i am told that the eu is importing from the rest of the world an amount of food that would take about 35 million hectares of land to grow. we should be self-sufficient in food, and we should help the developing countries to be self-sufficient in food. there is an answer to all this. in the 1960s in india, there was a revolution in green agriculture under professor borlaug. people said that india would starve. india did not starve. brazil is now self-sufficient in food. we can do it if we have the will.
madam president, for the past 30 years food prices have been both low and stable. now, the united nations fao has warned that rising energy costs, growing world population, greater wealth and climate change are about to present huge challenges to the world food system and to the cost of food. this will have two important consequences on european governments. first, the rising cost of food and energy hits the very poorest families hardest. second, at a time when europeans most need a period of price stability while the economy recovers, rising food prices will fuel inflation. in the short term, the temptation will be to import cheaper food and to expect the food and farming industry to absorb the greater cost. neither route would be wise. over-reliance on imported food would dangerously expose consumers to price volatility, and over-pressuring the farming sector, which already faces steep cost increases and depressed margins, would endanger productive capacity. we need to invest in the common agricultural policy. technology will be the key and now is the right time to do this.
madam president, the relentless increase in the price of oil and its consequent upward pressure on fertiliser prices, together with swingeing increases in the price of wheat, maize and other cereals, is creating a crisis in our farm sector, as well as a growing global crisis. it is worth remembering that the uprising in tunisia which set off the domino effect across the entire middle east began with the self-immolation of a poor street food trader. europe’s farmers can make a positive intervention in helping to resolve this crisis if they are provided with the appropriate tools. it is time we grasped the opportunities provided by biotechnology to help us meet growing demand for quality food products. more than 125 million hectares of gm crops are being grown commercially worldwide by more than 13 million farmers, and yet we do not mention biotechnology in this resolution. wake up and smell the coffee, europe, before we have food riots on our streets!
madam president, let me make it absolutely clear that i speak on behalf of those in the developing world and not in defence of the common agricultural policy. according to the world bank, over 44 million people have been plunged into dire poverty as a result of rising food prices. there are a myriad of contributory factors – fewer smallholdings, deforestation, desertification, lack of access to water and climate change. hence, we need a holistic approach to ensure that we encourage people to take care of their own development needs and to ensure food security at local level. we need to reform the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy so that there are no direct or indirect negative impacts on the developing and developed countries. we must promote local land ownership and, finally, we must strip away the obscenity of land grab, whereby land is bought and used by foreign investment companies and foreign companies for their own needs. there is no defence for this obscenity.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, during the first thirty years of israel’s existence, egypt was its implacable foe. for the past thirty years, the two countries have, mercifully, been at peace. it is hard to overemphasise how important the camp david accords are to israel’s security. israelis are really afraid that the radical muslim brotherhood will indeed fill the vacuum created by the egyptian revolution. it is bad enough that israel faces the terrorist threat of hezbollah on the lebanese border, the fanatics of hamas launching rockets from gaza and the existentialist threat from a nuclear-armed iran. however, an islamist takeover in egypt would almost certainly result in the revocation of the egypt-israel peace treaty and the opening of the rafah border to hamas. the eu should make our help conditional on preserving the peace treaty, and not countenance supporting any political developments in egypt that threaten the security of our strategic ally. supporting a democratic egypt is incredibly important for us, and the economic challenges are massive. i fully support the idea of mobilising loan finance from the eib and ebrd, as suggested by the high representative yesterday in the financial times. our political parties and groups in europe must also help set up secular, pluralist, democratic sister parties in egypt to compete freely in elections in six months time, when the military will hopefully leave power. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, this debate is about how we helped egypt. of course, i emphasise the need to also help our strategic ally, israel. i do not need to debate now why israel is our ally, why it shares our common democratic values, why the security wall has actually reduced terrorist attacks and suicide bombers by over 90%, or why israel has a free press and has free elections, unlike any of its neighbours. that is a debate for another time. all i am saying at this stage is that the peace treaty with israel is essential for regional stability and security and, of course, you must remember that the eu is a very big player within the quartet.
mr president, i am delighted that the high representative will be the first and most senior foreign diplomat to visit egypt, and following this debate she will take with her parliament’s support for the immediate release of political prisoners, for legal accountability for those responsible for the violent suppression of peaceful protest and for an asset freeze and other actions for the authors of past human rights abuse. commissioner, this was the social media revolution, planned in an internet cafe, with wael ghonim of google one of its heroes. but companies like vodafone must learn the lesson of turning off their services and we should call on them to join the global network initiative alongside human rights organisations to show that they will defend the principle of freedom of expression where it is under threat. finally, this parliament was shy of discussing tunisia; we debated tunisia as egyptians took to the streets and today debate egypt when perhaps we should be asking ourselves how we can better support democratic transition now in yemen, syria, libya and elsewhere in the arab world before people have to die in the streets of their capitals to shame europe and the world into so doing.
mr president, today we are having a very different debate to the one that took place only a matter of days ago in this chamber. it is essential that the people of egypt should know that we are standing by them. i welcome the fact that our high representative is currently in that part of the world. the people of egypt are now reliant upon the army to come forward and deliver free and fair elections, to bring about the sort of society that they have paid for with their lives and blood. it is now for the international community to make sure that we step in to help them build their institutions and allow the political parties to come forward and take part in those election processes. i hope that the european union will play its part in that. finally, commissioner, the siphoning-off of funds by leaders in developing countries is something we are only too well aware of. it is about time that europe said that we refuse to be used as a vehicle for such people to park their funds any more.
mr president, colleagues will have received an e-mail from me on monday describing my experiences during an informal visit to cairo last weekend. it was a privilege to be there as vice-president for democracy and human rights. mr kasoulides referred to the role of young people in the recent revolution in egypt. he is absolutely right. they played a fundamental role. i spoke just a few moments ago to one of the organisers and said, ‘are you still optimistic?’ he said, ‘of course i am. things are going in the right direction.’ but there are problems. the timetable for elections is wrong and the timetable for reforming the constitution is far too short. we need much more time. we are talking about egypt, but this process is spreading. it is like 1989 and the european union needs special procedures – this house, the commission, the council, the eas – and we welcome cathy ashton’s down payment for democracy, but we need to do more. we need to reward reform. as i said in cairo on sunday – and i hope to be saying it among other peoples – ‘i am not here as a briton or as a european, i am here as an honorary egyptian.’ i still am.
mr president, i would like to say to my friend mr zala that i very much benefited from what he has said about his personal experience of being in a revolution. mr zala, there are two questions in this debate i would like your views on. to the people on the ground, if foreign countries fail to speak out for democracy, does that not help extremism, rather than hinder it? if foreign countries do speak out for democracy, is that seen as interference and inappropriate? i would appreciate your views.
mr president, at the beginning of this debate, the commissioner praised the courage of the young people who took to the streets in egypt and tunisia and created the uprising. hundreds of thousands took to the streets in teheran and other cities in iran on monday and were brutally suppressed. they were crushed. one young student was killed. others have been tortured and taken to prison where they will no doubt be executed for trying to rise up against that fascist regime. why do we never say anything to encourage them? why are we like rabbits caught in the headlights when it comes to dealing with the mullahs in teheran? why do we say nothing to condemn the brutal psychological torture and siege of the 3 400 opposition iranians in camp ashraf? it is time we took action and showed that we support the iranian opposition.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the socialist and democrat group of course welcome the advance in the four key areas of balanced information, the country-of-origin principle, and so on. commissioner, of course we welcome it. that was the text of our resolution; that was the pressure we were placing on you and the hungarian authorities to deliver. first of all, i have to ask you about the timing. was it purely coincidence, as you were waiting in the airport as you said, or was it the fact that pressure by this parliament has brought forward four key amendments in the four key areas we asked for? please let us know those concessions have been secured. of course the parliament has still not been able to see the text of the negotiations between the commission and the hungarian authorities; therefore we require more time to fully state our position on the matter. however, it seems clear that negotiations have not fully addressed many other serious concerns of this parliament and, of course, of our socialist and democrat group. crucial issues still unanswered include the composition and time frame of the media authority and of the media council, which are politically homogenous and still exert pervasive and centralised governmental, judicial and political control on all media. we need answers on where we go on this crucial issue. furthermore, it is regrettable that the commission has not acted upon the recommendations of parliament, the council of europe, the commissioner, and the osce for example, on the violation of the principle of confidentiality of journalistic sources, extremely disproportionate sanctions, and abolishing the political and financial independence of public service broadcast media. there is a list, commissioner, which you know of, which still needs to be answered and we need these questions to be answered, preferably in this debate. obviously we commend the hungarian authority’s willingness to amend the legislation. we also encourage the implementation of amendments to address the outstanding areas of concern for all of us in this parliament, whilst fully embracing the spirit of the european charter of fundamental rights and, in particular, article 11, which protects the freedom of expression. we would like further answers on whether you believe article 11 has been fulfilled. we must involve civil society and stakeholders to uphold principles of transparency and accountability and to ensure best practice. commissioner, we tabled a resolution for our group because we wanted the concessions that you have already announced, but we want more. democracies are built upon the principle of a free and independent media. we make no apologies within our group for firmly defending this principle and we will do everything in our power to protect it, for hungarians and all eu citizens.
mr president, one of the accounts of the hungarian press law, says that it prescribes ‘balanced coverage’, which sounds all right on the face of it. another account says that it fines publications for violating ‘public interest, public morals or order’. now these concepts do sound very vague, meaningless and therefore dangerous; almost as dangerous as concepts like xenophobia and racism, and whoever would think of legislating against them? however, before we cast stones at hungary, let us look at the standards and broadcasting media in our own countries. the bbc, also known as the british brainwashing corporation, acts in contempt of its charter’s obligations of impartiality, and it excludes representatives of our own party, whilst giving gratuitously excessive publicity to the establishment safety valve party. our party is significant enough to be attacked routinely, but not significant enough to be invited on the programmes. in 2006 it colluded with the government to trap our chairman into a jail.
rapporteur. − mr president, this fta is the first of a new generation of trade agreements launched in 2007 as part of the global europe initiative. global economy, instability and a stagnated mutlilateral system have strengthened the need and pursuit for increased bilateral relations. it is the first fta in which the parliament will exercise its new enhanced powers given to it by the lisbon treaty. the fta is designed to provide eu businesses, in a wide variety of economic sectors, with extensive and comprehensive access to the south korean market through a series of unprecedented tariff liberalisations. it guarantees wto-plus disciplines in the case of, for example, geographical indicators, government procurement, greater transparency of state aid and strong enforcement of intellectual property rights, and contains an all-important chapter on sustainable development. however, while the many advantages are both immediate and conspicuous, i welcome more than anything else the fact that the fta has an effective bilateral safeguard mechanism – a safeguard that allows the eu to restore mfn duty rates, should it be that this particular fta has led to or threatens to cause serious injury to eu domestic industry. it is a safeguard that specifically addresses the concerns of europe’s sensitive sectors, including the auto industry, consumer electronics and textiles, and guarantees the protection they deserve. on this note i would like to thank pablo zalba bidegain for the work that he did on this specific part of the agreement. the south korea market offers significant new opportunities for eu goods and services. it is a market that until now has remained relatively closed off, due to high tariff levies and costly non-tariff barriers. the fta will quickly remove eur 1.6 billion worth of eu export duties levied annually. there will be benefits for eu exporters of industrial and agricultural products, immediate savings on chemicals – approximately eur 175 million –pharmaceuticals, auto parts, industrial machinery, and the list goes on. it is also worth noting that these figures quoted will probably be even higher, because of the increased trade. korea is currently among those more globally valuable export markets for eu farmers, with annual sales of over eur 1 billion to korea. the fta fully liberalises nearly all the eu’s agricultural exports. exports are thus an important source of growth for the eu. they contribute to wealth and employment for european businesses and their employees and will act as one of the most important factors in stimulating the eu economic recovery. the commission and the european car association have worked closely together to get this agreement. the world is watching as europe leads the way in improving trade and economic relations, with partners in every corner of the world looking at it. i have always said that trade is the real means of development. by removing barriers to trade and building new bridges we create new opportunities. this particular fta offers a new approach. complementary, of course, to doha, it will drive europe’s recovery and growth and the european parliament will be instrumental in determining the future of global trade policy. at this stage i would like to thank ignacio from the commission. one of the economists said, ignacio, that this is probably the best trade agreement that both parties could ever have agreed. i urge all groups to put aside protectionism and support this agreement.
mr president, a free trade agreement cannot only be about tariffs. it also has to be about intellectual property rights. a business in my constituency, avon protection, is a world leader in the manufacture of gas masks. avon believes that its patents have been infringed by a south korean firm making what are quite simply copies. there is meant to be patent protection in south korea, but will a korean court really find in favour of a british company against a korean business? for free trade to work, there has to be a level playing field and, yes, a safeguard clause such as pablo zalba bidegain’s is useful, but the other signatory must also ensure that the agreement is indeed a two-way street, otherwise the free trade agreement which should benefit both parties simply becomes completely one-sided.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner also. the whole process has been excellent. over the years i have worked on a number of codecision procedures and i have to say this has been one of the best. the debate among my shadow rapporteurs has been phenomenal. we have had extremely good input from virtually everybody. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr moreira, the chair. without his expertise, i do not think we would have got a satisfactory conclusion on the comitology issue – a particularly difficult sticking point towards the end of the negotiations. there have been a number of issues raised today. i would just like to say to mr jadot: i think your pig producers in brittany may well benefit significantly hopefully, yannick, because pig producers across europe are having a bad time. i only pick on that because i am involved in agriculture. as i said, the quality of the debate has been excellent. there always will be two views and mr susta is absolutely right: there is always a split between the protectionist and the free marketeer. i would just say that we cannot stick our head in the sand and close the door and expect the world not to move on without us, because it will move on without us. we live in a global market, whether we like it or not. there are problems with that but it is a fact. i believe quite strongly that this offers huge opportunities for the european union to move out of its problems with the financial crisis. we have set a standard for future agreements. however, they will not be as easy as this one. i am sure that we will move onto other far more difficult ones and we look forward to working with the commission on that. i would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate tonight. it has been excellent and it shows how comprehensive this house can be.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (thursday, 17 february 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0009/2011). the following questions are addressed to the council.
i just wonder whether my colleagues would agree with me how disappointing it is that there has not been much support for a written declaration which is being sponsored by my colleague from the west midlands, malcolm harbour, who is the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. today he sent out an email saying that only 184 of the 736 colleagues have signed this. does this show that, when it comes to small businesses throughout the european union, cooperation is not possible and in effect it is up to the member states to take care of their own small businesses?
that is right, but i am going to allow mr chountis a supplementary on this question.
mr chountis, i am aware of your complaint, which i completely support. however, it is not the bureau that makes the decisions about the timing of debates, the content of debates or speaking time – it is the conference of presidents, bizarrely, which always tries to put too much on the agenda. it is the bureau members, including myself, who have to deal with the problems this creates and clean up the mess. i apologise to everyone who was not called. as mrs győri quite rightly says, any questions she has not had time to answer tonight – and those which she has answered she has answered very ably – will be answered in writing. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, up to now the professionals who run the european investment bank have operated the bank with a culture of financial probity. loans have been made, and guarantees provided, on a prudent basis, and that is why the european investment bank has had very few bad loans on its books. however, what this report aims to do is to dilute the professional culture of the european investment bank and expand its remit to encompass a series of policy objectives. the commissioner made this very clear. a relaxation of the commercial criteria on which the bank has operated up to now will inevitably result in the guarantee being called on. now this will cost the taxpayer, and i have to question, once again, whether the hard-pressed taxpayers of europe and the uk really want their money to be used to advance purely political objectives outside the eu?
member. − mr president, i would ask the speaker to consider how much all this costs the taxpayer.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when guaranteeing loans of this kind for projects inside or, indeed, outside the eu, we need to remember that they are not without financial consequences. while it may seem like a good way of making eu money go further, we must be very careful to ensure that the appropriate risk-management controls are in place to manage these kinds of loans and the balance-sheet implications they pose. as parliamentarians we need to be fully aware of the liabilities to which we are exposing the eu budget and, therefore, member states’ budgets. oversight systems and transparency will be crucial when using the balance sheet for leverage, as has been shown by the financial crisis, where banks were not always fully aware of the extent of their liabilities. we must learn the lessons from the finance industry and be sure that we know precisely what the eu is guaranteeing and what appropriate levels of democratic oversight are being maintained. fundamentally, we must be sure that those individuals at the eib and the commission who are tasked with managing these financial products and making such wide-ranging decisions have the appropriate expertise to manage what they are dealing with. this is taxpayers’ money. we need to spend it carefully.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european investment bank uses public funds from the nations of europe to guarantee loans, either to financial intermediaries or to the ultimate recipients in 74 countries. when compared to other international institutions performing similar functions, the eib’s reputation is not one of transparency, and the public disclosure policy still does not cover appraisal reports. in particular, in the case of eib lending which is meant to go to smes via intermediary banks, the public still does not know where the money is going. this report fails to demand disclosure by those intermediary banks. bearing in mind that the eib is making loans that are guaranteed by the eu, whose budget is financed by the european taxpayers, i encourage you all to vote against this report, which fails to adequately protect taxpayers’ interests.
author. − mr president, i should like to welcome the commissioner to the world of politics, where no one is interested in what the commission gets right, but is only interested in what it gets wrong. this is a very good initiative, but parliament, as mr de jong says, has some concerns. we have to ensure that expert groups are open to wider groups that can at least apply to get onto these expert working groups, and obtain information on how to do so. we need to instil confidence in the expert working groups. to do that, we must have absolute transparency and, as has been said, they must not be dominated by big business, because this leads to the accusation of there being vested interests, and that undermines the work of the commission and the work of the expert groups. i say this as the rapporteur on the original regulation on public access to documents, which we implemented in this house in 2001. as you well know, commissioner, the whole principle of openness and taking decisions as closely to the citizens as possible emanates from the amsterdam treaty. we put this into practice with regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which is currently under revision. i would have thought that this would have presented a good opportunity for the framework programme on expert groups to be introduced into the regulation – the recast proposal of 2008, which interestingly parliament does not accept. you will notice that mrs macovei is in the chamber. she has a great history of challenging for greater openness and transparency. most political groups attach high importance to this. i would like to know why parliament was not consulted. is the commission going to open a website giving greater information as to how citizens’ representatives and civil societies can become engaged? if not, why not? as i said at the very beginning, commissioner, welcome to the world of politics, where everyone is obsessed with what has not been done rather than with what has been achieved.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, last october this parliament introduced six new directives giving the eu powers to regulate the uk financial industry. on 7 february, i submitted a written question to the commission advising it of one aspect of the uk companies act 1976. section 27 of the act gives a significant exemption to just one company, the bank of england nominees limited. this exemption means that the identities of the shareholders of the bank of england are kept secret. i have asked the commission if this exemption contravenes eu law and if the new regulatory bodies will have the power to require the disclosure of the names of the bank of england’s shareholders. of course, i and my party do not want any eu law, but the commission and the british government do. presumably then, the commission should ensure that its law is equally, consistently and transparently applied throughout its empire.
mr president, the figaro newspaper this morning reports that last week a journalist not only entered the european parliament with an imitation gun, but was also able to get extremely close to prince charles, the next british head of state. given the ongoing concerns about security in this house, can you assure us today that you are taking these matters seriously, and that the so-called review being conducted in secret by parliament’s bureau will not merely be a tinkering exercise, but a root-and-branch reform of security?
rapporteur. − mr president, i know everybody wants to rush off, but i just want to thank the commission and the shadow rapporteurs on this. this is a ground-breaking free trade agreement, which is outstanding. parliament has a huge opportunity to support it and to put forward wonderful ideas for the future.
in writing. − i voted for the zalba bidegain report on a bilateral safeguard clause in the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of south korea because it adequately protects the increase in trade with korea that is brought about by the free trade agreement. the bilateral safeguard mechanism will permit the eu to revert to the prior mfn rates of duty if this agreement even threatens to damage our industry. this free trade agreement opens up our service industry, agriculture and manufacturing industries to increased access to the large and growing korean market.
in writing. − ukip wants the uk to leave the european union and retain friendly trading links through a uk-eu free trade agreement, similar to that with non-eu switzerland and norway. i voted in favour of this eu-south korea free trade agreement as it can be a model and a template for a future uk-eu free trade agreement, and because it demonstrates that tariff-free and favourable trading access to the eu can be achieved without the uk (or south korea) being a member of the eu. this is especially true in the case of the uk, which would be the eu’s largest single trading partner. a uk-eu free trade agreement would be likely merely to replicate existing trading arrangements with the uk as a member of the eu, and would therefore require far less negotiation (e.g. over tariff reductions) than did the agreement with south korea.
in writing. − ukip desires to leave the european union and retain friendly trading links through a uk/eu free trade agreement, similar to that of non-eu switzerland and norway. i voted in favour of this south korea/eu free trade agreement as it can be a model and a template for a future uk/eu free trade agreement, and as it demonstrates tariff-free and favourable trading access to the eu can be achieved without the uk (or south korea) being a member of the eu. this is especially the case for the uk, which is the largest single trading partner with the eu. a uk/eu free trade agreement would be likely merely to replicate existing trading arrangements with the uk as a member of the eu, and would need therefore far less negotiation (e.g. over tariff reductions) than those with south korea.
in writing. − i welcome this regulation, which incorporates a bilateral safeguard clause into the eu-south korea free trade agreement providing for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate when, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase to such an extent – in absolute terms or in relation to domestic production – and take place under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the eu industry producing a similar or directly competing product. for such measures to become operational, the safeguard clause must be incorporated into eu law, not least because the procedural aspects of the imposition of safeguard measures, as well as the rights of interested parties, need to be specified. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council for which i voted provided the legal instrument required for implementation of the safeguard clause in the eu-korea free trade agreement.
in writing. − i voted against the kalfin report on granting eu guarantees to the eib against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the eu. i am not satisfied with the level of transparency in lending to smes via intermediary financial institutions. it is not enough that only the eib knows who gets these monies. these are very large loans that are being used ostensibly to further eu policy abroad and the taxpayer, who is the ultimate guarantor, has the right to know who the recipients are. some of these loans go to worthy causes but, in this day and age, the taxpayer must know what is being done in his name and why.
in writing. − i voted for the kalfin report on the new external mandate of the european investment bank (eib), providing for an increase in its budget from eur 27.8 billion to eur 29.567 billion until the end of 2013 and expanding its fields of competence to climate change action and the advancement of development goals for countries outside the eu. i believe the eib should focus much more attention on social problems and building capacity in the countries in which it operates.
in writing. − i voted for the sturdy report recommendation on the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of south korea because it will increase trade and is advantageous to the united kingdom and the other twenty six european nations. the most important factor in this agreement is the safeguard clause without which i could not have voted for it. the bilateral safeguard mechanism will permit the eu to revert to the prior mfn rates of duty if this agreement even threatens to damage our industry. the agreement opens up our service industry, agriculture and manufacturing industries to increased access to the large and growing korean market.
in writing. − i warmly welcome the approval of the eu-korea free trade agreement. the deal is expected to more than double bilateral trade in the next 20 years. import duties will be eliminated on 98% of all products and other non-tariff barriers will be removed over the next five years. the agreement includes important social, labour and environmental standards, and i hope the implementation of these will be closely monitored.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, although i cannot quite get the strong smell of hypocrisy, on the part of the eu institutions, out of my nostrils.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which: points out that, from an ecological point of view, central and south-eastern europe is one of the richest but at the same time one of the most vulnerable areas of europe, characterised by an ecosystem of high ecological complexity and great value, therefore requiring a high level of protection; welcomes the aim of the european strategy for the danube region to create a liveable, sustainable and at the same time developed, prosperous danube region by managing environmental risks, such as floods and industrial pollution, preserving the quality and quantity of water reserves and ensuring their sustainable use, and preserving biodiversity, landscapes and the quality of air and soils; stresses that protecting the environment in the danube basin is an important aspect which should stimulate responsible agricultural and rural development of the region; calls for improvements to the ecological status of the danube, and for measures to reduce pollution and to prevent further releases of oil and other toxic and harmful substances; stresses that a good ecological status of the danube is a prerequisite for all human activity along the river and recommends that the environmental targets should be considered in particular
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which condemns the fact that, in russia, independent journalists, civil society activists, lawyers and human rights defenders have often been the victims of threats and acts of violence and in addition that the anti-extremist legislation and the new provisions of the law on the federal security service (fsb) are unclear and, as a result, are often used to harass ngos, religious minorities and media organisations.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution, which welcomes the world bank's energy strategy and recalls that it should specifically address how access to energy can help lift people out of poverty, while facilitating the shift to an environmentally sustainable energy development path; urges the world bank to pursue an approach to private-sector development that delivers maximum benefit to the poor while tackling climate change; and underlines that environmental and social factors, at both national and local community levels, must be taken into account in a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy options.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which underlines that the europe 2020 actions are of crucial importance to the future prospects of all european citizens, delivering sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth, and social progress; fears that the europe 2020 strategy will not be able to deliver on its promises due to its weak governance structure, and strongly urges the council, therefore, to strengthen the community method; reiterates the importance of integrating the eu 2020 goals into the economic governance framework and calls for the european semester to be part of the legislative governance package, while including national parliaments and social partners at an early stage in order to foster democratic accountability, ownership and legitimacy; stresses that the achievement of europe 2020 is essential and not optional.
in writing. − the commission’s eu2020 strategy is essential in order to enhance the eu’s growth and competitiveness as it emerges from the economic crisis. however, its objectives can only be achieved with a coordinated and focused approach from all member states. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu2020 strategy because i believe that it sets out the need for member states to be completely committed to the strategy’s targets. the resolution calls for the economic governance of the eu2020 strategy to be better coordinated and i fully support this because it outlines the need for a credible funding framework to be established by national governments. member states should also ensure that policies, as well as budgets, are aligned with eu2020 targets, especially with regards to objectives such as tackling unemployment and social inclusion. i also welcome the resolution’s proposals that the next multiannual financial framework should reflect eu2020 ambitions.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which stresses the importance of policies facilitating the transition of young people from school to work; stresses that it is clear that early school leavers are a group at high risk of poverty, and emphasises that any flexible or temporary forms of work used in this context should incorporate the right to training and access to social security and ensure that people make the transition into more secure employment.
in writing. − i voted for this report. following the assessment of preliminary national reform programmes (nrps) presented by the member states under the europe 2020 strategy, and in parallel with the presentation of the first annual growth survey, the commission adopted on 12 january a proposal for a council decision that suggested confirming the validity, for 2011, of the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines of the member states adopted in 2010. this proposal takes account of the fact that the new europe 2020 integrated guidelines are to be fully transposed into the policy measures and sequencing of the reforms of the member states to be presented in the final nrps due in april 2011. furthermore, the commission's proposal is based on the commitment included in the employment guidelines of 2010 to keep the guidelines stable, as far as possible, until 2014 so that the member states can focus on their implementation
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on rising food prices. according to the resolution, food prices have reached the highest levels since the food and agriculture organisation (fao) started recording them in 1990. anger over soaring food prices has led to great unrest in a number of countries. a crucial cause has been speculation by traders and brokers who have no commercial interest in these markets. action must be taken to fight against the excesses of speculation on commodity markets.
in writing. − the eplp is supportive of the resolution drafted in response to the current steep food price hikes we are seeing and their impact on global food security. the most recent price increases bring to the fore many of the concerns the eplp have long held over distortions in the food supply chain, the role speculation can play in exacerbating the situation and the lack of agricultural investment in many developing countries to build up production capacities. the eplp is supportive of the need for a global response to the food security challenge but would also like to stress the role an ambitiously reformed cap can play in helping to address this challenge. a reformed cap must be in line both with global food security and development policy objectives, abolishing once and for all export refunds, that undermine the ability of developing countries to build up their own agricultural production, limiting market intervention mechanisms, which also serve to distort the market and promoting sustainable agricultural production to help both the agricultural sector mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the eu's natural resource base and food production capacity.
in writing. − i supported the resolution drafted in response to rising food prices, which are having an impact on global food security. the most recent price increases highlight many of concerns relating to distortions in the food supply chain, the role speculation can play in exacerbating the situation and the lack of agricultural investment in many developing countries to build up production capacities. we need a global response to the food security challenge but also to stress the role an ambitiously reformed cap can play in helping to address this challenge. a reformed cap must be in line with global food security and development policy objectives, abolishing once and for all export refunds that undermine the ability of developing countries to build up their agricultural production. promotion of sustainable agricultural production is necessary in order to help the agricultural sector both mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the eu’s natural resource base and food production capacity.
author. − mr president, for us in the european union, the idea of taking military action over border disputes is now thankfully unimaginable. however, this is sadly not the case on the border between thailand and cambodia, whose armies have clashed several times in the past couple of weeks over a disputed, tiny, part of their border near to an ancient temple. aid agencies report that some 30 000 people have been displaced by the fighting, so it is hardly surprising in such circumstances that innocent civilians have been killed, although both sides contest the actual numbers. cambodia’s prime minister, hun sen, has referred to the clashes as a ‘real war’. such bellicose and incendiary rhetoric can only make matters worse. the short-term solution to this dispute lies in the hands of both governments and the un security council, which should take the lead in imposing solutions to de-escalate the crisis. in the longer term it is to be hoped that further asean regional integration will help to make such clashes a thing of the past, as has been the case here in the eu for decades.
author. − mr president, yemen is a state party to the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights, both of which expressly prohibit the execution of juvenile offenders – those convicted of crimes committed when the perpetrators were under the age of 18. the impending execution of muhammed samoum, and indeed the detention on death row of several other juvenile offenders, is an affront to international law. by pursuing such policies, on the bizarre excuses of the accused not having proper birth certificates or of uncertainty about their age, yemen is aligning itself with the brutal theocracy of iran. however, the difference between the two countries is that yemen receives massive aid from the west, including the eu, in order to root out al-qaeda terrorists, whereas iran is an international pariah. therefore, we have considerable leverage here in the eu over president ali abdullah saleh. i urge the high representative to take all possible steps to persuade him to grant clemency in this case. having announced that he will shortly relinquish his post, president saleh has a real chance now to leave a positive and enlightened legacy in his country, which has been brutalised by conflict and terrorism for so long and now dreams of a democratic future.
author. − mr president, the murder of david kato is the direct result of the hatred and hostility towards uganda’s lgbt community, whipped up by certain hard-line parliamentarians in that country. twice in the past year we have lambasted the outrageous attempts by some mps in uganda to mandate the death penalty for the so-called crime of same-sex activity. it is inevitable that in a climate of such bigotry the lives of gay rights activists would be endangered, and so it has sadly proved to be the case with david kato. he knew the risks of publicly defending gays. he and other alleged homosexuals were outed last year by a newspaper which printed their photos next to a headline which said, disgracefully, ‘hang them’. i am sure that many of my london constituents are deeply concerned about the european union giving financial aid to a country where such disgusting sentiments are not only tolerated but sometimes apparently officially condoned. i hope that parliament’s delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament will consider carefully what action it can take to register our anger and disgust at mr kato’s murder and, more generally, to underline that the eu’s continuing engagement and financial aid to african countries must be reciprocated with progress on fundamental human rights on that continent.
author. − mr president, it is always a sad moment when we have to pass a resolution on the death of a human rights defender. for me it is even sadder because, like others in this house, i met him when he came to parliament to plead for it to act on behalf of those living in uganda. as a gay man, can i personally thank this house for the way it has united in this resolution in saying that hatred against lesbian, gay and bisexual people, and the diminishing of their human rights, is totally unacceptable. the justice that we can give david kato is not only to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice for the crime that they have committed – the senseless murder of this young man. the real issue is that in the continent of africa, as mr tannock quite rightly said, on issues of human rights and civil liberties, we have given our colleagues too far and too easy a ride on these vital matters. the best thing that can come from this is that the colonialism that we imposed through our laws, and sometimes through our religion, can actually end in the repeal of the law in the 38 countries that criminalise homosexuality and bring to an end the death penalty in somalia, mauritania, sudan and northern nigeria. that would be a memorial not only to david kato, a giant amongst the pygmies who preach prejudice and persecution. it would also be a memorial to this parliament speaking up for those who have no voice.
mr president, i would just like to make a point of order before i go on to my speech. this is the third time that we have been promised speaking time but then not been listed. just because we are independent members of this house, it does not mean that we do not have a say as well. going on to my speech as i wish to give it, i would like to take the time to commend the late david kato for his brave work in uganda, for defending not just his rights, but also the rights of other lgbt people in uganda, and indeed of those in africa. it is only too sad that, although he came to this parliament last october, we obviously did not heed his warnings – nor did the international community – and now he has been killed. i find it unbelievable that the european union is still giving aid to uganda. i would hope that, after the elections in the next couple of days, we will review that. i hope that, if there is no amnesty for people being prosecuted for lgbt offences, we would withdraw all aid. i would just like to make one final point. it is very sad that the current presidency of the european union, the hungarians, have decided to ban an lgbt pride march this june. what message does that send out ... ? (the president cut off the speaker).
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the theory of a tobin tax has been around for years – the idea of a global tax on foreign exchange – but of course it has never seen the light of day. what is being proposed here – and of course it is because the european union is so desperate for money and is in so much trouble that it needs its own resources – is to use an opportunity to bash the financial sector because they are very unpopular at the moment and to introduce a financial transaction tax just in the european union, as if somehow that will gain us great revenue. i am sorry, but we are living in a global economy. if we become uncompetitive through tax or regulation, people simply move – and they can do so in the space of 24 hours. to do this would be to pursue kamikaze economics. the biggest foreign exchange market in the world – the biggest financial sector in the world – is in london. if i did not know better, i would think perhaps there was a plot afoot here to stop the anglo-saxons going on doing all of their business. in 2010, as a result of the aifm directive, one in four hedge funds left the city of london. if we continue down this route, britain will have lost its biggest single industry. i think the time has come when the city of london and britain’s financial markets are going to rise up against membership of this european union. maybe, if we vote for this tomorrow, it will be so bad that it will be really rather a good thing for ukip and our view that we should not be part of this massive socialist experiment.
mr president, the european union has wanted to fund itself with a european tax for some time now. it seems its preference would be for a financial transaction tax. it is estimated that this would generate eur 200 billion per annum. i strongly oppose a new tax levied by the european union, fundamentally because this would allow the european commission to decide on the size and composition of the eu budget without any say on the part of the member states and their citizens. worse, it would deprive the member states of the possibility of calling the eu bureaucracy to account. if it is introduced at national level to control risk in the financial services industry, the costs will inevitably be passed on to the tax payer. while there is a feeling that the financial services and banking sector should meet the bill for the crisis, we should not cheat our citizens by imposing on them an additional fiscal burden.
mr president, i rise to speak in favour of the financial transaction tax (ftt). the ftt provides an opportunity to redress the balance and the damage caused by the austerity measures, the deficit and the measures adopted to repay it. it is important, though, to introduce taxation which is relevant to the current circumstances since, in the uk for example, barclays bank only paid gbp 113 million in corporation tax in 2009, at well below the uk rate of 28%, while the royal bank of scotland allocated eur 25 billion to tax avoidance schemes that year and cost the british and us exchequer eur 500 million in lost revenue. in the uk, a group has been formed to support the ftt. it is called the robin hood tax group, after the legendary figure who stole from the rich and gave to the poor. i support its campaign and i urge parliament to do likewise.
mr president, i want to thank our rapporteur for this report and to focus my comments on responding to the public’s call for fair taxation on the financial services sector. we should remind ourselves that citizens have already provided a massive taxpayer bail-out of eur 4.5 trillion of state aid to the banking sector – eur 9 500 per man, woman and child in the eu – and of course the public are continuing to pay with the loss of their jobs during this extreme financial crisis. now that this sector has returned to profit and is paying out large bonuses (in fact that is how, mr hökmark, they can recapitalise – they do not need to worry about taxes; it is the bonuses they should get rid of), it is only fair that this sector, like any other, makes a fair contribution. the question is: why should the eu own-resources, including the vat element, be borne by householders and taxpayers, while the financial services industry is largely exempt from vat? while ireland borrows eur 85 billion to solve its economic crisis, its total support to banks is estimated at eur 725 billion. our citizens rightly believe it is time for the financial services sector to pay a fair contribution. even mervyn king, the governor of the bank of england, this weekend said that if we do not have a fundamental reform of the financial services sector we are heading for another banking crisis. this report does not say how we should introduce an ftt or how much it should be. it is now clear that we are at the beginning of examining evidence in this area, and one study shows that even a minuscule tax just on foreign exchange trade could raise usd 26 billion worldwide. we support further studies. of course we also support you, mr šemeta, in making sure that we do not have the failed swedish model, which is not a good example of an ftt. but, commissioner, can i say to you that, before seeing results of studies, i am a bit disappointed that your consultation paper already excluded an eu ftt. you are right, commissioner: let us see the evidence before we reject it. i am disappointed that you have already taken that decision. tomorrow’s vote, therefore – and i will finish on this – is in favour of this report and the principle that the financial services should now pay its way. it is a vote that backs our citizens and the view that they should not be left paying continually for the mistakes of the financial services and the banking sector.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking commissioner damanaki for her recent proposal to end the appalling practice of discarding. at a time when fish stocks are in decline and when some people on this planet do not have enough to eat, it is shameful that we catch good fish, kill it and then throw it back into the sea to feed the gulls and the crabs. i hope this legislation will be implemented without delay so that this disgraceful practice can be stopped as soon as possible. in addition to the commissioner’s recent announcement, i welcome the recommendations made by the gfcm. i particularly welcome the recommendations regarding fishing gear, especially the introduction of minimum mesh sizes to be used in the mediterranean and the black sea, and the prohibition of towed dredges and trawl nets below the thousand-metre mark. this will help make our fishing more sustainable. the ecr fully supports this report and i again thank commissioner damanaki for committing herself to abolishing discards.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 8 march 2011).
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on negotiations regarding the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania by carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000038/2011 – b7-0018/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu strategy for the atlantic region by alain cadec, luis manuel capoulas santos, seán kelly, eider gardiazábal rubial, nuno teixeira, salvador garriga polledo, ricardo cortés lastra, josé manuel fernandes, chris davies, jim higgins, marian harkin, ashley fox, maria do céu patrão neves, bairbre de brún, pat the cope gallagher, robert rochefort, josé bové, jean-pierre audy, mario mauro, andrey kovatchev, werner langen, markus ferber, milan zver, damien abad, íñigo méndez de vigo, peter jahr, ivo belet, reimer böge, jan březina, jarosław leszek wałęsa, dominique riquet, cristian dan preda, tokia saïfi, daniel caspary, peter šťastný, catherine soullie, bogusław sonik, elisabeth morin-chartier, dominique baudis, michèle striffler, lambert van nistelrooij, andreas schwab, rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, maria da graça carvalho, michel dantin, michael gahler, bernadette vergnaud, nessa childers, antolín sánchez presedo, marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, christine de veyrac, izaskun bilbao barandica, estelle grelier, isabella lövin, struan stevenson, christophe béchu, josefa andrés barea, marian-jean marinescu (o-000002/2011 – b7-0016/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this question mentions a territorial dimension with reference to other policies, including the cfp, which is a complete eu disaster. fish stocks in the north sea, part of the atlantic, have been ruined by discards, which must be abolished. they should never have been contemplated in the first place. uk fishermen have carefully looked after fish stocks in their own territorial waters while others have ruined theirs by overfishing. no wonder the cfp was welcomed by other member states, whose fishermen could not wait to get into the north sea. one needs more territorial exclusion, not less. in my own region – the east midlands – the fishermen of boston have fished the wash for generations, looking after the fish stocks and making sure that their trawl nets do not disturb the sea bed, for they know that this is where the immature shellfish develop and that this is where the creatures form the bottom of the food chain. this is their livelihood. now they are forbidden to fish, on the pretext that their trawls damage the sea bottom. meanwhile, a dutch vessel is licensed to hoover up a million tonnes of gravel from the same sea bed, while e.on is to dig a trench right through to the open sea to lay the line for a useless offshore wind farm. how much damage will all that do to the sea bed? how much longer will these fishermen be forced to stand by and watch their fishing grounds reduced to nothing while they are reduced to being benefit claimants?
mr president, i think there is a great deal of agreement, commissioner, between this house and your office as you develop the strategy. i think there is a wide agreement that we can achieve more together by creating a forum for encouraging cooperation amongst the regions and states and nations of the atlantic arc, but i would counsel gently against ‘priorityitis’, which is a disease that afflicts us in this chamber particularly badly. if you try to achieve 300 million objectives we might end up doing nothing very well, so i would pick out two particular priorities where i think the eu could add real, genuine, eu added value. in paragraph 8 there is a focus on interconnectors for marine energy. we have a massive renewable energy potential in the atlantic region. coming from scotland, we have a vast contribution to make towards our climate-change and our regional development objectives. we could play a great role in that. in paragraphs 9 to 11, the importance of marine transport could also have hugely important economic, as well as environmental, output. there is much in this to admire, but i would hope that the commission will have a greater degree of focus than the many, all very worthy, objectives we have seen from this house this evening.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 march 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mrs patrão neves, can i just say that when you take the floor you seem to speak for longer than your time and you speak very fast, which has been slightly difficult for the interpreters. perhaps you could condense your remarks?
mr president, i want to tell you all about the latest development concerning the european arrest warrant. many people have been extradited where there is no real evidence against them. indeed, the courts are powerless to consider any evidence and cannot prevent unjust extradition. now there is a new refinement. my constituent, dr miguel-ángel meizoso, faces extradition to spain, not for a crime he is accused of committing, but rather to face investigation for a crime that he, allegedly, might decide to commit in the future. dr meizoso, who has lived in london for 20 years, now stands to have his life torn apart on the whim of an investigative magistrate investigating a crime that has not happened. if anyone doubts this, i will gladly supply them with a briefing on the case. when is this parliament going to face up to, and debate, the injustices being done in the name of the european arrest warrant?
mr president, over a year ago, a group of meps, the rapporteur and myself got together in brussels for an informal meeting with a common aim – to do something about h1n1. as the meetings continued, i found that our objectives were the same, but that we had a different approach. the own-initiative report was an opportunity for parliament to take positive action in preparation for an epidemic. i fear it has been an opportunity lost. there are many points in this report that are of questionable value. it proposes a role for the ecdc which is not feasible, and it could lead to a false sense of security. what was needed was a ‘lessons learned’ approach and a basis to build on that. what we got was partly a name and shame report, which i fear will alienate many of the stakeholders. what we got was a report that was more political than practical.
mr president, health care should be the primary concern of every member state, but of course this chamber purports to make laws for the whole of the european union. but it does not seem to be able to lead by example. some of you may – and many of you will not – have seen the london sunday times yesterday, which talked about meps' health benefits. my colleague, mrs figueiredo, has just talked about budget cuts and how they have caused further inequalities in health care. yet the european union – and meps – gave themselves a 36% increase in health care last year, paying for things such as anti-ageing treatments, thermal spas, etc. but in this week when we are talking about women’s inequality, one statistic stands out. in the uk, for example, ivf treatment can be given only once to women – one cycle – but women meps and their relatives can have five cycles. come on, if you are going to have equality (the president cut off the speaker).
mr president, like many colleagues here – and i thank the rapporteur for his report – i want to focus on the mercosur trade talks because for us in northern ireland they have the potential to destroy, and particularly the livestock industry. on friday i met representatives of the agri-food processing industry in northern ireland. agri-food in northern ireland represents 16% of gdp; it represents tens of thousands of jobs; it has been recession-proof, it has grown even in the most difficult economic circumstances, and for the future it can be the cornerstone of a dynamic economy and an expansion of the private sector. it is this that the liberalisation of trade, and particularly the mercosur talks, puts in jeopardy and with it the tens of thousands of jobs and the livelihood of many of my constituents.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for the report. rising feed prices and import bans put in place by other countries have highlighted just how exposed the eu is in relation to animal feed supplies. protein supply is most important for the livestock sector and its profitability. farmers in this sector in my constituency are in very grave difficulties at present, particularly in the pig sector. despite the reservations of the rapporteur, can i also say that i believe that europe must move to a solution in relation to zero tolerance? i was speaking just last week to people in my constituency at home who are actually importers of feed. they were saying that the recent moves are merely political nods, which do not and will not provide a long-term solution, and we really do need to move to a solution in relation to zero tolerance. (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report, but also for his approach to putting together the other sections’ budget. he is right to balance the need to ensure that the european parliament and other sections are able to function properly against ensuring that budget increases are kept to an absolute minimum. i particularly welcome his proposal to keep increases within the rate of inflation. i believe the initial proposal of 5.2% is far too high. of course, to achieve the moderate savings pursued by the rapporteur and others within the parliament we need to ensure we also identify savings within the budget. i have therefore offered to work with the rapporteur to ensure those savings are found. i believe there are potential savings to be found in things like the buildings policy and in terms of enlargement – which the commissioner has mentioned himself – but also in things like the proposed cost of a non-european office, which i believe at this time is an unaffordable luxury. finally can i say we also need to work very closely with other institutions, particularly the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, which i know were very concerned about their budget for 2012 as well. we need to ensure that they, like us, are able to function properly but also at the same time limit their spending increases for the future. so i can say that the socialists and democrats group is very keen to work with the rapporteur; we do support the proposals for these guidelines, and we look forward next week to discussing the estimates.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what i find is a very well-balanced report, particularly in its seeking of consolidated resources and an austerity budget. the principles that he sets out – legislative excellence, good management principles, being able to have accuracy and simplicity, and submitting cost-cutting plans – should apply not just to all institutions other than the commission, but also to the commission budget itself. however, looking at the technological points that the rapporteur makes, it is not just in the longer term that we should be looking for savings, but also in the short term, when we should be able to come up with cost-cutting measures. one particular point of concern to my group is security. we seem to place too much emphasis on stopping people coming into the institutions. we do not allow them enough freedom of access or the possibility to circulate. could i suggest that, when the vice-presidents come to this particular point, they should be looking at the us congress, which does ensure the security of people going into the building, but then allows them to flow freely through it. having a professional security service enables that to happen.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, it is a disgrace that in the present economic crisis a proposal for a 5% increase for 2012 is already being put forward for this parliament’s budget. members’ assistance allowance was increased once again by eur 1 500 per month only last week. no attempt is being made to tackle the outrageous waste caused by the three seats of this parliament. worse, the european parliament has now engaged in a eur 60 million refurbishment of a building to be used as the european history house – as if we did not have museums in europe. does the eu want to rewrite history? and what about the external action service that will employ, among others, 50 officials who will earn 20% more than the british prime minister, and will need a new building that will cost eur 10.5 million per year. madam president, on behalf of the british taxpayer i beg you to stop this rip-off.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is a lot of self-congratulation going on here in the european union on international women’s day. it is my opinion that you have made a complete dog’s breakfast of it. you talk about maternity leave. all that is happening with draconian maternity leave, let me tell you, madam, is that fewer and fewer young women in my country are getting jobs because you would have to be stark staring mad to employ a young woman if you have a small business. so you have done them no favours. we have equal opportunities for car insurance now due to another lunatic judgment by the european court, which means that even if young women could get a job, they could not afford to drive to it because they have just had their car insurance doubled. and now you are talking about quotas. what kind of madness is this? women who have worked all their lives to get to a position of responsibility in business – professional women – are being patronised on quotas. now those women who have been successful will sit in a boardroom and people will look across that boardroom and say, are you a token woman or did you get there because you know your business? the whole thing is completely crazy and it is a tragedy that none of you have done a real job in your lives or you would understand this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, this is simply not true and is not borne out by the statistics in my country. speak to any small businessman you like in my country. i am not interested in the honourable member’s country or other people’s countries, i am interested in my country and my economy, and i can tell you that all businessmen and women will say that they will not employ young women because of the draconian maternity laws. i wish, i desperately wish, you would come into the real world; hands up any of you who have had a real job! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, in reply to ms oviir, i would simply counsel her to let companies do their business. the less you regulate, the less you tax, the less you interfere, the quicker our economy will recover. that is what it is all about, and that is something the honourable member does not understand. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).
madam president, in reply to ms estrela, i can assure her that the problem with my country is that we have given up self-government and we are members of the european union: that is my country’s problem. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, in reply to ms jäätteenmäki i would say that i believe that children are the responsibility of their parents and nobody else. i do not accept that somebody takes responsibility for his neighbour’s children. it is for the parents to take responsibility for their children and that is how it should be. the more self-responsibility we had in europe – and indeed, the world – the better it would be, in my view.
madam president, as many members have pointed out, the progress of women’s rights has moved steadily forward over a number of years. in the 30 years between the first elections to the european parliament and 2009, when i was elected, the representation of women has more than doubled. we now see women in major roles in politics, business, industry and the media. perhaps most importantly, as a society we have come to appreciate the necessity of the role of women and to recognise their contribution, winning equality along the way. however, we need to be mindful of how far we push calls for more equality and in what areas. our concern should be to focus on what is still wrong today. in the uk, women still account for under 20% of the members of parliament, nearly half of the companies in the ftse 250 have no females in the boardroom at all and only a fifth of all engineering, science and it graduates are women. given the diverse nature of our societies, this is clearly something that member states need to address – without quotas and targets arbitrarily set at an eu level. however, over and above representation, there are thousands of women across the eu, and indeed the world, who endure violence, exploitation and exclusion. they are the ones without a voice. it is those women – who suffer from discrimination, are deliberately discouraged from achievement or are victims of repression – who surely deserve our absolute attention.
madam president, it was the trotskyists who transformed marxist class warfare into multi-grievance group warfare. society was to be segmented into groups, who might or might not have known that they had a grievance until that was explained to them by helpful young militants. the groups might be defined by ethnicity, religion, sex, sexuality, age or disability. they were all to be urged to engage in collective action against their oppressors. the trotskyists grew older, if not up. in some cases they moved into positions of power and influence. their ideas spread much faster and further than they did. the word ‘discrimination’, when followed by the word ‘against’, became the ultimate evil. in many cases, there is no identifiable perpetrator. the discriminator is the rest of society. we are all guilty. people, whatever their real disadvantage, must realise when they are being manipulated and must shake off that manipulation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last week in the united kingdom, lord davies delivered his speech to the government on how to increase women’s participation in the boardroom. his report consisted of voluntary targets for businesses. no-one can disagree that we need more women in the boardroom. what i cannot accept is that we need quotas to get there. how patronising is that? almost as patronising as giving the women in this room a rose when they came in. well, i give my rose to a man. on a positive note, the uk is making real headway in the elimination of the gender pay gap. the latest figures show that the pay gap between men and women in full-time employment is down to 10%, the lowest since the records began. finally, on international women’s day, i must pay tribute to motherhood. true equality is having the right to choose and not be judged for these choices. whether a director in the boardroom, surgeon in the hospital, part-time care assistant, car mechanic or housewife and mother, a woman has the right to make her own choice. [applause]
mr president, i too would like to pay tribute to all the women around the world and all the women in the last 100-plus years who have fought for equality. it was in 1893 that new zealand gave women the vote. if i may pay tribute to my own country, it was in 1970 that a certain labour politician, barbara castle, pushed forward the first equal pay act in the western world. of course it was the united kingdom that had the first woman prime minister in europe. however, i think that the european parliament has lost touch with reality. i am against discrimination of any kind, even positive, as it inevitably leads to the creation of victims. women do not need to be patronised by quotas, and instead need barriers to their progress to be removed. member states would do better to focus on issues such as the need for improved child care. we have had a recent court of justice decision on car insurance that boycotts traditional, tried and tested, sensible methods of risk assessment. despite the eu’s stance on positively discriminating in favour of women, this case exemplifies politically correct euro-babble, with a potty decision which actually makes life more difficult and expensive for women. common sense is a stranger to the european union.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president, if we look at the history of our common agreements, the common fisheries policy, the common agricultural policy, the result is, quite clearly, there for people to see. while in some areas this has led us to increase production at artificial prices, we have also seen the depletion of our fishing stocks and we have seen problems with discards. it is quite clear that that system has failed. it is time for us to recognise that the best way forward is a system based on property rights and transferable property rights for future generations who have an interest in securing the resources for their generation and for future generations. if only we could learn the rule of law, and if only we could apply property rights to fisheries policies, we would have sustainable fisheries policy not just for the common fisheries policy of the eu but globally, and we would have no need for these agreements.
madam president, every day thousands of tonnes of dead fish are tipped over the sides of vessels into the sea. they sink – the scales and the bones are clogging the sea beds, suffering – as the uk’s national poet puts it – a sea change into something rich and strange. for once the metaphor is entirely apposite. now, the european commission has belatedly woken up, years after this problem of discards first arose, and has attempted to do something about it. however, every solution proposed by the commission would bring perverse incentives of its own – one can limit the days a boat spends at sea, one can restrict the size of the mesh of the net, one can force skippers to land every last sprat they catch. all of these things are based on the existential problem of the common fisheries policy, which is precisely that it is a common policy: it defines fisheries as a common resource to which all nations have equal access. no one has ownership and therefore no one has an incentive to treat fisheries as a renewable resource. we need to copy what iceland, new zealand and the falklands and other places have done, in giving skippers an incentive in conservation and giving them property rights. the only way to do this is by re-establishing national control over territorial waters.
mr president, when we look back at this financial crisis, we have to make sure that we learn some lessons. for example, we have to learn the lesson that inappropriate regulation can sometimes cause a problem, as the community investment act in the united states did. it encouraged banks to lend to customers who were not creditworthy. when one in ten of those customers defaulted, that started a subprime crisis and we have been seeing the consequences ever since. we have to understand the consequences of printing money too cheaply and of holding interest rates down so that people make investments based on bad decisions, and of not recognising that money itself has a value. as the austrian economist, ludwig von mises said, if you make those bad decisions and create malinvestment, when the market corrects itself, everyone loses out and the credit cycle bursts. this is exactly what we saw. we also have to learn the lesson that banks should never again be allowed to be too big to fail. if we put in place this tax to raise money, what message will it give to banks? banks will say to themselves that they can continue to operate as they did before, without due care, and that they can collapse and the taxpayer will bail them out. it is time we learned the lessons of the financial crisis.
mr president, i think one of my major concerns over the last few years, when we have been discussing the idea of taxation at international level, has been the attack on countries such as the cayman islands, when all they have done is heed the advice we have given them when it comes to development issues. for many years we have been telling the islands of the caribbean and other developing countries that they should diversify away from sugar and bananas, start to go up the value chain and start to get expertise when it comes to services. the cayman islands have done that, and now about 40 to 50% of their economy is in financial services, thanks to their system of tax neutrality. not tax evasion, but tax neutrality. they do not double- and treble-tax the funds that decide to locate there. but what do the hypocritical imperialists of the european union do when the cayman islands decide to compete with them on taxation? they decide to act like the imperialists of old, and try to attack the cayman islands for wanting to compete with the eu. shame on this eu imperialism!
mr president, i found it very difficult to support my friend ms joly’s report, because she started talking about a european and global tax. usd 880 billion worth of funds leave developing countries through various legal and illegal means and are deposited in european and western banks. we, in return, put 60 to 70 billion of european taxpayers’ money into developing countries for poverty elimination programmes. had that money – that usd 880 billion that escapes out of developing countries and is deposited in our banks – been left in those developing countries to develop those countries, how much better would it be that they would grow faster, have capital formation abilities, have property rights and commercial practices?
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it outlines very clearly the problems faced by the european union’s agricultural sector and farmers, especially in terms of trade policy. let me be very clear, the european union’s agricultural sector should not be sacrificed in any way in order to secure trade arrangements such as with mercosur. unfortunately, however, i feel that that is precisely the direction in which things are going. there seems to be a perception that european agriculture can be used as an easy bargaining chip. if this is indeed the case, i foresee major problems in many sectors of agriculture, and especially in the livestock sector. with regard to equivalent standards, no one should be threatened by what we demand, which is that imports into the eu should meet the same standards as required of our own producers. surely we have a responsibility to our consumers to ensure that this is the case. i am also very unhappy with the commission’s attitude to parliament in this regard. it is unacceptable that it should try and keep us in the dark. as negotiations continue, i want the view of the committee on agriculture and rural development to be taken on board.
mr president, when i speak to my friends in many of the poorer countries of the world and ask them what is the best way in which we can help them to alleviate and tackle poverty in their country, they often say that aid is not the answer. what would help them would be for us to help the entrepreneurs in their country to create wealth locally, and for them to be able to trade with us in the european union. we can help by opening up our markets. one of the big problems with that statement is the fact that we have the common agricultural policy. the united states has all sorts of subsidies as well. while we preach open trade, we are being hypocritical when we close our markets to the very good produce from developing countries. on top of that, we use something called sanitary and phytosanitary standards. of course we all want safer food, but quite often these standards are used as a non-tariff barrier against imports from developing countries. it is time to trust the consumers. as long as food is safe, let the consumers decide whether they want food grown in europe or grown elsewhere. let us stop subsidising unprofitable and unfeasible industries in europe.
mr president, the european union’s common agricultural policy is unmatched in its wastefulness, in its corruption, in its byzantine bureaucracy, in its selfishness, in its hypocrisy and in its immorality. at the end of the 1950s, the argentinian ambassador to the eu was the appointed spokesman of the developing countries. he said that if europe had to subsidise its farmers then they understood that and that they did not like our keeping out their products but they understood it, but he asked us not to land them the double blow of then dumping our surpluses on their markets. the eu did not listen then and it has not listened since. the last world trade talks were given the optimistic title ‘everything but arms’. of course, these quickly descended into everything but farms, because the eu is determined to retain this protected and subsidised position for this one niche sector. infer from what has happened. the common agricultural policy has existed since 1960. this is what the eu has been doing for longest. if this is what we have come up with – the ecological calamity, the poverty, the inflationary consequences of higher food prices – what are we thinking of if we want to give these same institutions additional powers?
mr president, normally i agree one hundred percent with what my friend mr kamall says, but today i beg to differ. i have come to the view, having thought about it long and hard, that food security is a very important aspect of our global population growth. the european union should be secure in its own food security. this means self-sufficiency. not over-production, where we dump on developing countries, or under-production, where we take food from the mouths of hungry people. so we should go for self-sufficiency in europe, self-sufficiency in asia and self-sufficiency in africa and the united states. if we have self-sufficiency as our target in our programmes then everything else can come into play on international trade. food is something that we cannot play with.
mr president, thank you for stepping in and chairing this session, and may i thank your staff and the interpreters. the recent ruling that insurers may not discriminate on the basis of sex in order to factor in differences in driving ability or differences in longevity is flawed on so many levels that it is difficult to know where to begin. take, first, the expense. this will cost an extra billion pounds. premiums will rise and fewer people will take up insurance. secondly, take the poor jurisprudence, the way in which the european court of justice is ruling on the basis of european court of human rights precedent. thirdly, take the bad faith. when the equality and non-discrimination directives were passed, it was clearly understood that actuarially justified distinctions would still be justifiable. take, fourth, the judicial activism, the way in which our judges have disregarded what the law says in favour of what they think the law ought to say. take, fifth, the attack on free contract. if you want to insure me and i am happy to accept the terms you offer, it is not for the state to come between us and declare our transaction illegal. then take, sixth, the knock-down argument: what has any of this to do with the european union? surely each country could work out its own rules on sex equality in accordance with its own proper democratic mechanisms and procedures. mr president, a court with a mission is a menace. a supreme court with a mission is a tyranny.
in writing. − i abstained on this report. while on the one hand i have the highest admiration for the work done by mr brok, on the other i have serious doubts about using parliamentary immunity to prevent due legal process on a tax avoidance case.
in writing. − there are still to many unsafe products available on the market. i welcome this report, which says that rapex (eu rapid alert system for dangerous consumer products) needs further improvements. specifically, member states need to improve the effectiveness and visibility of custom rules and authorities in tackling poor product safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which suggests further improvements to the rapid alert system for dangerous consumer products in the eu. improving effectiveness and visibility of customs rules will help to tackle poor product safety, ultimately benefiting consumers.
in writing. − i voted for this report because there was nothing in it to object to. however, given the limited impact of h1n1 influenza i am not sure why parliament decided to allocate time and resources to it.
in writing. − i supported this report which evaluates the management of h1n1 influenza and calls for a joint procurement mechanism for vaccinations. it is important that we learn from previous outbreaks so that we can protect ourselves better in the future.
in writing. − whilst the ecr group is in favour of improving lines of communication and cooperation between member states in relation to health threats like epidemics, the report on h1n1 ill advises member states on the facts surrounding h1n1 and on the precautions they should take in the event of another epidemic. there are several disputable facts within the report and explanatory statement which may lead to a false understanding of h1n1, its impact on european societies and government response plans. we believe the recommended steps which a member state should take when faced with future epidemics (from the buying of vaccinations through to the reporting of facts to eu bodies) are unwise and would not solve any major issues associated with h1n1 or future pandemics. the report also places liability for vaccines with manufacturers, which may hinder the supply of vaccines and blurs lines of accountability. furthermore, the dossier tries to broaden ecdc’s mandate and their working relationship with member states, which is undesirable as it may lead to an increase in their budgetary allowance. the ecr group has therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i abstained on the appointment of mr harald wögerbauer as a member of the court of auditors. i did so because of reports from colleagues of his unclear performance regarding his experience in the austrian court of audit.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement area. the present proposal for a regulation is simply intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the gfcm, and already in effect in the gfcm’s contracting states, into a single community legislative act into which future recommendations can be incorporated by way of amendments to that act. this would mark an important step towards simplification, given that up to now the european community has only adopted annual regulations for the purpose of adapting and updating the existing rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which seeks to simplify the existing arrangements relating to fishing practice within the mediterranean agreement area.
in writing. − i voted against the podimata report on innovative financing because it wants to introduce a financial transfer tax which, while it is claimed that it is needed to protect the economy from risky trading and to provide a fund to use in the event of another crisis and will only be placed on wholesale and professional industry, it will inevitably be passed on to the consumer and citizen taxpayer who is already struggling in this crisis. the tax will have a terrible impact on the city of london, the financial service industry which is britain’s largest and greatest contributor to the treasury. it will cause companies to leave the uk with a loss of jobs and a loss of tax revenue.
in writing. − in voting for this report, euro mps are responding to the public’s call for fair taxation of the financial sector. the financial sector is largely exempt from vat and is under-taxed, while ordinary citizens have faced the costs of the financial crisis, including contributing eur 9 500 in government support from every man, woman and child in the eu. in this vote, meps have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a robin hood tax – a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally. global agreement would be the best way to introduce such a tax, but the uk’s stamp duty on shares demonstrates it is possible to introduce a successful, well-designed financial transaction tax (ftt) without undermining competitiveness. an eu-wide coordinated ftt would be the first step towards a global ftt. it is time for action and the eu can lead this campaign for global fairer taxation.
in writing. − labour euro mps are responding to the public’s call for fair taxation of the financial sector. the financial sector is largely exempt from vat and is under-taxed, while ordinary citizens have faced the costs of the financial crisis including contributing eur 9 500 in government support from every man, woman and child in the eu. in this vote, labour euro mps have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a robin hood tax – a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally. global agreement would be the best way to introduce such a tax, but the uk’s stamp duty on shares demonstrates it is possible to introduce a successful, well-designed financial transaction tax (ftt) without undermining competitiveness. an eu-wide coordinated ftt would be the first step towards a global ftt. it is time for action and the eu can lead this campaign for global fairer taxation.
in writing. − during today's vote on the podimata report on innovative financing a separate amendment was voted on that called on the commission to come forward with proposals for an eu-level financial transaction tax proposal in the absence of any initiatives at the g20 level. i voted in favour of the amendment for the purposes of group solidarity and because i believe that clear support for the concept of an ftt from europe may spur further discussions at the g20. however, i am very clear that the introduction of an ftt at eu level, if not also implemented globally, raises potential risks to the uk’s competitive position as a financial centre, which has a clear impact on citizens in south-east england. i am very wary of an eu-only ftt and believe that any proposal must be rigorously impact-assessed to ensure that the positive impacts outweigh the downsides for my constituents. prior to the result of such an impact assessment i flatly reject proposals for a blanket 0.05% ftt on all financial transactions as being arbitrary and ill thought-out.
in writing. − in contrast to my scottish conservative and scottish liberal colleagues, i have supported this report which addresses a variety of possible financing sources including a financial transactions tax. it also calls for a debate on the use of revenue which could come from a ftt.
in writing. − with citizens across the eu facing a growing bill for the financial crisis, the measures included in this report have the potential to raise billions of euros and alleviate some of the pressure on families in these challenging financial circumstances. a tiny tax on financial transactions will be able to be put to use to fight poverty in the uk and across the world and mitigate the effects of climate change. campaigners for this so-called robin hood tax, including labour meps, now need to expand on their success and continue to put pressure on the global financial sector to expand this scheme to create a worldwide financial transaction tax.
in writing. − i voted for this report and welcome its focus on inequality in health among lower socioeconomic groups. i welcome the attention given to the importance of housing and employment factors with regard to health. i also agree with the report’s drawing attention to the increased risk of obesity, smoking and drinking among lower socioeconomic groups.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to support the approach of the rapporteur who has set out principles which should really matter concerning women’s health. many women in european society do not have essential rights to health programmes and access to facilities because of their social and economic position within our society, in particular ethnic minorities and migrant women who may be undocumented. while it is important to safeguard against ‘health tourism’ as it is unfortunately termed, it is also essential to remember our commitment to fundamental human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which looks at different health inequalities in member states and encourages them to keep healthcare as a priority during the financial crisis and recovery. it is vital that these inequalities do not increase as governments look to save money.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which concentrates on the need to strengthen the capacities of good tax governance for development and sees the need for a regulatory framework designed to support international tax cooperation, transparency, public and private sector development and economic growth; highlights that tax-to-gdp ratios in developing countries range between 10 and 20%, as opposed to between 25 and 40% in developed countries; regrets that too little support has been given so far by donors to tax-related assistance; in this context, welcomes the commission's proposal to provide enhanced support for assisting developing countries in tax reforms and strengthening tax administrations regarding edf for acp states, the development cooperation instrument and the enp and partnership instrument, and support for national supervisory bodies, parliaments and non-state actors, and notes that more emphasis should be placed on efforts to undertake capacity- building within developing countries in order to help them make effective use of the exchange of information and effectively counter tax evasion with their own, internal, legislation.
in writing. − i have supported this report which focuses on the importance of taxation in relation to meeting development policies and suggests ways in which the eu can more effectively use existing funds and instruments for this aim.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation strongly supports the principle of free trade. free trade creates prosperity and free trade will make a vital contribution to the recovery of the european economies. we believe that this report places too much emphasis on protecting eu agricultural markets from outside competition and not enough emphasis on exporting production standards. eu farmers are required to meet stringent environmental and animal welfare standards, for which they are in part compensated through the subsidy system. however, products imported into the eu from third countries very often do not conform to those same high standards. closing eu borders to agricultural products from third countries is not the answer. the eu should actively seek to export its strong animal welfare and environmental standards around the world, notably through more open international markets, rather than focusing on defensive, protectionist solutions. for this reason, the british conservative delegation voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against this report which sends out a highly protectionist message as regards parliament’s attitude to trade. taken literally, this report would make it impossible for the eu to negotiate any meaningful ftas or, for that matter, complete the doha development round.
in writing. − i, on behalf of the eplp, did not support the report on eu agriculture and international trade. while the report makes some valuable points on protecting the interests of our agricultural industry, e.g. the need to protect geographical indications within bilateral and multilateral agreements, i am of the opinion that the report includes parts which are too protectionist and which set unrealistic conditions on current and future eu negotiations on trade agreements. additionally, the maintenance of protectionist measures within the eu as a means of shielding eu agricultural producers from external competition is out of step with the eplp’s position on cap reform. we have always argued for the removal of trade barriers to promote a more efficient and competitive agricultural sector, to deliver a better deal for the consumer and to present market access opportunities for less economically-developed countries.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which draws attention to the eu protein deficit and the need to rebalance that deficit, but i oppose measures that would mean increased subsidies for farmers to ensure eu protein production. my view is that encouraging domestic protein crop production needs to be done in line with a reformed cap which sees the eu moving towards sustainable farming and greater market orientation and, importantly, moving away from trade-distorting subsidies.
in writing. − the general thrust of this report advocates that rather than import protein from third countries we should encourage farmers to produce it here in europe. this view ignores the fact that, due to natural constraints, europe is simply not able to produce the quantities of soya and maize necessary to meet the demand of our farmers at a viable price. affordable imports of protein from third countries such as the us are crucial if we wish to ensure food security and create conditions in which farmers can earn a decent living from agriculture. furthermore, the report refers to the fact that we should explore the possibility of using animal protein as a source of animal feed. after our experience with bse, i do not believe that we should go down this route, nor do i believe that this is necessary if an adequate supply of soya and maize is available to farmers. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which notes that there is a need to strengthen the gender dimension in the fight against poverty. as 2010 is the european year for combating poverty, particular attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups of women. specific measures should be taken to stop women vulnerable on account of a disability or their status as immigrants or minorities falling into precarious situations, and to facilitate their integration into society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to tackle gender inequality within member states. it is disappointing to note that on the 100th anniversary of international women’s day my british conservative colleagues chose not support this report.
in writing. − the ecr group acknowledges that the fundamental principle of equality between men and women is enshrined in the european treaties and is something that each member state of the eu respects and upholds. that being said, we were unable to vote in favour of this report for several specific reasons. firstly, we fundamentally oppose the introduction of targets and quotas for women in certain professions being set at eu level; we believe this is something that member states should do. secondly, we are reluctant to accept issues of conscience in political reports and believe that member states should legislate on issues concerning abortion and contraception. thirdly, issues regarding employment, such as pensions, retirement age and pay should be determined at national level, and although we are fully in favour of eradicating the gender pay gap, it is not for the eu to set out prescriptive targets.
in writing. − although women’s poverty is a long-lasting reality, the issue has only relatively recently started to be tackled in a systemic way. the current economic, financial and social crisis that affects the european union, as well as the rest of the world, is generating a series of specific negative effects, directly influencing women’s living and working conditions, and their place in society in general. this context projected to the top of the european parliament’s agenda the necessity of a gender approach to poverty, in the report on the face of female poverty. at global level, women are poor by comparison with men. this is also the reality in each and every eu member state, although one can identify specific differences depending on the country. almost 17% of european women are ranked as living in poverty. considering the indicators relating to the labour market and social protection, the structural causes of poverty have a disproportionate effect on women. at the same time, one can say that women’s contribution to the development of family, society and economy is regularly underestimated and underpaid.
in writing. − i supported this report which recognises that across the eu women are more impacted by poverty and that we need to work together to address this. i was disappointed that again british conservatives opposed this report on the 100th anniversary of international women’s day.
in writing. − women in the eu earn on average 17.5% less than men, and this rate has remained constant for the past fifteen years - it is time for action to be taken to cut this pay gap. equal pay for equal work must be properly implemented in member states in order to get a fair deal for women. it is vital we look at the effect the gender pay gap has on pensions for women; in many cases a woman's right to a pension results from her marital status. equal pensions for women should be guaranteed, and it is for this reason i supported the proposal to ensure the same rights for women in the case of pensions and social security. around 17% of all women in the eu are living below the poverty line, and it is essential that social and labour market policies are adapted to guarantee a minimum income and social justice for women. i agree with calls for the eu to provide more funding through the esf in order to help combat poverty and social exclusion - it is vital that women are fully integrated into the labour market.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in a crisis one sometimes has to act quickly – and it is clear that the eurozone is not out of its crisis – but one also has to act intelligently. the uk restored market confidence by reforms to control spending and reduce national debt. these are now core suggestions under the competitiveness pact. parliament’s procedures do not allow it to make rapid decisions, but there are suggestions tabled by meps that perhaps the european council could find helpful. on the irish interest rate, those of us who have lent another country money deserve an interest rate which reflects the risk, but we also want our money back. i have suggested a pre-payment incentive, a bonus to reward early repayment. under the economic governance package, member states will have to be more transparent with their own budgets. i would suggest the same thing should happen for taxpayers contributing to the eu’s budget. i hope that despite this crisis our national governments will be able to listen to suggestions from this house and work together in a constructive manner.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i enjoyed mr barroso’s view of the world today, but it was perhaps rather more ironic than he had intended. he talked about the events in egypt and elsewhere, saying that it is wonderful that people are rising up seeking democracy. i would remind him that democracy is a method whereby you vote for people who govern you and then, if you do not like what they do, you can get rid of them, turf them out and put somebody else in. it was ironic because his next sentence was ‘and that is why in europe, facing the euro crisis, we must reinforce the community method’. for the public watching in on this – which increasingly they do – the community method means that laws are proposed in secret by unelected bureaucrats – people like you, mr barroso. i know the european parliament voted for you, but you were the only candidate that was offered to us. that is not democracy! so mr barroso is saying on the one hand that democracy is good, but on the other hand that we cannot have it in europe. that was reinforced by mr verhofstadt, who comes from belgium and who thinks all nation states should be abolished – well, perhaps his own will be very shortly. he is saying that we want an economic union. nobody has voted for that. nobody has been asked whether they want it. he may vote for it but the peoples of europe have not voted for it. what should be discussed at the summit on friday is portugal. after the bailouts in greece and ireland, it is pretty obvious that the markets are sending a message – ‘come in number 3, your time is up’. portuguese bond yields hit 7.6% on monday. mr barroso knows that himself. it was when yields reached 7% that ireland had to be bailed out. in april we also have a massive rollover of portuguese debt – another eur 20 billion that has to rolled over. let us remind ourselves that, in the last six months, 80% of portugal’s debt has been purchased by the european central bank. we cannot go on as a european union buying our own debt. if we do, the next debt crisis will not be in a country, but will be a debt crisis of the european central bank itself. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i am pleased that mr schulz has asked me that. the difficulty is that when you form an artificial state that has within it more than one language group – which is clearly the case in belgium – you may for a period of time be able to hold it together, but whether it is belgium, whether it is yugoslavia or whether it is the european union, if you have entirely different languages and cultures it will not hold together. the reason you are so upset about belgium, and mr van rompuy got terribly upset about it and mr verhofstadt never likes it, is that – is this not the truth, mr schulz? – belgium is a microcosm for the whole european project.
madam president, that is a good question. mr schulz, you are quite right that belgium was a british invention, and a british mistake. we have made many over the years. we have got some things right and some things wrong, just as your country, germany, has. germany’s history has not been whiter than white, i think you might agree. you are quite right. actually, holding together the united kingdom has been something that has been deeply troubling. indeed ireland went its own way, back in 1921, i think, when independence for ireland was established. you are right. it is very difficult to hold together different cultures. i do think that the union of england, scotland, wales and northern ireland works, at the moment, because it has consent. if it did not have consent, then there would be popular calls for referenda and those nations would be able to break away. but my point is that in this european union, nobody is being given that opportunity.
madam president, every week the press is filled with news of a new or modified proposal from a country, the european council and the president of the commission. i commend the president of the ecb because he has paid heed to the discussions and reports in the parliament and recognises our direction and determination. the competitiveness pact and its evolution is a case in point. we already have a richer tapestry of ideas in our amendments to the economic governance package, so we will have little difficulty in moving into codecision to merge the outcomes of the positions that we take in parliament and council. but we should not cherry-pick from the single market, nor continue to get it wrong. the single market is not about a fortress with a level playing field inside. it is about the external competitiveness that a large single market can generate, so it is intimately mixed with the recovery side of economic governance. we also need a permanent financial stability mechanism capable of evolving over time, subject to governance and priorities. to the german people, convulsed with the ‘transfer union’ issue, i say ‘look at what accompanies the demands of your own government – recapitalisation of banks and purchase of sovereign debt in a secondary market’. germany’s banks will take ten years to recognise their impaired assets from the crisis, and that includes sovereign debt. germany’s banks will not meet new international rules for bank capital, so transfer to german banks should also be the issue on your lips. that is why you need the mechanism, like all the eurozone. finally, on interest rates there is a balance that has to be struck between sustainability and moral hazard. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the continued consolidation of democracy and respect for human rights in turkey, which should lead to full membership of our european union, becomes even more important as arab and middle eastern countries just beyond europe’s borders stand in crisis. we should welcome the fact that momentum has returned to the reform process in turkey and, recognising the controversies of last september’s referendum, call for it to be a platform for fundamental constitutional reform with all-party support in the future. i warmly endorse commissioner füle’s work in this respect and his uncompromising words this afternoon on freedom of expression, particularly as i, with fellow european representatives, were prevented from acting as legal observers to the kck cases in the diyarbakir court only last month. but i also ask the commissioner to make progress on the visa issue, particularly for business people, and on holding turkey to its promises for the draft trade union law. our socialist and democrat group believes that the accession talks are threatened, not by a train crash, but by death through strangulation. no new chapter has been opened for eight months, the longest period since the talks were first launched. we will vote tomorrow for the opening of the chapters on fundamental rights and judiciary and on the common foreign and security policy, not because we want to be weak on these issues, but because we want to be strong. we do not do so because we want to alter the pressure on all sides to achieve reconciliation on the island of cyprus. just as momentum is needed in the reform process for turkey, momentum is needed in its membership talks with the european union too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i recognise that there are differing views on turkish accession both between and within the political groups in this parliament, my own included. my personal view has always been very supportive of turkish aspirations towards europe. of course there are concerns but i would say that, given the turbulence we are now seeing in north africa and the middle east and against the background of a continuing threat from islamist terrorism, never has it been more important for us to send a positive signal to turkey that she is welcome in the club of the european democracies. i would ask our greek cypriot and greek friends in particular to give up their unilateral approach to the cyprus problem, to be more even-handed and to reach a comprehensive settlement with the turks before it is too late. we criticise turkey over the additional protocol – we have heard the same again this afternoon from the presidency-in-office – yet no mention is made of the failure to implement the eu council decision of 26 april 2004. turkey is a key member of the atlantic alliance, a democracy with a pivotal role at the interface between west and east, and a country that is changing fast with a growth rate that puts her among global leaders. let us get moving! let us not lose turkey at this stage!
madam president, people in islamic countries today are doing something rather similar to the turkish people’s ousting of the single-party dictatorship in 1950. as egypt, like turkey, may yet discover, overthrowing the deep state is much harder and that is why the ergenekon case and similar investigations are so important. liberals in this house wish mr erdoğan and his government every success in creating a true democracy and anchoring it in our european club of democratic nations. the customs union has been a great success and turkey’s membership of the european union can be equally successful. we regret the stalling of the accession process and, while turkey must bear part of the blame, the bad faith of certain member states – as revealed by wikileaks – is an embarrassment to our union. mr sarkozy no more speaks for europe on turkey than he does on his union for the mediterranean. his visit to ankara was inflammatory, and it is a pity that german christian democrats do not take max fischer’s advice and look in the mirror, because the akp today is the mirror image of the german cdu in 1950 – not christian democrat, but islamic democrat – and that is no doubt why the commissioner says that he understands and shares turkey’s frustrations. this report is honest – too honest for some. turkey has much to achieve, but we have much to lose if we do not welcome and work with islamic democracies like turkey and indonesia.
i have to say, madam president, mr brok, there are two or three million germans and britons living in southern spain. what do these people say when the spanish government requires their children to learn spanish before they learn german or english? you're against it, of course. you can't say in germany, you should learn german first! of course they should learn both languages, but germany still has a lot of work to do if it wants to pursue a genuine integration policy.
madam president, i greatly regret that the turkish accession process is stalled. turkey fails to make the progress that we want, the cyprus problem remains intractable, france and germany are implacably opposed to turkish membership, and there is clearly a great prejudice against turkey inside this parliament. we face a giant strategic crisis. europe loses turkey, and turkey loses europe. what we need to be doing is to devote 2011 to a genuine new partnership built on a radical reappraisal of where the true interests of both parties lie.
madam president, i would like to join those who have congratulated the rapporteur on a very comprehensive and balanced report, but i join with those who have already mentioned that it is scarcely one of progress: this should be more of a situation report. to underline that this is a catalogue of very little progress on the major issues under discussion, she has very carefully listed in paragraph 40 the need for the withdrawal of turkish troops from cyprus; in paragraph 47, as other speakers have done, she deplores turkey’s non-implementation of the additional protocol; and then, as others have not mentioned, she refers to the blockage of nato-eu strategic cooperation beyond the ‘berlin plus’ arrangements. i believe it is very important that the union does not give way on any of the issues or open any more of the chapters of negotiations until such time as we see that turkey is a willing partner in this discussion. or perhaps in the end, when you look at this whole process, you wonder whether there is the leadership on both sides to complete this or whether it was just an idea of the 20th century, which in the 21st century makes no sense at all.
madam president, i am proud to stand up and welcome the progress made by turkey in its accession to the eu. i have long been a supporter of turkish accession. it is in the eu’s interest and indeed it is in turkey’s. we can take a narrow, populist view or we can show leadership and vision. that leadership and vision is to bring turkey into the eu, where it belongs. there have been some positive developments, but equally there is more to be done. i will offer some constructive suggestions. there needs to be more done to combat discrimination and to promote equality on the base of sex, gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, age and sexual orientation. this should be guaranteed by law. therefore i ask the turkish authorities to reinsert the reference to sexual identity into the draft law on combating discrimination and inequality. time is running away. i could speak about this issue for a long time. it is worthwhile recalling that turkey is a modern, secular country and that in turkey women got the vote long before women got the vote in some parts of the eu – something we should remember as we look back over one hundred years of feminism.
madam president, turkey’s momentum towards eu accession continues to falter. one reason, of course, is the non-compliance with the ankara additional protocols and non-recognition and continued occupation of cyprus. the refusal by the turkish government to open its ports and airports to trade from the republic of cyprus is unacceptable, but i would also like to mention the fact that they could also have a more constructive approach towards their neighbour armenia, including the reopening of the shared border with armenia and an acknowledgement of the deliberate mass killing of armenians in 1915. furthermore, turkey’s thinly disguised political support for iran risks impeding the eu’s efforts to stop the islamist theocracy in tehran from building a nuclear bomb, and that is deeply regrettable. i am also concerned by its increasing hostility to israel, our ally, as witnessed by the gaza flotilla episode and turkey’s officially published findings. turkey continues to maintain the greek orthodox monastery at halki closed for no apparent reason, and to deny its ancient syriac christians full community rights. there can be no doubt in my mind that turkey must now redouble its efforts if it wants to make further progress towards the eu and its values.
madam president, the report is rather given to understatement. i quote, ‘significant efforts are needed on fundamental rights’. the author orhan pamuk escaped prosecution for a heretical view of turkish history only because of his international fame. the law is still in place. could the eu possibly tolerate the suppression of heretical academic opinion in a member state? later the report says that there is no progress towards normalisation of relations with cyprus. in plain language this means that turkey still occupies, with force of arms, the northern part of that country, expropriating the property of greek cypriots and desecrating and plundering their places of worship and burial. until turkey withdraws its troops unconditionally, returns property and repairs damage, there should be no relations with turkey at all, let alone negotiation for its eu membership.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i visited montenegro twice during the past eighteen months, with my colleague anna ibrisagic from the ppe as shadow rapporteur, to form my own assessment of the country’s progress towards, first, candidate status and, now, the prospect of eu membership. i have been extremely impressed by the diligence and commitment of the entire montenegrin government. no matter how small it may be, it is certainly one that works extremely hard. i would pay very special tribute to the former prime minister, milo ðjukanović, and his recent successor, igor lukšić, who have both been pragmatic and, at the same time, single-minded in their approach and in their quest to lead their country towards eu accession and nato accession. the onus is now on montenegro to meet the eu’s expectations. in particular, the montenegrin government needs to address the seven key priorities identified by commissioner füle in the commission’s opinion. i particularly emphasise the issue of corruption and organised crime, on which there are clear and well-defined benchmarks for measuring progress. i am pleased that last month the government adopted a very well formulated action plan aimed at responding to these priorities and demands. in my view, montenegro is now ready to start negotiating eu membership as an official candidate, and it is curious that the commission should be insisting on a significant time-lapse between the granting of official candidate status and the opening of negotiations. this delay has no real justification or apparent basis, according to my reading of the treaties. more importantly, it is hardly the most positive signal to send to podgorica, or indeed to countries elsewhere in the region, such as macedonia, working hard to obtain candidate status. i only hope that this enforced wait, which now is inevitable and is frustrating to montenegro, will not result in a weakening of the country’s commitment to an engagement with the european union. montenegro should be judged solely on merit, facts and achievements. its case should not be tied to the progress in other neighbouring states in the western balkans. montenegro is a small country but a beautiful country, which has enjoyed remarkable stability and economic growth since its peaceful divorce from serbia. it has few, if any, internal ethnic or religious problems, unlike some of its larger neighbours. it has a minor border dispute with croatia, which it will resolve peacefully before the international court of justice. it has recently negotiated and ratified extradition treaties with both serbia and croatia in the fight against organised crime. it is euro-based: it has the euro without being in the eurozone, believe it or not. its economy remains undiversified – sadly – relying mainly on tourism and one aluminium smelter. it needs to create more jobs in hydroelectric power for export, and financial services may well be another solution. personally, i remain optimistic for what is essentially a very good news story in the western balkans.
madam president, the word on everybody’s lips, whatever the subject being discussed, is roma. i blame that mr sarkozy for pretending to expel them. i took it for granted that they would feature in the debate on the financial transactions tax. every time a roma horse dealer tried to charge an extra couple of euros a leg, out would jump a bowler-hatted tax-gatherer and sinner and demand one of the poor animal’s limbs as tribute to president barroso. when the time for the debate on the eu strategy on the atlantic arrived, i fully expected it to be proposed that a stretch of that ocean should be reserved for the water-borne branch of that noble tribe. they might sell fish hooks to passing boats and promise to cover hulls with a quantity of tarmacadam that they just had left over. i think we should find a particular member of the roma, preferably with disabilities and conflicting sexualities. we could then make this person president of the commission. he would start by selling this place off and nobody would dare to complain.
the debate is closed. i am sorry i have had to be so brutal with the speaking time but we are, as you can see, extraordinarily late in starting the next item on the agenda, which is question time. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0019/2011). before i start question time, because we are so late, i want to say a couple of things about the manner in which i will be conducting question time. i would be grateful if everybody would pay attention, including if i may ask politely, the commissioners who will be responding. i will take, by way of supplementary questions, only the author of the question because we do not have enough time to do more if we are to get through enough questions. i would ask the commissioners who are responding or delivering their first answer not, please, to read us a long essay. we would like a very nice answer and an informative answer to our question, so that you can have some dialogue with the questioner. the following questions are addressed to the commission.
i have no alternative in the circumstances we find ourselves in tonight. i am very sorry for all the questioners, but the best i can do is to get through as many questions as possible and let questioners have their moment. it is not a position i relish, and you will know, i think, that we are taking steps to move to a new more real form of question time to reflect the new situation we find ourselves in after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the sooner that happens, frankly the better, but let us now proceed. part one
question 16 by silvana koch-mehrin (h-000084/11) subject: energy-saving light bulbs is the commission aware of the study by the german federal environment agency, according to which energy-saving light bulbs pose a risk of causing poisoning, because of the mercury contained in them, if they break in the domestic environment? what conclusions does the commission draw from this study? is the commission prepared to reconsider its decision to withdraw conventional light bulbs from the market? is the commission prepared to suspend the ban on conventional light bulbs, at least for private households?
question 17 by claude moraes (h-000079/11) subject: victims' rights packages improving support for victims of crime is an important part of the stockholm programme. in particular, the issues surrounding assistance for the victims of cross-border crime in europe are of real concern to eu citizens. there are few practical procedures in place that offer support or advice to victims and families that have been caught up in the aftermath of crime and serious injury abroad. i am helping a constituent whose son was a victim of a violent attack whilst on holiday in crete. there is a real need for eu action in this area to fulfil the promise of a citizens’ europe. commissioner reding has announced a package of measures in relation to the protection of victims of criminal offences. in light of this, when does the commission intend to propose this package for victims of criminal offences? could the commission give more information as to what this legislative proposal will include? could the commission give some detail on the non-legislative measures that are to be included in the package?
as you know, we visited your office last week with maggie hughes, one of the many thousands of brave victims of crime. i have to say that, speaking to your staff, we are very excited that this could potentially be a package of measures that restores trust and added-value for citizens who need help when they are victims of crime. what maggie hughes and many other victims of crime have said to us is that they like the measures that you propose but that they want to see a concentration of help. for example, if there is a victim support office, it should be easily accessible and we should have individuals who help in the hospital, in the police cell and with the court system. this is what our citizens are asking for and, up until now, they have not received. so really this is a plea to you to make this the kind of potentially great proposal that it can be.
question 18 by marian harkin (h-000063/11) subject: commission proposals on a common consolidated corporate tax base can the commission give an explanation of the current situation with regard to the commission proposals on a common consolidated corporate tax base?
colleagues, i realise that there are some members who have come into the chamber since we started question time and will not be aware of the huge time constraint we have been under in order to try to make progress. the aim is to answer as many questions as possible. i therefore said at the beginning that i will not take any supplementaries, except from those members who have put questions. let me say at the moment that my aim is –and this depends to some extent on the length of commission replies – to take the following questions before 20.45, that is the questions from mrs jensen, mr papanikolaou, mr posselt and mrs ţicău. that is the plan.
members have already left this chamber because i have told them i could not deal with their question or i could not deal with supplementary questions. it has been a difficult afternoon. it continues to be a difficult evening. i have indicated those questions i want to take up to the time of 20.45. we will see how we can do, but really i am doing my best to be fair to all concerned and indeed to the commissioners who are waiting to participate.
mr higgins, i was actually about to make a statement before i gave the floor to the commissioner for what will be the last question because, believe you me, i am as angry as you. i do not like sitting here in these circumstances, having to disappoint a large number of members and having to keep a number of members of the commission waiting. the people i would like you to target are your group leaders and i say that again loud and clear: it is the group leaders who set the agenda and leave us in a situation, almost every plenary week, where we do no have enough time to deal properly with question time to the commission, or indeed when it has taken place, to the council. it is unsatisfactory; i have made my views known before; i would ask each and every member who cares about it to contact their group leaders and tell them what they think, because i am stuck with the agenda as i find it when i take over the chair and i do not enjoy it.
we have done two and now i am giving mr šemeta the question that is actually addressed to commissioner de gucht. that is why. i have to go through a certain order and i am sorry for that. i am sorry for the three of you, but i would suggest to you that, as commissioner rehn is, i know, a very sympathetic commissioner, i am sure that as he leaves the chamber he will be prepared to talk to the three of you. that is the only solution i can offer and i know that it is not satisfactory.
mr gallagher, i cannot trespass on the beginning of the next session. i have already indicated to mr posselt that i will take his question and to mrs ţicău that i would take her question, and indeed the question from the three of you would have been the last one if we had been going quicker, but we are not. it is difficult for me now to take even mr posselt’s question. that is the reality. i am really sorry and, as i said, i am angry but this is the situation we have been put in. you have seen what has happened all day with the agenda and it is not satisfactory. so i would like, if i may, to move, as i said, to the question put to commissioner de gucht and to be answered by mr šemeta, and i say with much regret that that will be the last question this evening.
i will be bringing it up with the group leaders because, i am sorry to say, that is where the problem lies: in the conference of presidents when they set the agenda. it is a question of too much material being put on the agenda before we get to question time. you are right. there needs to be some sort of line drawn to make sure that this period of time when members can hold the commission or the council to account is honoured. i agree with you and i will be tapping away at my computer first thing tomorrow morning, i assure you.
mrs ţicău, i wanted to take your question but i also said that the time constraint was that we had to stop at quarter to the hour and we reached that before we reached your question. that is the simple answer. i am sorry. as i say, i am not happy with the position that we have been put in, but there is nothing more i could have done tonight to try to get through more questions. i did not allow supplementaries in an attempt to achieve more for you, but i am sorry i have not been able to reach your question. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.50 and resumed at 21.05)
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr lange on an excellent report, and a substantive one, to make us think about the trends for industrial policy. as we come out of the biggest recession for the last 60 years, we really have to galvanise our industries to be competitive in global markets - backing small firms, boosting enterprise, and supporting all those who want to create jobs. so the linkage between innovation skills and sustainability is evident. not necessarily by using funds – we can do this by strengthening the internal market, trade promotion and providing a supportive framework for innovation. lastly, one element missing for me is the digital agenda. everyone in europe, every business, should have the right to have access to the best it, mobile and broadband at super speeds. were you aware, mr commissioner, that south korea fixed the aim last week to have, by the end of next year, internet speeds plugged into every home that will be 200 times faster than those in the average household in the us? as was said by one senior it executive, for europe's competitiveness one has to realise that it is much better enhanced by investing in it compared to physical infrastructure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this is an extraordinary debate. i agree with almost everything that daniel cohn-bendit has said today, which makes me a bit worried. as i have always said, gaddafi remains the fidel castro of africa, although not even castro would have resorted to such savage violence as we have seen recently from the gaddafi regime and his sociopathic sons against civilian protestors. last january, i drew attention to the fact that gaddafi used to be a huge sponsor of terrorism. now, of course, he stands accused of terrorising his own people. gaddafi spent a lot of money and time courting the west, trying to make us think he was a changed man. that has not happened, of course. with vast oil revenues at his disposal, he was able to dispense largesse in return for political acquiescence throughout europe and africa, not least in my own country the united kingdom, particularly under the previous government. our first priority now is to help bring an end to the senseless violence in libya. i was amongst the first in this house to call for a no-fly zone. i thank france and the united kingdom for pursuing this vigorously over the entire country to stop gaddafi bombing his own people and flying in mercenaries, mainly from algeria and sub-saharan africa. i believe that the security council – particularly with the russian and chinese veto at stake – may not sanction this issue of a no-fly zone. we should now seriously consider recognising the transitional national council in benghazi as the legitimate libyan government, so that it could invite military assistance in without the need for recourse to a un resolution. this would prevent further civilian massacres and give the pro-democracy rebels a real chance. fortunately, most eu citizens in libya were safely evacuated – and this was done efficiently – but it was clear to me that most eu member states were only interested in helping their own nationals. the maastricht treaty provisions that allow eu citizens, wherever they are, to seek consular protection from any member state in times of urgent need appeared to have been totally forgotten during the evacuation process.
mr president, the momentous events in north africa may have profound consequences for good or bad for the future prosperity and peace of western civilisation, but we are watching the outcome of a process that began 40 years ago. the west has been held to ransom by oil-producing states, and we have transferred billions upon billions of dollars to corrupt and despotic regimes. without oil, colonel gaddafi would have been nothing more than a local tinpot dictator. we have to hope that countries like libya produce democratic and liberal regimes – for their sakes and for our own – but we cannot rely on this. what western countries must do is concentrate funds and scientific research to find an alternative to oil. if there is one lesson in this crisis that we have to learn above all others, it is that western civilisations must not be dependent on others for their vital energy supplies.
mr president, ever since i was appointed as vice-president for democracy and human rights i have tried to use my voice to speak for those who cannot speak. as it happens, today in the chamber we have guests from the interim transitional national council of libya who met the vice-president/high representative last night but who cannot take part in the debate. in my view, and i think in the view of many in this chamber, the european union must recognise the interim transitional national council of libya before the weekend, whatever else it may do, and i have seen some of the ideas mrs ashton will bring forward. the defeat of gaddafi is not only vital for libya: it is vital for the millions of arabs elsewhere in the arab world who are struggling for freedom. if we recognise the interim council officially, it allows humanitarian and other needs, as well as the strategic necessities of the time, to go to that interim council. the eu must be unequivocal in support of democracy wherever it begins to flower.
mr president, i agree with everyone in this debate who calls on the european union to engage, to act and to exercise the responsibility to protect. i also welcome high representative ashton sending a mission into libya with less incident than, for example, one of our member states. but all those who talk tough in this debate, were you also talking tough during 42 years of a brutal military dictatorship? did you protest when 1 200 prisoners were murdered in cold blood over a decade ago? or against gaddafi’s historic litany of torture, enforced disappearance and extrajudicial execution? did you complain when the european commission started negotiations for a framework agreement with libya and which were on course to be happily completed this year? tough sanctions against departing dictators at a time of crisis look good to european public opinion, but tough standards before a time of crisis look even better for the people we say we are trying to help.
mr president, perhaps baroness ashton could comment on this. there has been practical unanimity in the house that recognition of the interim transitional national council, currently based in benghazi, by the european union would be an extremely important political signal which would allow humanitarian and other strategic aid into the country. she has not replied on that point. many speakers have raised it. perhaps she could just tell us what her views are and whether she could convey the message to the council on friday.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the prime minister has told us that we should do whatever needs to be done to stabilise the euro but, in fact, this is only the minimum that is required to be done. the liberal group here sees it as only the first step in a series of measures which will lead eventually to the construction of a coherent, credible economic government. the key is clearly that the mechanism is crafted so that it can in future be fully incorporated to the union system. it is important that the commission is to be on the board of mechanism and, above all, that the rules for the operation of the mechanism, including the terms of the strict conditionality, are prescribed by a regulation proposed by the commission and co-decided by parliament and the council. this is the first substantial change to the treaty of maastricht on economic and monetary union. it is critical that we get it right. i trust mr brok and mr gualtieri to negotiate further on behalf of parliament before 24 march. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to ask the speaker this: in his view, what mandate does the eu and the commission have for economic government? would the speaker not agree that, in the absence of a mandate, the party which he represents is neither liberal nor democratic?
mr president, i would say to the earl of dartmouth that the mandate for the construction of an economic and monetary union was clearly established by the treaty of maastricht, which was negotiated by a conservative british government and confirmed by the westminster parliament on several subsequent occasions. i have to say that if british members think they can play glibly with the future of the single currency, they are committing a profound mistake.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group is happy to support the treaty amendment proposed by the member states. we do so because we want the euro to survive and the countries that use it to prosper. we in the united kingdom are glad that we are not part of the euro, but we wish you well. while we support the treaty amendment, however, we do not support this report because what we have here is a wish list of unnecessary changes dreamt up at the last minute. it really is unfortunate that the parliament is behaving in this manner. such posturing is all the more bewildering given that we will vote on this opinion only hours before the european council formally agrees the treaty change. does anyone here really believe that the council is listening to us? if the parliament wants to be taken seriously, we must stop grandstanding and instead start delivering for the citizens of our member states.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i have been here six and a half years, and, my goodness, i have heard some nonsense. but i have not heard so much nonsense spoken as i have today. many years ago i used to lecture on this subject at cambridge university, and i would suggest that you would do well to read some of my old lecture notes. none of you, it appears, seems to understand the concept of international money. herr brok, who has not come off the phone since he came in only to listen to himself, was rather interesting. he started off this debate by suggesting it was a great success – the euro. one wonders what planet herr brok lives on. dear oh dear! it is a complete disaster. if he thinks it is such a success, i would argue that he speak to the millions of unemployed people, youngsters mainly in the iberian peninsula, southern italy and the rest of europe, who are suffering from this disgraceful, fraudulent and deceitful currency which was rammed down the throats of the people of europe against their will. there is no mandate, mr duff. there is no mandate, with your blue card hanging up there, let me tell you. there is no mandate for this. the british people have not been given a vote on this whole shebang of european union, and neither has anybody else. there is only one way this ridiculous currency spanning many different economies against a whole background of failed ideals can survive – and if you understood international money to any degree, you would understand this – and that is by having a financial, central, statist fiscal policy. if you think you have a mandate for that, you are a disgrace and a scoundrel. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to ask mr bloom just how his diatribe was received at cambridge. i cannot imagine an economics class tolerating such fatuous and intemperate nonsense. i would also like to ask him this: does he not find that there is unemployment in the united kingdom? does he not know of the excessive deficit position of the uk? does he not care that inflation in britain is greater than it is in the euro area and that sterling is a fragile currency?
mr president, i have to say to mr duff that at the time, in the mid-1990s, some of the class greeted my views with some scepticism. i still now go back to the occasional reunion dinner and most of them come up to me and say, ‘my god, godders, you were right.’ and i am, by god! i was right in spades, was i not? (applause)
mr president, there is a temptation for the british to regard the stability mechanism as something that has nothing to do with us, simply because we are outside the euro area. i think that would be a grave mistake. there is no doubt that there are many uk politicians, here and at home, who would like britain to join the euro. there was a pledge by all the parties that there would be a referendum before there was any attempt to join the euro, but we all know how valuable referendum promises are in the uk. both the labour party and the conservative party pledged to have a vote on the lisbon treaty. the former wriggled out of it on the spurious ground that the constitutional treaty and the lisbon treaty were different; the latter wriggled out of its obligation on the ground that the lisbon treaty had been ratified and therefore it was impossible to have a referendum. furthermore, the present government has decided there will be no referendum on this treaty change. the proposed amendment to the treaty provides for expensive involvement in the stability mechanism of those countries that are not in the euro area. the whole stability mechanism, of course, is an admission of the innate flaw in the euro experiment. a currency value should reflect the relative value of a country’s imports and exports – the state of its economy. a single currency cannot reflect accurately the state of 17 – or eventually 27 – different economies. our priority must be to make sure this disastrous experiment is never extended to the uk.
mr president, response to the sovereign aspects of the economic crisis was slow. initially the markets punished inadequate responses. recently there has been a respite. now some bond interest rates are creeping up again into the unsustainable zone. rescue arrangements that were made have been shown to need change and with the best will, i doubt that the next attempt will be one hundred percent correct, let alone future-proof. therefore we need a permanent funding mechanism that is flexible, not least to enable early intervention if that is the most effective remedy. this is not such a wild idea. the imf does it. but of course there have to be boundaries, priorities and governance. so we need a treaty change that enables evolution, not a treaty change that leads to embroilment in what is meant by ‘indispensable to the euro area as a whole’, which at the very least suffers from size discrimination. even strong euro area countries need the stability mechanism because of the interconnectedness of the banking system and sovereign debt. it is not a coincidence that the ecb calls for a fund large enough to cope with euro area bank recapitalisation. and on interest rates, a balance has to be struck between sustainability and moral hazard, but the end-of-the-day position cannot be that member states extract rent greatly in excess of costs.
mr president, treaty change is a sensitive subject in my member state where, despite promises, the lisbon treaty was passed without a referendum. but i understand why the crisis in the euro area is prompting you to establish a permanent stability mechanism, and although the uk is not a member of the euro area, we do wish to see your economic success. for these reasons my government has said that it will not block the treaty change required to establish the mechanism. but this resolution goes further, and we know from history that introducing vague language leads to uncertainties. the recitals raise the concept of eurobonds, woolly-worded and with no details. members from my group are concerned. does this hand over the sovereign right to manage one’s own treasury? what about moral hazard issues? to summarise, we will not vote against the treaty language agreed by member states, which is specifically to enable this mechanism to be created, but we cannot support this resolution with creeping, vague concepts.
mr president, i rise yet again to complain about the time management of this parliament. both yesterday and today we were given a time to vote, and we have abused it yet again. surely, the sign of a well run and effective parliament is one that can manage its affairs properly and to time. can you please urge the authorities to get a grip of this? otherwise, we will be treated with the contempt we deserve.
mr president, my point of order regards the first two votes we have today on the calendar for next year and the year after. i have two points to raise, if you please. first of all, these votes simply illustrate how powerless this parliament really is. everybody here thinks they are getting more and more power, and more and more influence. but in point of fact these amendments are simply to get round the fact that we are obliged to have 12 part-sessions(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would not normally rise on such a point. as a vice-president, i respect the chair. however, the groups have all been told that the calendar votes, which are very limited – i think there are two amendments – will take place at the beginning of the voting session and not after mr schmitt has spoken to the house. i think it is disrespectful to mr schmitt to allow people to go and then ask them to come back again for two votes after his speech. i therefore ask you to put to the house the proposal to modify the agenda that all votes today take place before mr schmitt’s speech, and we start on the basis of the calendar votes. (applause)
mr president, i am sorry to prolong this but as it happens the voting lists have been circulated to all the groups. if this was an error, it needs to be corrected. it is ridiculous, and disrespectful to the president of one of our member states and currently in the presidency, to call the members back to the house, back to the chamber, after he has spoken. let us do it now in the order in which it is on the voting paper. there is no justification for changing this again. (applause)
mr president, i want to give an explanation of vote on the calendar for 2012. of course what we were voting on was utter nonsense, because it does not address the problem of the three different parliaments: strasbourg, brussels and, of course, luxembourg, which everybody forgets about. the total combined costs, i believe, are something in the region of eur 250 million per month. what i would like to do is to offer a constructive suggestion. instead of meeting on twelve different occasions in strasbourg, why do we not meet on twelve different sessions in strasbourg in one week: first day – three sessions; second day – three sessions; third day – three sessions; fourth day – three sessions. that way we only need to spend one week a year here. we can spend the rest of the time in brussels if we have to, and we can save an enormous amount of cost and an enormous amount of inconvenience.
mr president, there is something extraordinary about the monthly peregrination of this parliament between the two seats. we preach fiscal rectitude and yet we spend hundreds of millions of pounds a month on shifting our interpreters and our committee clerks and all the members. we talk about global warming and yet we emit thousands of tonnes of greenhouse gases as fleets of lorries transport the necessary documentation back and forth. i know there is an argument that members of this house make for the symbolic significance of strasbourg and the historic idea, and so on, and i am rather attracted to the idea that the eu, as a club of nations, should share the institutions around rather than concentrating everything in brussels. but let us have one seat, one way or the other. why do we not simply put it to this house that we should meet either permanently here in this handsome alsatian town or we should meet permanently in brussels? either way, let us cut out the waste and let us, in this time of austerity, try and return some savings to our hard-pressed taxpayers.
mr president, the eu’s attitude to turkey will one day be regarded as a generational error, as an ethical mistake. we could have reasonably pursued one of two policies. either we could have worked with goodwill towards eventual accession, or we could have said at the outset ‘look, accession is not going to happen, let us work out an alternative arrangement’. instead, we have held out the promise of eventual accession with our fingers crossed behind our backs. we have made promises which we have no intention of fulfilling. now, look at it from ankara’s point of view. would they have made a series of difficult and painful concessions on broadcasting, on secularism, on cyprus, above all, where turkish cypriots voted in favour of the eu plan and where isolated greek cypriots rejected it and were rewarded? we have made them grovel about the armenian massacres, we have imposed tens of thousands of pages of the acquis communautaire on them, and then at the end of this process we are going to turn around and flick two fingers at them! we risk creating the very thing we purport to fear: namely an alienated and anti-western state on our doorstep. turks defended europe’s flank against bolshevik expansionism for 50 years. we may one day ask them to do the same against jihadi extremism. they deserve better than this.
in writing. − mr president, i would ask fellow meps to imagine for a moment that they are in business. you currently have two factories, but by having only one factory you could increase productivity while reducing costs by £150 million and protecting the environment. it is what your shareholders want. what businessman in his right mind would keep two factories? yet, fellow meps, we are actually in business, the business of government and, crucially, of overseeing the spending of our constituents’ – our shareholders’ – money. we waste £150 million each year by having 11 sessions here in strasbourg. in a house that obsesses with green policy, some choose to needlessly pump 20 000 tonnes of carbon monoxide into the environment. i commend mr fox on his work to at least bring some modicum of common sense in 2012 and 2013.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 1, which deletes the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2012. i see this as a small step in cutting the waste involved in travelling from brussels to strasbourg.
in writing. − according to european law, 12 plenary sessions must take place every year at the strasbourg seat of the european parliament. the vote on the changing the calendar to allow two of these strasbourg sessions to take place within the same week reflects our desire as meps to cut costs and co2 emissions. travelling to strasbourg is expensive and the increased travel causes extra co2 emissions. i therefore support this report, which will enable us to hold the required 12 plenary sessions in 11 weeks, thus cutting the cost and environmental impact of our work. as an mep i wish to represent the best interests, economically and environmentally, of my constituents. i also call on the uk government to raise the issue with other member states, as it is the council’s responsibility.
in writing. − i believe that holding two separate plenary sessions in october is unnecessary. the eu treaties require parliament to hold 12 sessions in strasbourg each year. however they allow for two sessions to be held in the one week. by stopping the practice of travelling to strasbourg twice in one month the parliament can set an example in reducing its co2 emissions and saving public money.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 1 which deleted the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2013. as with the decision on the 2012 calendar, this is a contribution to cutting parliament's costs.
in writing. − i voted against the fernandes report on budget priorities for 2012 because the european parliament is still going to look for a 5% increase in its budget even though the rest of the european institutions will confine themselves to 1%. the cost of the eu is in fact unsustainable for the nations of europe and needs to be reduced. i am appalled at the european house of history being approved as part of this report: it is a 70-million-euro-and-counting vanity project which is completely at odds with the supposed claims of austerity.
in writing. − mr president, when this house considers budget priorities, it does so in the context of massive public sector cuts in eu member states, rising unemployment, increasing household bills and overall economic uncertainty, both nationally and in many families. in this extremely serious and challenging context, what does the eu consider to be a priority? remarkably, one priority is a european house of history. i would hazard a guess that if my constituents were to be asked if this represents 100 million well spent at this time, few – if any – would say yes. it is time for this place – meps, the commission and officials – to get real. priorities must be in the best interests of our constituents and aimed at making their lives easier. eu money must not be wasted solely for the fulfilment of those obsessed with pushing their idealistic notions of a shared eu history or identity. such self-indulgence must end.
in writing. − i welcome this report which makes clear that parliament expects the bureau to submit realistic requests when presenting the estimates, is ready to examine its proposals on a fully needs-based and prudent basis in order to ensure appropriate and efficient functioning of the institution, stresses that the purpose of the amending letter presented by the bureau to the committee on budgets in september is to take into account needs unforeseen at the time the estimates were drawn up and stresses that it should not be seen as an opportunity to renew estimates previously agreed. following the interinstitutional line, the enlargement-related needs shall be integrated either in an amending letter or amending budget, and the needs for the 18 new meps following the lisbon treaty will be also integrated by an amending letter or amending budget.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the eu strategy for the atlantic region which is of the opinion that this strategy should be set within the cohesion policy objective of territorial cooperation (objective 3), and be based on an integrated, cross-domain and territorial approach, aiming at better coordinating policies between the various levels of governance on a given territory, with a focus on relevant issues, and is convinced that european territorial cooperation can contribute widely to the intensification of the integration process within the atlantic region through a greater participation by civil society in the decision-making process and the implementation of concrete actions.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which commends turkish citizens and civil society for supporting turkey’s further democratisation and for their commitment to an open and pluralistic society but notes turkey’s slow progress with regard to reforms and recalls that the turkish government has committed itself to undertaking comprehensive reforms both with a view to fulfilling the copenhagen criteria and for the sake of turkey’s own modernisation, and calls on the government to increase its efforts in that respect.
in writing. − i supported this report which recognises the constitutional changes which have taken place in turkey but also addresses areas which remain problematic, such as their failure to implement the ankara protocol. by encouraging turkey to continue carrying out reforms the european parliament hopes to see improvements in human rights and equality laws which will benefit turkish citizens.
in writing. − i have been consistently supportive of turkey’s accession process while fully aware of serious concerns that have to be addressed. the progress report 2010 is a reasonably balanced document and i have voted in favour of it in spite of a number of reservations – not least over the cyprus issue, where i much regret that the amendments calling for fulfilment of the eu council's promise to end the isolation of northern cyprus were voted down. turkey has a pivotal role to play as a gateway between west and east and we should be sending positive and welcoming signals.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which welcomes the general consensus and high priority given to european integration by the government and opposition parties in montenegro, which has resulted in good progress in the reform process since the independence of the country, and which welcomes the new political leadership in podgorica and encourages the new government to continue montenegro’s european integration process and speed up the reforms leading to fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria. it also welcomes the european council decision of 17 december 2010 to grant montenegro the status of candidate country for accession to the european union, but regrets, however, the decoupling of candidate status from the right to open negotiations, stressing that the decision to start them should not be unduly or unreasonably postponed, and expects the negotiations to start at the latest after the publication of the 2011 commission progress report, provided montenegro makes good progress in fulfilling the benchmarks set by the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which would see montenegro achieve candidate status for the european union. it also highlights the issues of equality and corruption which need to be tackled within montenegro and calls for measures to be taken to tackle these problems.
in writing. − the ecr group is wholeheartedly supportive of the inclusion and integration of the roma people within member states and the european union. equal access to the public service sector and the labour market, and freedom from discrimination are essential for all people regardless of race, ethnicity, or heritage. we also strongly support the report’s aims regarding eu funds being better spent and better allocated in order to fully support the roma people. however, some sections of the report which discuss health, education, and employment are areas which we believe should be legislated by member states.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the plight of the roma – the most marginalised group in the european union. the resolution sets out practical steps for improving the health, education and welfare of the roma. it includes measures to improve their access to the labour market and to decent housing. this resolution offers an opportunity for the roma to be better integrated into society.
in writing. − i supported this report which aims to combat discrimination against the roma people and calls on member states to produce policies for their integration into the labour market. the roma people is one of the most marginalised groups in the eu, which is why we need to ensure that action is taken to tackle the social exclusion that they face.
in writing. − i agree with this report that an eu strategy to promote strong and skilled human resources with a strong creative potential and active involvement in innovation and development, new and innovative technologies/processes/solutions which generate added value, r&d geared to the needs of sustainable development, an efficient supply chain for the production of high-quality goods and services, more efficiently organised production and management systems, overall greater resources efficiency that leads to reduced carbon footprint, cost-efficient and sustainable modes of transport, smart and efficient logistics and high-quality infrastructure, a consolidated and fully operational single internal market and a level playing field in trade relations with third countries, is the only means of increasing the sustainability and competitiveness of european industry and thus maintaining its global leadership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which highlights ways in which the eu's industrial base may be strengthened. industry provides roughly a third of employment in the eu, which is why it is so vital that we ensure its ongoing viability.
in writing. − i supported this report as it sets out the need for a coherent policy on the future of industry across the eu. with over 60 million jobs in the eu generated by industrial manufacturing, a robust policy will help the eu overcome some of the challenges faced by manufacturers. making up part of the eu’s 2020 strategy, this report outlines 15 ‘cornerstones’ of a strong policy which will ensure that the eu can keep up with competitors from the us, china and japan, who invest heavily in research and development into cutting-edge technology, and countries that are able to cut costs through cheap labour and have less stringent intellectual property rules. some of the most useful recommendations in the report include the need for an innovation chain which links industry-related research to innovation and application of the technology, and an increased emphasis on resource efficiency and sustainability which ties in with the aims of the europe 2020 strategy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, high representative, iran to me represents the most serious threat to global security. president ahmadinejad is determined to arm his country with nuclear weapons and the prospect of a nuclear-armed iran is too terrifying to contemplate, posing an existential threat to israel. this is why we must consider all options, including military ones, to prevent it. iran has deceived and obstructed the international community time and time again. sadly, the european union has at times allowed itself to be manipulated by ahmadinejad. while the council regularly denounces the barbaric theocratic regime in teheran, individual member states have sometimes taken a less robust approach. indeed, it is only a few months ago that eu leaders agreed to proscribe export credit guarantees to iran. until then, these guarantees represented a vital lifeline of an economic nature to the regime which craves any vestige of legitimacy, not least because of ahmadinejad’s contempt for human rights, as evidenced by the regular execution of homosexuals, political dissenters and minors. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly so as to permit interpretation).
mr president, human rights defenders in iran are subject to death threats, acts of harassment, arbitrary arrest, judicial harassment, stigmatisation, violent attacks, ill treatment, torture and killings. women human rights defenders are particularly at risk in iran. freedoms of expression, association and assembly are severely restricted in iran and often come with severe penalties. the death penalty is also arbitrarily used, especially on minors. however, what i find considerably disturbing is how the european union actually deals with iran. once again our high representative seems to talk a lot but do very little. i have often, and i repeat it again today, invited her to the subcommittee on human rights to actually be questioned on her activities in the area of human rights. she has told us today how important human rights are to her, but when has she ever come to the human rights subcommittee? she is willing to send her underlings, but she is not willing to have a democratic cross-examination by this house. she will listen to our speeches, come up with some rambling, pre-prepared statement and then go home. that is not democracy, ms ashton. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i do not want to take up too much time. i just want to ask ms sinclaire this: when the high representative comes to a special plenary sitting of the whole parliament to discuss the annual human rights report and is cross-questioned by meps from across the whole parliament, does she not think that this is a more satisfactory way for us to hold the high representative to account on the human rights record than asking her to attend the subcommittee of the parliament, even one that i dearly cherish?
mr president, with respect to my colleague, it is actually not satisfactory because as he knows – and if he spent as much time in the human rights subcommittee as i do, he would – it is in committees that we actually get a chance to have more than one say and more than one minute, and then we actually get a direct response. i have made many comments on the issues of human rights and i have yet to have one reply from baroness ashton – one reply – so how is that? i repeat that this is about democracy. i represent five million people. i have been elected here. baroness ashton has not received a vote in her life.
mr president, first of all i congratulate mr belder on his excellent report. iran has the potential influence and wealth to be either a force for good or a force for evil in the greater middle east. regrettably its regime has become a force for evil masquerading in religious garb. iran’s nuclear weapon programme is cause for enormous regional and international concern. iran has become a source of extremist doctrine, it carries out and sponsors acts of international terrorism, has a dangerous influence on populations of young shias in the gulf states, in iraq and in lebanon and does not hesitate to ally with sunni terrorist groups in gaza and beyond. it has helped train and arm terrorists that have attacked nato forces in afghanistan and it is a human rights abuser. it would be tragically ironic if a tyranny such as iran became the main beneficiary of the desire for greater freedom that we have seen so dramatically expressed across the arab world in recent weeks and in a most sickening example of hypocrisy – i am just finishing mr president – president ahmadinejad has told the egyptian people that they have the right to express their own views about their country. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i shall start by welcoming yesterday’s appointment of mariangela zappia as head of delegation in geneva. her appointment contributes to advancing gender equality in the external action service. we look forward to working with her. our parliament will be present at a crucial time for the review of the human rights council, as the global fulcrum for respect of human rights, the universal periodic review of all un members, the independence of its experts or so-called special procedures, and the enhanced role for civil society participation. they are key characteristics of the council that we should work to protect at all costs. i am disappointed that the outcome document for the working group on the review omits any independent trigger for special sessions, that there is no requirement for member countries to justify failure to respond to recommendations, and that there is no provision at all for addressing specific country situations. it is ironic that this session will address seven individual country situations. as it is doing in the cases of libya and côte d’ivoire, the eu must continue to find creative ways within existing rules to make sure that human rights violators can never escape accountability. to show in this debate that the high representative does answer questions, can i ask her three in particular? firstly, given what she said about the democratic republic of the congo, will europeans support the appointment of a special mandate holder for that country? secondly, does she accept that, at some stage, a judgment has to be made as to whether the palestinian and israeli investigations in relation to the goldstone report meet international standards, with a deliberation on the possible referral to the international criminal court if they do not? thirdly, will the eu lodge an objection to pakistan’s reservation on article 40 – the obligation to report – of the international covenant of civil and political rights? in conclusion, i believe that libya’s suspension from the human rights council creates a historic precedent for respect for human rights in the un system, which in these dark days shines a light on the silver thread.
mr president, the fact that libya was a member of the un human rights council tells us everything we need to know about this discredited and politicised organisation. gaddafi’s 42-year rule has systematically crushed any vestige of human rights in his country and we have now seen the consequences of the culture of violence on which his reign-of-terror regime was based. however, it would be unfair to single out just libya. other human rights abusers also enjoy membership of the council, including china, cuba, saudi arabia, pakistan and uganda, where homosexuals are persecuted. bizarrely, it was even mooted that iran should head up the women’s equality commission at one stage. the unhrc also spends much of its time vilifying our democratic ally israel. however, i suppose, on reflection, that this council is all that there is on human rights at un level, so we will have to engage, albeit fully cognisant of the inherent contradictions of having brutal non-democratic regimes as members of the un human rights council.
mr president, i would like to say to baroness ashton that she did not answer my colleague jan zahradil in the last debate on iran on the question of camp ashraf. the 3 400 people there are suffering psychological torture. this is a breach of their human rights. we give eur 1.2 billion to the rebuilding of iraq and yet every time we pass a resolution in this house, every time we pass a written declaration with a big majority, we are simply ignored by the iraqi government and by their iranian cohorts. they are psychologically torturing the people in camp ashraf with 210 loudspeakers blaring propaganda and threats at a high-decibel level day and night for the last year. they are prohibiting access to medicines and the hospital for injured people and people dying of cancer. why are we not saying, ‘stop, or you get no more help, no more money, from this house’?
mr president, i would like to ask the high representative, in the light of all of the events that are going on in libya at the moment and the much vaunted anguish that we rightly display about the violation of human rights in libya, whether she will support the cause of those people in the united kingdom who had relatives, friends and loved ones blown up by semtex or killed by guns that were supplied by colonel gaddafi and his murderous regime in libya. will she support their case in any new regime that would emerge from the conflict in libya?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, baroness ashton, i am deeply concerned about the progress of the situation in iraq. the recent uprising there – when the people took to the streets, particularly young people who cannot get jobs, who see the broken economy, the continuing lack of security and sectarian killings – was brutally repressed. twenty nine people were killed, many hundreds were injured. there is now an indication that ayad allawi, whose al-iraqiya party won the election last march, is going to withdraw from the coalition because prime minister nouri al-maliki has defaulted on the many promises that he made to al-iraqiya in the coalition deal. if that happens, we are going to be back to square one, with a sectarian government, backed by both al-hakim and muqtada al-sadr at the behest of tehran, and we will have a destabilised situation where the party who won the election is no longer in government. that cannot be acceptable surely, in terms of the future of the middle east.
mr president, the wind of change blowing through the middle east promised democratisation, and no true democrat can deny that the people of egypt, tunisia and now libya deserve both freedom and democracy. i can also fully agree with the high representative that these events, rather than being a distraction, demand a refocusing of our attention on the peace process. in recent visits to the area i found an understandably nervous israeli people. past experiences have seen political vacuums filled by hamas and hezbollah. in this situation we must consider how best we can help, both in the peace process and in the stability of the region. recognition of israel’s need for security and the validity of agreements with neighbouring countries are important cornerstones. we must also admit that the neighbourhood policy has failed. we currently spend eur 1.5 billion per year on this policy. we must assess the tangible benefits of this. if we consider egypt, where tens of thousands of people are added to the labour market each year with no economic future and no hope, perhaps we should realistically acknowledge that the seeds of further revolution are already there.
mr president, there cannot be a greater friend of israel in the european union than germany, so it is quite something to read that chancellor merkel has been shouting at prime minister netanyahu, saying ‘you have done nothing to promote peace, give me something’. quite something! she is right of course. israel has played for time. it likes talks about talks because all that time gives it the opportunity to keep changing the facts on the ground and making a two-state solution that much harder to achieve. high representative, you have the power to make a difference. here is the statement of the european union from last month on the association agreement: six pages of condemnation of human rights abuses and illegality and infringements by israel – and yet a summary which says we seek closer cooperation with israel. what is this about? is it surprising that palestinians regard the european union as having double standards? you are putting your trust in pleasant dialogue. but israel just thinks we are weak, weak, weak. and until you use your power, until you stand up and use a word to israel which they are not used to hearing, nothing will change. that word is ‘no’.
mr president, whilst good libyan people are being bombed and terrorised by mr gaddafi, the eu has been shelling out on projects for libya like ‘enhancing respect for international humanitarian law’. it is pretty obvious that has not worked. meanwhile, baroness ashton here is demanding yet more resources, on top of the almost eur 3 billion the external action service is due to receive. instead of being immersed further in this bloated, duplicating and insatiable eu foreign service and european defence agency, britain should spend the gbp 48 million a day we pay for eu membership on our own national defence interests. the libyan crisis has shown the value of having aircraft carriers with fast jets stationed off crisis zones. i appeal to david cameron to see sense and reprieve both the carrier hms ark royal, and at least a minimum number of harriers. during the falklands crisis mrs thatcher successfully reprieved the ark’s sister ship, hms invincible. we must do the same for the ark royal.
mr president, the eu is part of the quartet but sadly there is currently not much progress in the peace process between israel and the palestinians. stalemate is likely to continue as long as there is so much unrest and uncertainty in the arab world. certainly from israel’s point of view – and i declare i am vice-president of the european friends of israel – the unpredictable situation in egypt is diverting attention away from the peace process. i welcome the commitment by the military government in egypt to honour the 1979 peace treaty with israel. let us hope that the muslim brotherhood do not prevail in cairo. whatever happens, we should make sure that future eu aid to egypt is conditional on retention of the peace treaty with israel. indeed, the fact that part of the putative future palestinian state is ruled by hamas, which is committed still to israel’s annihilation, is surely the biggest obstacle to peace. iran also constitutes a threat to the very existence of israel. peace in the region will never be possible as long as tehran continues to fund and arm the fanatics of hezbollah in lebanon. therefore i understand the recent concern in israel at the passage of two iranian warships through the suez canal on their way to syria, which is the first time this was allowed to happen since 1979. egypt getting closer to iran is a very alarming trend. therefore i wish the high representative every success in this diplomatic minefield which lies ahead.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this memorandum requires an eur 1 per hour reduction in the minimum wage in ireland and a review, as we have heard, of the system of collective pay agreements which protect the low paid. i do not believe that this interference can be justified. the treaty requires the commission to promote social dialogue, not undermine it. article 152 requires respect for the autonomy of social partners, not this type of interference, and article 153 expressly excludes eu action in the field of play. the commission cannot pick and choose the hierarchy of articles in this respect. the memorandum goes on to insist on cuts in social welfare, the roll-back of key public services, and reductions in public sector employment and public sector pensions. how can those demands be justified in relation to a treaty that requires the union to aim to eliminate inequalities, promote a high level of employment, guarantee adequate social protection and fight against social exclusion? the only honest answer to that is that these things cannot be reconciled, and the problem is that these things have now, as a result of the annual growth survey, become the general rule. the people will reject the idea of a europe based only on austerity. they will not tolerate the far-reaching implications for social policies with lower wages, lower employment protection, weak social standards, reduced public services and the imposition of higher retirement ages. if we want to continue to swell the ranks of anti-europeanism, then carry on, commission. if not, please stop this nonsense now.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this goes beyond ireland; only a month ago i reminded the house that pensions were exclusively the competence of the member states and here we go again using the same language of coordination and retirement-setting mechanisms. now pensions are almost always related to earnings, so do we see here an attempt to harmonise wages? i hope not, because the treaties also say that wages are an exclusive competence of the member states. it is all very well to say that ‘equal’ must mean equal pay, but should all workers doing the same job get the same pay across the eu? as an example, think ‘climate’: keeping a house warm near the arctic circle needs much more money than in mediterranean countries. add in winter clothing, snow clearance and all the rest and it is obvious that to pay all workers the same would leave some with more spare cash than others. of course wages cannot be equal. the commission’s intentions in drawing up plans to encourage member states to introduce an eu minimum wage policy and set retirement mechanisms are going against the treaties. i am not surprised: this is the eu at work. a harmonised wage and pensions policy is not just a dream, it is illegal. leave it, as the treaties demand, to the competence of elected governments like mine at westminster and like that in ireland.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, summers are hotter and storms are more severe. rainfall is more erratic and we have more droughts causing life-threatening fires across our continent. hardly a country has escaped a natural disaster in the last few years and this is not counting the man-made catastrophes such as chernobyl and more recently the toxic dam in hungary. citizens look to their elected representatives to ensure the planning for their protection is efficient and reliable and in place. we have had many promises and reports from the commission, yet little concrete action has been forthcoming. we have been promised progress in setting up a network of competent national services in member states. a map of assets, that is readily available and ready to use when disaster strikes, was promised in 2009. national authorities should now be requested to put core equipment on standby, available for rapid european assistance when needed. in my own region, we have in bracknell the world-renowned medium-range weather forecasting centre. its information assists mariners, aircraft and emergency planners from a range of real-time sources around the world, but we need more than these sorts of facilities. we need to know where the trained emergency service teams are. we need to know where the emergency food supplies, the tents and the blankets are. we need to know where the facilities are that will save the lives of citizens of our union when they need them. the commission must come forward with these plans now. tomorrow’s disaster may be just around the corner.
author. − mr president, i welcome the opportunity that this oral question gives us to revisit the problems experienced by travellers and the wider aviation industry during last year’s icelandic volcano crisis. what became clear last year was that member states and the eu as a whole had no plan for such an eventuality, the data used was incomplete, the meteorologists could not or, indeed, would not help and everybody perfected the art of blaming someone else and adopted a policy of risk aversion rather than one of risk management. to be frank, mr president, member states bottled it last year. but, mr president, that was then. what about the future? do we have a comprehensive plan to cover the next volcanic eruption? should this happen, will member states coordinate at eu level in future? crucially, will they involve the aviation industry and, particularly, airlines before they issue their advice? we have to avoid the mistakes made last year which gave us the nonsense of one country closing its airspace whilst a neighbouring country kept theirs open, leading to chaos, confusion and huge economic consequences. finally mr president, the icelandic volcano highlighted one major thing: it has strengthened the argument for a single european sky better than any politician could have done. our role now is to develop and deliver this as a matter of urgency, even though, as usual, the member states are back to their old habits of dragging their feet on this much-needed project.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it has been said in the debate but i will reiterate that we are all aware of the huge extent of the disruption caused by the volcanic ash cloud. as has been mentioned, over 100 000 flights were cancelled, tens of millions of business and holiday passengers were not able to travel as planned, goods and cargo were delayed or not transported at all, businesses were affected and our european carriers and airports suffered catastrophic financial losses. all in all, it cost the european airlines more than eur 2 billion. institutions across europe and in member states who were responsible for dealing with such issues were absolutely paralysed and, quite frankly, if it had not been so serious it would have been practically laughable. in all this chaos, one thing was clear. air transport is enormously important for the european economy and as individuals we depend on a thriving and efficient air transport industry where safety for crew and passengers is the first prerogative. as such i am delighted to support this oral question, not least because during our previous plenary debate on this issue i called for the european union to look at international best practice on dealing with volcanic ash and more particularly highlighted america, which has always applied a more measured approach in this regard. i certainly welcomed the fact that the commission, in its assessment of the crisis, accepted that europe needed to revise procedures through the international civil aviation organization. international best practice tells us that responsibility for dealing with potential hazards related to volcanic ash must be transferred to the airline operators as part of their safety management systems. the role of the authorities is to audit the airline safety management system to ensure that it meets the required safety standards. this is the procedure applied by the us and other countries which have managed to deal with volcanic eruptions without major disruptions to air traffic. clear and decisive joined-up leadership is essential and we need the european aviation safety agency to ensure that eu member states adapt their current procedures to guarantee that airline operators will take responsibility and be supported in making such decisions in future. lastly, the crisis in april and may last year made it absolutely clear that as a priority we need to push for the full implementation of the single european sky and sesar. both european industry and the taxpayer have already invested huge sums of money in these projects and as european lawmakers we must continue to push forward well balanced, cost-effective and structural reforms. i welcome the comments by the commissioner today. let us hope that we move forward now in a positive way.
mr president, like other members here, i am not a member of the committee on transport and tourism but i come from northern ireland, an island on the edge of europe. you can, therefore, imagine how vitally important good air and sea connections are, not only for our economy, but also for personal travel. i have been dealing over the last number of months, indeed even this week, with residual cases from individual constituents who have been affected by this particular crisis. at the time of the volcanic ash crisis, the costs were estimated to be in excess of gbp 200 million a day in uk flights alone. therefore, in order to avoid this, we must have much greater cooperation and much more cognizance of best practice so that we have a plan in place to prevent future disruptions and such a horrendous impact on the economy. as i have said, i have had a lot of complaints from individual constituents, most of which centred on the airlines, their treatment of these individuals and their failure to recognise their duty of care. i would ask the commission to look at this as well.
mr president, the volcanic ash cloud crisis caused huge disruption during last april and into may. as mrs foster said, many of us realised how dependent we are on modern air travel. certainly when you come from where i come from, where it is impossible to get to your work unless you use the aeroplane, then that really brings it home to you. everybody who travelled during that time probably has stories to tell, and some people were very badly affected. in addition, the economic losses airlines and other businesses suffered as a result of grounded flights and stranded passengers were substantial. people have said that this could happen again. i think this is what we have to got to be prepared for, because there did seem to be an awful lot of indecision. let me be very honest: as someone who flies every week, when i am up there at 39 000 feet i want above all to be safe and secure, so i do not ever argue about security. we have got to make sure that the safety of the passengers is paramount. i think that is the overlying situation that we should support.
in writing. – the closure of large sectors of european air space in april and may last year due to the volcanic eruption in iceland caused severe traffic disruption and economic damage and affected 10 million passengers directly. i believe the primary responsibility for the safety of flights rests with the operators, therefore they must be provided with accurate data. pilots are trained to manage extraordinary flight conditions, the commercial airlines’ safety manuals are reviewed, overseen and confirmed by regulatory authorities, and airlines have the necessary experience of operating over volcanic areas, as is shown by their safety record. the airline operator (the pilot) should therefore be responsible for assessing the risk and ensuring the safety of flights by, for example, choosing routes or deciding if rerouting is necessary, taking into account all the information available (provision of more information and improved technical equipment on board aircraft). i hope the commission will liaise with the appropriate authorities to ensure that in the future they are allowed to get on with their job.
mr president, in view of what we have just been speaking about, i would like to say that security in this building has been stepped up and i wish to extend our thanks to the men and women who protect us. i would like your reassurance that the investigation into brussels security breaches, some involving firearms, is being vigorously pursued. these breaches have put our staff, our guests and ourselves at serious risk. may i also have your assurance that senior management will be held accountable where appropriate, and that these soldiers will not be sacrificed in order to protect the generals? (applause)
madam president, i simply would like to take the opportunity to say thank you to the 400 colleagues from across this house who signed written declaration 81; i would also like to say thank you to my staff for all their hard work and to the written declaration services for their support, but most of all i would like to thank the campaigners whose dedication made this possible. i am proud to be a member of a parliament where it is possible for ordinary citizens to come and to make their case and where meps listen and are persuaded. that is democracy at its best and it shows that the european parliament is not remote from its people.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
madam president, before pronouncing on media freedom in hungary, we might care to look at what we do as a parliament. we might like to think about the hundreds of thousands of euros in public subsidies that we give to the european union of journalists; we might like to think of the tens of thousands of euros that we spend every week flying local reporters, in particular, out to brussels and strasbourg in order to show them a good time; and we might like to think of the way in which dozens of accredited correspondents in brussels are getting second incomes as advisers on media issues or editors or writers on eu-funded free sheets. if i were a hungarian, i would have serious questions about not just the media law, but the creeping autocratic tendencies of the government; but i am not a hungarian, it is not my business. i am, however, a member of this house and i think the way in which we use taxpayers’ money in this nakedly propagandist way is something that ought to offend our basic principles of decency, fairness and democracy. we should cantilever the great tree trunk out of our own eye, before we start worrying about the speck in that of hungary.
madam president, those calling for military intervention – and a no-fly zone is of course a form of military intervention, requiring as it does a willingness to strike at air facilities on the ground – should remember three points. first, as we have heard, the libyan opposition does not want foreign intervention. there are posters up all over benghazi saying so. second, the gaddafi regime does want foreign intervention: it would justify the dictator’s argument that he is defending his country against foreign invaders. third, we cannot afford it. the first ship in the area after the humanitarian crisis began was hms cumberland from our own country, which was in the area because she was on her way to be scrapped! and our navy still has more reach than those of most of the other member states. there might have been an argument for some direct strike against the gaddafi regime in the 1980s when it was plainly engaged in international terrorism. it is striking that those who are now demanding some form of intervention were not in favour of such action when it would have been justifiable under the norms of international law. there is something disgusting about the spectacle of all these european leaders fawning and slobbering over this appalling regime. we have made quite enough problems for ourselves by our interventions to date. i think we have done quite enough.
madam president, the iranian revolution of 1979 will one day be seen as an epochal event on a par with the french revolution of 1789 or the russian revolution of 1917. like them, it immediately spilled out from behind its borders and sought to replicate itself around the world; like them it disregarded all established norms of international law, of national sovereignty, of territorial jurisdiction. what was the signature act of the revolution? it was the siege of the us embassy. now stop and ponder for a moment how extraordinary that was, given the precedent of relations between countries. even in the second world war, when mutually opposed ideologies fought to extirpate each other, diplomats were peaceably evacuated through neutral countries. if the united states were to invade cuba tomorrow, one assumes that there would be a peaceable exchange of diplomatic personnel. what the iranians were signalling was that their rules did not match ours; they no longer cared about the idea of state sovereignty and they have carried on as they started, sponsoring their militias from the silk road khanates to the balkans, even as far afield as buenos aires. we would be in a stronger position to condemn such a regime if we in the european union gave a little more regard to the principle of national sovereignty and the principle of national self-determination.
in writing. − the ecr wholeheartedly supports a free and plural media across the european union and stresses the importance of freedom of information for all european citizens. however, given the constantly changing situation surrounding the hungarian media law and a lack of opportunity to meet the commission following the new amendments to this law which were adopted this week, we feel that now is not the appropriate time to have another resolution on the issue. for this reason the ecr group has abstained.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe the hungarian media law should be suspended as a matter of urgency and reviewed on the basis of the commission’s, the osce’s and the council of europe’s comments and proposals, in order to ensure that it is fully in conformity with eu law and european values and standards on media freedom, pluralism and independent media governance.
in writing. − i am very pleased that this resolution was passed highlighting the european parliament’s commitment to freedom of expression and the independence of the media throughout member states.
in writing. − i welcome the push for democracy in libya and in neighbouring countries. i call for full respect of human rights in the region. however, i abstained on this resolution because of its call for a no-fly zone. to enforce a no-fly zone we would have to bomb anti-aircraft missile sites, with a threat to civilian life. we would also allow the regime to claim that the west was attacking libya, rather than attempting to defend the people of libya.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which condemns the human rights situation in iran and calls for measures to be taken to prevent iran becoming a nuclear power. i am concerned that the resolution recognises ‘iran’s right to enrich uranium’ which is of course correct under the rules of the iaea, but, given the continuing impasse in the negotiations, is contrary to the un security council resolutions.
in writing. − i am pleased that mr belder was able to bring this report to the house and successfully push through elements concerning human rights in iran, in particular the strong condemnation of the detention of iranian opposition leaders mir hossein mousavi and mehdi karroubi, together with their wives. however, i do not agree that iran has a ‘right to enrich uranium’, which is allowed under iaea rules but, given the continuing impasse over negotiations, is contrary to un security council resolutions.
in writing. − i supported this report as i strongly believe that the iranian government should respond positively to the iranian people’s demands for basic freedoms and improved social and economic conditions. through this report the european parliament condemns the use of the death penalty as well as numerous other abuses of human rights.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which emphasises the interdependence of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights and points out that access to water is a human right. i particularly welcome the adoption of amendment 19 calling for a follow-up to the goldstone report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the important role that the eu plays in working with the human rights council. given recent events in libya, it is crucial that we continue to campaign for and seek to defend human rights at an international level.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
author. − mr president, i think all of us have been very deeply shocked and appalled by the assassination of minister shahbaz bhatti, not least because he is someone known to us in this parliament: he has visited here, he has met many of us; but also because this is another highly symbolic killing, striking at someone who was looking for reconciliation and work across all minorities in pakistan. we should also add our condolences not only to his family, but also to all the families of those who have been killed in terrorist attacks in pakistan. this week we have seen two such attacks, which have killed and injured more people than, for example, the london bombings. the whole population is suffering, and intimidation is undermining democracy in pakistan. we are seeing a change in the demographics of certain constituencies, for example quetta, as intimidation works to force people out. our resolution is important in terms of wanting to continue and support the work, in terms of tolerance and mutual understanding. i would like to make the point that we need that in the european union, too, where certain recent ministerial statements, in my view, have not helped that. so we expect leadership in pakistan and in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i too wanted to pay tribute to the courage and the work of shahbaz bhatti. i know many colleagues in this house have met him personally and his determination to work for minority communities in pakistan, to hold up their rights, is an example to us all. the fact is that he put his life on the line; he knew that the threats were increasing, and his bravery should be recognised. he has lost his life and we in this house have lost a friend. so what can we do? i think there are a number of important points in this resolution. paragraph 13 about calling on the competent eu institutions to include the issue of religious tolerance in society is vitally important. i would also call on the commission, in talks and in trade issues as well, to bring up the issue of human rights too. paragraph 19 about the institutions and the government of pakistan is also important, as is the call for recognition of democracy and human rights. i think that, at the end of the day, we all would like to make sure our condolences are sent and i hope the president of parliament will send a personal letter to shahbaz bhatti’s mother. his funeral was last week and i think that is also important.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, one by one in pakistan the voices of reform and progress are being extinguished. shahbaz bhatti knew he was in danger, both as a christian in a country where religious intolerance is rife, and as minister for minorities who fearlessly denounced his country’s draconian blasphemy laws. however, he refused to be cowed by the islamist fanatics who threatened him with death. only two months earlier the governor of punjab, salmaan taseer, had been assassinated by his own bodyguards, but bhatti was not even provided with bodyguards and, therefore, presented the easiest of targets to the heavily armed terrorists who cut him down on his way to a cabinet meeting. why was mr bhatti not shadowed by armed close protection officers? this is one of the many questions we must ask president zardari. i hope he can answer. i hope the vice-president/high representative will press him to set more of an example in opposing the alarming radicalisation of pakistani society. above all this is a human tragedy. a man of great courage and principle has lost his life and we as democrats honour his name and salute his life’s achievements today in this debate. we send our condolences to his loved ones in their hour of grief.
mr president, the fact that in belarus president lukashenko’s secret police is still called the kgb tells us all that we need to know about his mentality and methods. twenty years after the collapse of the soviet union he remains the archetypal homo sovieticus, a strong man whose addiction to power is as strong as his instincts for crushing dissent. lukashenko used the kgb, or uses the kgb, as a political tool to silence the popular protest, including the cases of ales mikhalevic and natalia radina, that followed yet another disappointingly rigged presidential election in december last year. more than 700 people were arrested. stories abound of opposition activists being abducted, detained extrajudicially, and then tortured mentally and psychologically by the kgb. belarus matters to us so much because it is a european country and has become a cuba on our own doorstep. if the eu is to have any moral force in the world with regard to promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law, it must surely start in europe itself, our own continent. i do not dispute the need to engage with the lukashenko regime. an empty chair policy would be counter-productive with the eu, but we need to increase support to the opposition in belarus and tighten eu smart sanctions on lukashenko and his kgb cronies.
author. − mr president, the eu’s motto is ‘unity in diversity’. sadly, such a sentiment does not resonate in the people’s republic of china, whose communist rulers are obsessed with unity, but not much thought is given to celebrating diversity. undoubtedly the attempt to impose han chinese majority culture on tiny minorities in the world’s most populous country is causing much tension and resentment. we already know about the suppression of the ancient buddhist tibetan culture over the last 60 years; now we see the same threat looming over the city of kashgar in the restive province of xinjiang. for 2000 years kashgar has been a thriving city on the silk road with a rich, unique and flourishing central asian culture, but now it is facing wholesale demolition and rebuilding. it is hard to escape the idea that this is beijing’s attempt to break the will of the uyghur separatists. i personally have no brief or sympathy for the separatist cause, some of whose supporters, i am afraid, have links to al-qa’ida, but i urge the chinese government to think again. the destruction of an ancient city like kashgar would simply strengthen the resolve of all of those who would wish to foment violence against the state.
mr president, given that the japanese earthquake and the suffering in japan have taken second place recently, would it not be appropriate for this parliament to mark them and to join with the people of japan, and their democracy, expressing our condolences by observing a minute’s silence?
in writing. − i abstained throughout the voting on this report. scotland is not within the eurozone and i therefore consider it appropriate to withhold my vote on this issue. having said that, i note that paragraph 6 refers to europe’s smaller nations ‘whose economy may be seen as not “indispensable” for the purposes of safeguarding the euro area as a whole’. i feel that this paragraph displays a dangerous arrogance; the eu is the sum of all its parts and the importance of all european economies is equal, regardless of size. history shows that unions based upon the dominance of larger members are doomed to fail.
in writing. − i am pleased with the results which parliament has secured through negotiations with the council, and as a result i supported this treaty change. giving a legal basis to a stability mechanism is vital to the immediate and long-term stability of the euro zone. the council has given assurances that in future there will be a strong role for the parliament and the commission, which i believe is very important. while i approve this treaty change i have very serious concerns regarding the current economic governance proposals, and voting in favour of this report is not an endorsement of the current economic governance package.
mr president, so the european council will adopt the decision to amend the treaty with regard to the european stability mechanism, but will allegedly help countries stay inside the eurozone. of course it will fail: not for want of money being thrown at the problem, but because the problem is endemic. this is a mechanism that will try to make water flow uphill! the external value of a country’s currency should reflect the demand for, and supply of, its currency which of course should then reflect the demand for its exports, visible and invisible, and the demand for its imports, visible and invisible, as well as capital movements. the same currency value cannot possibly reflect the economic conditions in 17 different countries. far from needing a mechanism to keep failing countries inside the eurozone, we need a mechanism to rescue them from it. even those countries that have seen successes in the eurozone will be better off outside with revalued currencies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, let me express my admiration for the stoic japanese resilience in the face of these mighty forces of nature. we must remember the extraordinary strength of the earthquake and of the tsunami. i welcome the precautionary stress tests on european nuclear power plants, while remembering that the nuclear industry is already the most regulated and safety conscious in the world, and i note the statement earlier this year from wenra, the western european nuclear regulators association, about making new reactors even safer than our existing ones. it is salutary to compare the safety records of the coal, oil and hydroelectric industries with that of the nuclear industry, in terms of accidents involving loss of life. madam president, i see a silver lining in this awful cloud for japan – namely that the rebuilding and restoration work in that country, courtesy of the deep pockets of the insurance industry, should give a huge boost to their economy and that will be good for the rest of the world. i thank the minister and the commissioner for their thoughtful remarks and i would say to member states, and everyone else: do not go wobbly on nuclear power now, we need it too much.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, amhail cainteoirí eile ba mhaith liom mo chomhbhrón a dhéanamh leis na daoine ar bhain an tragóid sa tseapáin leo; tragóid atá ag dul ar aghaidh go fóill. is gá dúinn gach rud is féidir linn a dhéanamh chun cuidiú le muintir na seapáine. maidir leis na ceachtanna is gá dúinn a fhoghlaim san eoraip, tá ceist a bhaineann le sábháilteacht núicléach go hoscailte ar bharr an chláir anois. go háirithe maidir leis na ‘trialacha struis’ atá le déanamh ar ghléasraí núicléacha san eoraip. leis an méid a tharla sa tseapáin, tá impleachtaí tromchúiseacha i gceist do bheartas fuinnimh an ae amach anseo. taispeánann an tubaiste dhaonnúil an tábhacht atá le bogadh chuig eoraip neamhnúicléach. tá státchairde de dhíth orainn i dtaca le fuinneamh núicléach de, agus is é atá ag teastáil ná infheistíocht ollmhór i bhfuinneamh inbhuanaithe agus in-athnuaite. caithfear athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar an chóras rialála do shábháilteacht núicléach fosta.
mr president, my concern about the nuclear industry has been overshadowed by my concern about climate change and i now believe that nuclear has a role to play in helping us fight global warming. that was true before the incidents in japan and it remains true now. there are obviously lessons to be learned. there are the problems of design, inadequate regulation, not enough independence and obviously: do not build nuclear reactors in earthquake zones. but we live in a world of hazards; our cities have chemical factories across the board, all of them present huge potential risks, but we manage those risks, we live with them. over the decades we have had horrific train accidents; we do not close the railways as a result. we learn lessons; we apply them, and we improve safety. that is what we must do with the nuclear industry.
mr president, of course i welcome the speedy assistance that we have given to the japanese in their time of need, and i welcome and share the sympathy expressed with the japanese. however, i cannot help but think that the sincerity of our comments on solidarity will be a little bit tempered by the action of some of our member states. reading our newspapers, i see that the spanish government has urged that goods from japan be checked carefully for radiation; that the netherlands government has cautioned dock workers to handle all containers from japan with care; that the french government has called for the checking of all imports; and that the german authorities are demanding random checks on all goods imported from japan including cars. these are goods which left japan two or three weeks – and in some cases two or three months – before the earthquake. there is little expression of solidarity and sympathy in such action, and i would ask the council and the commission to try and speak to the member states to say that, if they really want to express solidarity, they should not put out such scaremongering stories.
mr president, i am surprised that the commissioner seems so optimistic about getting the situation in fukushima under control in a few days when nuclear experts have talked about weeks and months; meanwhile the plant is still emitting radiation which is continuing to seep into the food supply and into the water supply. i welcome the call for stress tests but they do not answer the bigger questions. the question is: do we want to accept the rising risks of nuclear power in a world where complex natural disasters and extreme weather events are very much on the increase? the safety of nuclear reactors simply cannot be fully guaranteed in the event of a large-scale disaster of any description where there are multiple levels of disruption, where you get cuts to electricity, to water supply, to communications and to physical access. that is the question: do we actually want to take this risk when we have other alternatives?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today in the chamber we are clearly hearing a very strong cross-party request for the council to do everything possible to make refugee resettlement a reality. refugee resettlement is not the same as burden sharing. while we want to see improvements in the common asylum system, what we are asking for here is the removal of the barriers that make for a european resettlement system of very limited credibility, taking care of say 4000 refugees in the whole of the european union, compared to the kind of figure that we see in the united states and canada. let us not forget that the vast majority of the world’s displaced people are pouring into developing countries. the lesson of north africa is that all of those people are pouring into countries unable to deal with the burden. the council must unblock this situation so that we can have a credible resettlement system. this is an all-party request that we are making to the council this evening.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i speak as a former uk immigration minister. there is no doubt that the protection of the vulnerable and those seeking genuine refuge, especially given recent events around the world, is of great importance and priority for this house and, i hope, is even more important for the council. the uk, like other member states, has played its part in resettling refugees through national resettlement programmes in the past, but it is hugely important that through a coordinated, cooperative and communicative approach we discuss how we can best reconcile assisting those most in need with the situations of those member states that are already overburdened with national priorities. i am cautious, however, that programmes in this area should not undermine a nation’s right to set its own policies. we also need cooperation and communication between parliament and the council, more action by the council, more determination by the council. i would like to seek a reassurance that it intends to inform this house regularly as to how it will proceed and if or how recent events in north africa will change the pace and process. i should also like to know whether increases in burdens will, in the future, result in proposals for compulsory quotas of refugees for resettlement in member states. please, council, let us get on with this.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think that the commissioner, skilfully as usual, anticipated the questions that we have. first of all, what do we do in the meantime when it is now public knowledge that the us has issued a number of subpoenas directed at social networks and internet service providers like yahoo, twitter and google? this clearly gives the us access to information about data-sharing between wikileaks and third entities. of course, it is the third entities – european citizens, people who are perfectly innocently accessing the internet, young people, people who are curious – who will be the targets and who will be damaged by this data regime. this has huge implications for the right to privacy of all eu citizens. those who signed up to tweets by wikileaks due to an interest in the ongoing assange case are ironically left vulnerable to us subpoenas and collection of their personal data. sites like twitter are subject to us legislation, as their servers are based in the us. although i understand when you say that we cannot affect the law of third countries, we can do something in the interim. i think it is a legitimate concern for all of us in this house that we have to explain to our constituents what protection they can have from the european union. what is the point of ensuring data protection standards for eu citizens if they can simply be lifted at the request of a us subpoena? it is clear that more has to be done to safeguard the personal data of eu citizens, who should be protected by strong, high-level eu legislation. i know that you are working on that aim. until now, framework directive 94/46 has provided very strong protection in the internal market, but the time has come to review the directive, increase the level of protection and extend the same protective measures to judicial and police cooperation. we will ensure that these objectives are reached through our future legislative work, and you have mentioned that. in this respect, one of the main elements that the commission intends to introduce in the review is eu protection to withstand the us subpoenas. we must remember that this issue does not stop at sites like twitter, but can apply in cases of national jurisdiction. we have this in one of our own member states today with the uk census, which is a massive undertaking being overseen by an american company. this is a genuine and ongoing concern of eu citizens. you have given some partial answers today, but i think we are right to raise this and to get more detailed answers.
mr president, i will reflect on some of these issues from the perspective of the chair of the internal market committee, because i think that very fundamental economic and internal market issues are at stake here, as well as the really important issues about the protection of our citizens’ rights that we have talked about today. i have been writing a report for my committee on this issue. i want to thank ms reding for the green paper on which that was based, because i think that one of the core, ambitious issues that she raised in there is at the core of what we have been discussing tonight. she was saying that if, as a european citizen, my data was held on a server or database in a country outside europe’s jurisdiction, i should have the same rights over that data as i would have if the server was within the european union. that is a really ambitious programme. i hope we can achieve that. it will need a lot of negotiation. i would just say to my colleagues, particularly ms in ‘t veld, that if we are going to offer that, then other countries will demand reciprocal rights as well.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, we have all been on a very long journey together and we are still travelling, hoping that we will reach our destination soon. i would like to thank mr schwab for his work on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. over the years, we have clearly seen the difficulties posed by differing legal concepts, which form a barrier to real consumer possibilities and sme possibilities within the internal market. we have made some progress with the agreement that we now have in parliament. sadly, i think that the legal affairs committee would have liked to have done more, for example in chapter 5 on unfair terms, and particularly in the area of transparency. our committee would really like to make progress in that area. i know that the council feels that it is perhaps a step too far. for us, however, it is a step that could be very important in terms of the internal market and, indeed, in terms of consumer rights, as you put it so well, commissioner. we have come a long way. we have reviewed the consumer acquis. we have not gone through all the directives that the commissioner’s predecessor wanted us to review. we may make some small steps forward. i hope we will keep talking, that we will keep discussing. maybe we will produce something of worth.
mr president, i think you will find that i have two and a half minutes, because not all my colleagues are here. as chair of the committee, i first of all want to pay tribute to all the members who have worked on this. i am pleased that they are all here this evening, led by andreas schwab, with a very strong team of shadow members who displayed really intense interest and expertise in this whole complicated area. i think that it is right, as viviane reding says, that the co-legislators now have to move forward and make some decisions. the time this has taken is an indication of the political difficulties, both on the council’s side and on parliament’s side. i think that parliament, as in many dossiers in the past, has shown that it has the ability to broker a compromise. i think that parliament should vote on the amendments tomorrow, send a clear political signal about what we want, and then refer this back to committee. i want to thank the presidency and ms győri, who has been a most active advocate for the presidency, for being open to our position as a result of that change. that does not mean that we are in any way committed to moving forward and closing those negotiations. however, we owe it to citizens and consumers to hold, at the very least, an open meeting to see if there is some basis for agreement. i think all colleagues are in tune with that. looking at what we have here, i would say, first of all, that i admire ms corazza bildt’s enthusiasm, but i do not really see this consumer rights directive as a milestone. frankly i think it is more a stepping stone, because there are still plenty of difficult waters around where we are treading at the moment. i think it is a first cautious step towards dealing with harmonisation on issues that cause great emotion and a lot of political agitation. understandably, consumers and consumer organisations in different countries do not like to see rights taken away. i think that has been one of the biggest problems we have faced. i think we have a compromise that adds real value for consumers and for businesses, particularly in the areas of internet and cross-border trade. we must sustain those and also certain other areas, but my final word to the commissioner is this: we desperately need a framework within which to make progress towards more harmonisation. we have a whole series of fragmented initiatives, including your work on consumer contracts, and other revisions. we desperately need that long-term strategic approach that will complete the stepping stones towards the milestone.
author. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the conference of presidents for making time for this debate this week at very short notice. i would also like to thank the commissioner for coming here at such a late hour to discuss this issue, which is very important for our parliament. on the face of it, this looks like a very technical issue. it is about implementing measures for the fuel quality directive and setting baseline or default values for greenhouse gas emissions for transport fuels. the real, very serious issue is: how serious are we in the european union about tackling emissions from transport? we know that around 20% of greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. we know that figure is rising, unlike in the housing and energy sectors, where the figure is falling. cleaning up our transport fuels is a key part of the fight against climate change and that is why the fuel quality directive is so important. that brings me to this question of tar sands and oil shale. parliament was expecting the commission’s implementing proposals on the directive at the end of last year. there was a delay and we know the reason for this was because there was an internal debate in the commission about whether to give a separate value to tar sands. we were told that the reason we could not have the measures was because there was no scientific study to back up the commission proposal. in early drafts from the commission, however, we saw there was a separate value for tar sands in the consultation papers, but in a later draft that value had disappeared. thanks to you, madam commissioner, we now have a study on tar sands. that study, which came out two months ago, shows something that other studies have already shown, i.e. that greenhouse gas emissions from canadian tar sands are on average 107.3g of co2 per megajoule, compared with 87.1g for conventional fuels. for shale oil it shows a rate of 122 and 139g of co2 per megajoule. in other words, it shows that these fuels are dirtier than conventional oil. now we have the studies, i am hoping that we will hear from the commissioner tonight that we are going to see a proposal to implement the fuel quality directive. i said at the beginning that this is not just a technical issue. last week, many meps who are here tonight received a petition from thousands of european citizens who are very concerned about this issue. they want what i want, which is proper, fair labelling of tar sands and oil shales. we often hear that the eu is leading the way on climate change, but california has already put in place a low-carbon fuel standard which assesses tar sands as high-carbon. i know there has been a lot of lobbying about this, we have all heard about it, we have met the different lobbyists, and even now that we know that tar sands and oil shale are dirtier than conventional oil, we are now being told ‘no, let us have more studies, let us have more time’. but we have the facts on tar sands now, so i do not see any reason to delay. tar sands are one of the most polluting ways of producing transport fuel known to man. it follows that they should be given a different categorisation in the fuel quality directive, otherwise there is nothing to stop transport fuels getting dirtier under the fuel quality directive instead of cleaner. commissioner hedegaard, i know you will hear in a moment how many of our colleagues from all groups across the house share our concerns. you are known for your commitment to tackling climate change and are respected for it in this house. we want to work with you to deliver your low-carbon roadmap to actually cut emissions from transport by 60% as you announced last week, so i hope that tonight you are going to come here with some good news for us and tell us that in the next few weeks we will have that implementing standard and we will have a higher value for tar sands and oil shale.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to thank commissioner hedegaard for her long-standing efforts on this issue and for her positive announcement this evening. commissioner, you have met meps on a number of occasions and we appreciate that the stumbling block has not been of your making. nevertheless the lack of progress has been deeply frustrating. first of all we were told it was not enough that there were a dozen studies that all showed that tar sands had higher greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil. we were told that there had to be a study using exactly the same methodology. now that we have that study from the joint research centre – and it shows the value of 107g per megajoule, way above the 87.1g average for crude oil – opponents are saying that we need a peer review. it really does feel like timewasting on a grand scale. it is a pity that the lobbying against a separate value for tar sands has come so heavily from one quarter, because it is absolutely not about discriminating against canada. there are many other potential tar sand sites, some of them, as we heard just now, within the eu itself. the fact that these alternative sources of oil are attracting investment interest across the globe is precisely why we must insist on a separate greenhouse gas value for them. otherwise, as tar sands creep up as an increasingly large part of the energy mix, we will find ourselves in the situation where we are complying with the fuel quality directive’s 6% reduction target on paper, but in real life we are producing fuel with even higher emissions than today. it would be very helpful, commissioner, if you could explain to dg trade, as i am sure you have, that this is not an attack on canada, and that apart from anything else, parliament would want this issue of the default tar sands value to be sorted out in order to ensure a smooth passage for the eu-canada trade agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we also welcome the successful conclusion of the second phase of the eu open skies agreement. indeed, after several years it was rather overdue. obviously this agreement is a significant breakthrough and it is to be welcomed. i acknowledge that negotiators have made huge progress in the areas of security, competition, market access and environmental cooperation. but, like the commissioner, i am disappointed that this agreement did not achieve its ultimate objective of a complete opening of the market without restrictions on either side. the failure to resolve fully issues of foreign ownership and control (cabotage) must be addressed in future discussions if european carriers are to truly benefit. of course agreements mean compromise, but that does not mean getting a deal at any price. the aviation industry is massively important to europe. it facilitates economic growth, trade, investment and tourism. air agreements with third countries offer our airlines great opportunities in foreign markets, and i therefore urge the commission to continue to strive to conclude air agreements which are fair, robust and lead to full liberalisation, which will benefit both european carriers and consumers. finally, can we just add our support to the eu-vietnam agreement.
madam president, as chairman of the delegation for relations with canada, it is with particular pleasure that i speak on this eu-canada agreement. i think it is very worthwhile reiterating some of the significant features of the agreement. as mentioned before, in phase 1, airlines have unlimited freedom to operate direct services between any point in the eu and canada, without limitation on the number of providers or, indeed, services. we move to phase 3; we will see investors able to set up new airlines in each other’s countries and, in phase 4, full cabotage rights and the potential for 100% ownership of carriers. the agreement also sets out mutual standards for safety and security. and that is important because it means that the transfer of passengers, luggage and cargo should benefit from a more streamlined approach. it is an important agreement for the eu and our aviation sector. it will allow increased competition, greater choice for the travelling public. not only that, i believe that the comprehensive nature of this agreement can serve as a benchmark for future agreements with other countries. this resolution clearly demonstrates canada’s position as our most proactive international partner, and i wholeheartedly support it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. i think that, unlike the other guidelines which we have discussed over many others years in this house, it is focused and it does not get into a whole lot of different details, which are obviously to come later in the budget procedure. firstly i would like to say that we in my group would like to take very much into account what is happening elsewhere in the european union and not just keep it within the brussels ‘beltway’. therefore the paragraph you have put in paragraph 21 – where you are saying that we should be looking for negative priorities and savings by the institutions, asking our specialised committees to be able to look for priorities – is very important, but very little work has been done on this so far. tied in to the desire, which i can fully understand, to have more monies available for the europe 2020 strategy and the flagships, we should be looking not just for actions which involve money, but strengthening of the single market. it is not just about monies. where we are looking for monies we should be thinking about where we can be generating savings from elsewhere in the budget, as we are looking to do in parliament and in the other institutions. we take the line that if you want more money then you can take it from savings elsewhere. this should also be an important part of our approach to the 2012 budget. lastly, therefore, in looking at the kind of responsibility we should take in an era of austerity, if we are going to be able to cope with the savings of financing where we need new expenditure my group believes we should be heading for a freeze in our expenditure for 2012.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this report’s fundamental weakness is that it completely ignores the observations made by the court of auditors in its annual reports. we should remember that the only information available is on the integrity and efficiency with which european union funds have been spent. the attempt to justify an increase in the budget on the basis that the europe 2020 strategy will take us out of the crisis lacks all credibility when we look back at the complete failure of the lisbon strategy. the threat – and it is a threat – that limiting the level of the european union budget will have a detrimental effect on european solidarity and the pace of economic development in the member states is both facile and displays an overwhelming ignorance of the impact of the crisis upon european citizens. on behalf of british taxpayers, i call on david cameron to demand not a freeze, but a significant reduction of the budget for 2012. given his track record today, i will not be holding my breath.
in writing. – across europe governments and public authorities are having to find ways to save money and show restraint. my own country, scotland, was hit by a double whammy – a global recession exacerbated by misrule by governments in london, always willing to plunder scotland’s resources but intent on denying the people of scotland control over their own affairs. the scottish government has therefore had to work extra hard to succeed in maintaining scotland’s vital public services. in these economic circumstances it is wholly unrealistic for this house to call for a budgetary increase – europe’s public services must have priority over the operations of the eu’s institutions.
mr president, i will not keep you long. today we are voting on the resolutions to approve the executive directors of the european supervisory authorities. issues concerning the overall procedure for the future were dealt with last month in the negotiations surrounding the appointment of the chairs of the authorities. for the banking authority, the proposed executive director is adam farkas; for the insurance and occupational pensions authority it is carlos montalvo, and for the markets authority it is verena ross. the nominees all attended confirmation hearings in the committee on economic and monetary affairs last week. these were webstreamed, and are therefore available on the econ website, as are the candidates’ biographies. the full committee decided by a substantial majority that we should vote in favour of these candidates, so that is the recommendation from the committee.
mr president, i had thought that after 12 years in this house nothing could faze me any more, but i was shocked by the tone in which mr brok introduced his report yesterday. what shocked me was not the arrogance or the disconnection from reality, or even the disdain for public opinion, but the flagrancy. he said in so many words that we have had to avoid the usual treaty revision procedure because otherwise it might have triggered a referendum in some member states! there you see unsheathed the contempt for the voters that the elites of europe now habitually display. public opinion is treated not as a reason to change direction, but as an obstacle to be overcome. i cannot help being reminded of mr brok’s countryman’s words following the rising in east berlin. would it not therefore be easier to dissolve the people and elect another in their place?
mr president, one of the inherent problems of a single currency which has a number of different member states, with economic cycles at different rates, is that it is pointless having one set of interest rates if you have different spending decisions. the result of that has obviously come to bear, because we can see the problems that the euro zone is in. on top of that, governments have to understand that they cannot spend more money than they get in revenue. when governments do that and cook the books, or do not fulfil the roles of economic governance and economic discipline, the others get into trouble. of course, we want a strong euro zone, especially for those members outside the euro zone. we want to continue to trade with countries in the euro zone. we do not benefit from a weaker euro. however, at the same time, we have to be quite clear that the countries in the euro zone should fight their own problems themselves, and not rely on others. i wish you luck in the euro zone, but please learn the lessons of not spending more money than you earn.
mr president, i want to make clear on behalf of the european conservative and reformist group that we are in favour of the european stability mechanism which has been set up, but we voted against the brok/gualtieri report because that opinion was not in line with the conclusions reached by the council. what the brok/gualtieri report wanted was for the european parliament and for the commission effectively to interfere with an intergovernmental mechanism. it is entirely appropriate that this mechanism should be intergovernmental because of the enormous sums of money which are being committed to it. national ministers responsible to their national parliaments: that is the correct line of responsibility. underlying the whole euro crisis, of course, is not a problem with the euro, but a problem with governments that are spending too much of their taxpayers’ money.
mr president, i welcome the conclusion of the second phase of the us-eu open skies agreement. i think this is a breakthrough, but obviously there are those of us who would want more liberalisation and a move away from the protectionism which still hinders this industry in many ways. i would like to see the us remove its barriers or its restrictions on foreign ownership, and i think passengers across the world would benefit from more open skies agreements. i also pay tribute to the ecr shadow rapporteur, jackie foster, who is an expert in this area, and who has worked in the area of air transport as well as in the transport committee. however, i think it is very important that we continue to push for further liberalisation not only on the eu-us agreement but also in the emerging markets of asia, so i welcome the move today with regard to the agreement on the eu-vietnam agreement. long may we continue to have better access to the growing markets of the world.
mr president, i welcome the fact that we are beginning our preparations for the 2012 budget so early. it allows for there to be proper consideration of the issues. one of the matters that we talk a great deal about in the european union, and in this chamber, is the issue of solidarity. we are often very keen to show solidarity for various groups of people. i would ask this parliament to show some solidarity with the taxpayers of our constituencies, because we have so far failed to do that. in this age of austerity we need to show restraint. we should set an example. we should do so by freezing the salaries and allowances of all meps and officials in this place for 2012, and we should also abandon plans for the house of european history, which will cost millions of euros to construct and for which there is no long-term plan to fund. no doubt that will fall on the taxpayer as well.
mr president, when my constituents ask me about the main benefit of being part of the european union, my reply is always the free trade that exists between nations and the internal market that we are seeking to complete. i therefore welcome this consumer rights directive. i welcome it because it takes an –albeit small – step towards completing that single market. it will give some benefits to consumers and small businesses. it will assist in internet and cross-border trade. however, i have to say that this directive has taken a long time to come about, and progress is modest. the plea that i would make to the commission is that we need a framework for completing the single market, as opposed to the rather disconnected series of initiatives that we have at the moment.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. this brings our trade relations with moldova into line with other neighbouring countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which is a technical rollover to the gsp regulation. it extends the duration of the regulation until 31 december 2013 in order to allow sufficient time for the new regulation to be drafted by the commission and for parliament to exercise its new powers in international trade policy. this report is therefore not intended to tackle the substance of the regulation and it does not comment on whether gsp+ beneficiaries do in fact continue to qualify for these trade preferences on the basis of good governance, sustainable development and ratification and implementation of un conventions in the field of social, environmental and human rights.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement, which is correct in so far as it goes. however, while the incentives to further market opening are welcome, the absence of substantive progress in removing outdated regulatory constraints in the area of foreign investment is disappointing, as this will maintain the current unbalanced restrictions on foreign ownership and control in the united states. in addition, eu carriers will only gain limited access to us government-financed traffic. this again represents the continuation of an unbalanced situation, given that eu national governments do not impose similar restrictions.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement, which can fairly be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement between the eu and a major world partner. it will significantly improve both the connections between respective markets and people-to-people links, as well as creating new opportunities for the airline sector through a gradual liberalisation of foreign ownership rules. in particular, it is more ambitious and specific than the eu-us agreement with regard to traffic rights, ownership and control, even following the provisional application of the amending protocol (‘second stage’). according to a study launched by the commission, an open agreement with canada would generate an additional half a million passengers in its first year and, within a few years, 3.5 million extra passengers might be expected to take advantage of the opportunities such an agreement could offer. the agreement could generate consumer benefits of at least eur 72 million through lower fares and would also create new jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in member states’ bilateral air services agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. there are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries. that is why the commission negotiated this agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this report, and particularly welcome the oral amendment adding a new paragraph 7a, which ‘calls on all member states of the gulf cooperation council to recognise a continuing popular movement for democratic reform within the wider region and calls for the full engagement with emerging civil society groups to promote a process of genuine peaceful democratic transition, within their own countries, with partners in the region and with the full support of the european union’.
in writing. − the uk conservative delegation and the ecr group voted in favour of the baudis report on eu-gcc relations, including the extensive oral amendments submitted by the rapporteur today in plenary, as it is important to condemn any disproportionate use of force in bahrain by the authorities, in particular allegations of the shooting of unarmed peaceful protestors. we accept that the mainly majority shia community protestors have themselves in some measure also resorted to unacceptable violence and we call on all sides to exercise maximum restraint. bahrain is a loyal western ally and home to the us fleet and we welcome the offer of dialogue by the crown prince of bahrain. we accept that under the gcc rules the government of bahrain is entitled to call in saudi and kuwaiti assistance in enforcing law and order, but again foreign forces in bahrain should respect fundamental human rights, including the right to peaceful demonstration. we hope an eu-fta can be concluded as soon as possible as economic growth and job creation, particularly amongst the disadvantaged shia community, will assist in stabilising the island state and reducing social tension.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, on the basis of a recommendation from the committee on economic and monetary affairs, delivers a favourable opinion to the european council on the council recommendation to appoint peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of adam farkas as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority).
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of carlos montalvo as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority).
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which approves the appointment of verena ross as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority).
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on general guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the europe 2020 strategy will pull europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of eu overregulation and overtaxation. this 2020 strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies. in addition, the report claims that european solidarity and economic development will be threatened by a reduction of the budget. the european budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of europe cannot afford. calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory – that is why i voted against a freeze – when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on general guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the europe 2020 strategy will pull europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of eu overregulation and overtaxation. this 2020 strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies. in addition the report claims that european solidarity and economic development will be threatened by a reduction of the budget. the european budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of europe cannot afford. calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory – that is why i voted against a freeze – when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on general guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the europe 2020 strategy will pull europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of eu overregulation and overtaxation. this 2020 strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies. in addition, the report claims that european solidarity and economic development will be threatened by a reduction of the budget. the european budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of europe cannot afford. calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory – that is why i voted against a freeze – when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on general guidelines for the preparation of 2012 budget because it believes that the europe 2020 strategy will pull europe out of the economic downturn, when what the nations of europe really need is to be freed from the dead hand of eu overregulation and overtaxation. this 2020 strategy is not a cure for the problems of the economies. in addition the report threatens with the prejudice a reduction of the budget would have on european solidarity and economic development. the european budget has become an expensive luxury that the citizens and taxpayers of europe cannot afford. calling for a small increase or a freeze is derisory when what is really needed is a sharp cut in the budget to give the taxpayer a break.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which is of the opinion that the eu budget brings added value to national public expenditure when initiating, supporting and complementing investments in those policy areas which are at the core of europe 2020. the european parliament believes, moreover, that the eu budget has an instrumental role to play in helping the eu to exit the current economic and financial crisis through its capacity as a catalyst to boost investment, growth and jobs in europe; takes the view that the eu budget could at least mitigate the effects of current restrictive national budgetary policies while supporting the efforts of national governments; stresses also that, given its redistributive nature, lowering the level of the eu budget may harm european solidarity and have an adverse impact on the pace of economic development in many member states; believes that a purely ‘net contributor’/‘net beneficiary’ approach does not take due account of spill-over effects between eu countries and therefore undermines common eu policy goals.
in writing. − on the budget vote for 2012 (general guidelines) i voted to freeze the budget and against any indication of additional spending because of the coming into force of the lisbon treaty. i believe the budget set to be adequate to the commitments set out under the treaty as currently planned.
in writing. − i voted against this report because key paragraphs on posted workers, pension rights and social security were defeated.
in writing. − i voted against as i feel that it opens the door to unfair competition to eu workers and low-cost migrant workers coming to the eu.
in writing. − the commission’s original proposal for a consumer rights directive was an unwelcome, unnecessary attempt to enforce maximum harmonisation for no apparent reason other that to satisfy those who believe that cultural and legal diversity runs counter to the eu’s principles. the proposal would have led to a reduction in consumer rights in various european countries and there was no evidence it would have benefitted the market. the compromise package agreed in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is far from perfect but marks a significant improvement and a base upon which we can build in negotiations with the other institutions.
in writing. − i voted to send this report back to committee because the commission's response to parliament's amendments was woefully inadequate.
in writing. − i welcome the implementation of rule 57 with the report returning to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection as this will ensure greater consumer protection.
in writing. − it is appropriate that we vote on mr chichester’s report on a day when we have learned that the eu’s institutions have been subjected a large-scale cyber attack. information security is of increasing importance to all our citizens and i was happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 460/2004 establishing the european network and information security agency as regards its duration. i welcome the first reading agreement.
in writing. − one of course has to agree with the joint resolution tabled on behalf of the political groups on the triple tragedies in japan of earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident and join in expressing europe’s condolences for those who lost their lives in these awful events. however, japan’s appreciation of our sincerity behind this resolution will, i am sure, be tempered – when it is adopted almost unanimously tomorrow – by the actions of member states that have either at best overreacted and threatened public panic or at worst used the opportunity to impose protectionist measures. the spanish government has urged that goods from japan should be checked carefully for radiation, the netherlands has cautioned dock workers to handle all containers from japan with care, france is demanding a check on all goods before being exported from japan and german customs is demanding random checks for radiation on all goods, including cars, imported from japan. most of these restrictions have been imposed on goods that had been produced and left japanese ports weeks if not months before the earthquake! so much for solidarity!
in writing. − i welcome this resolution as i think we need to support those in japan and also to learn from this terrible situation.
mr president, could i take this moment to reflect on the murder in northern ireland on saturday of a young police constable on his way to work, just a few weeks qualified to do the job. in my 22 years in this house, i have had many occasions where i have had to condemn the terrorists who carry out such atrocities. i thought that time had passed and i would never have to do so again. our thoughts are with the family of the young man, who had a career and a great future in front of him. it was a clear and deliberate attempt to once again destabilise my region. i want to make it clear that i believe that the vast majority of the people of northern ireland do not wish to return now, or any time in the future, to what we went through in the past. the people of omagh suffered a lot. for this to happen to them as well, i have no doubt, brings back many terrible memories. can we send our sympathy to the family and everyone involved, on this very sad occasion for my region? (applause)
a uachtaráin, cáinim fosta marú ronan kerr in ionsaí buama san ómaigh, i mo dháilcheantar, ag an deireadh seachtaine. fear óg 25 bliana a chuaigh isteach sa tseirbhís nua póilíneachta agus maraíodh é dá bhrí sin. is ionsaí é ní hamháin ar an bhfear óg seo agus ar a mhuintir ach ar phróiseas na síochána i mo dháilcheantar chomh maith. tá na daoine a mharaigh ronan kerr ag iarraidh stop a chur leis an dul chun cinn sa phróiseas síochána agus ní ligfimid dóibh é sin a dhéanamh. gabhaim buíochas le huachtarán na parlaiminte inniu as ucht a chomhbhrón féin agus comhbhrón na parlaiminte a dhéanamh leis an gclann. chomh maith leis sin, déanaim comhbhrón le muintir ronan kerr agus cáinim a mharú go géar.
mr president, i rise to ask for the postponement of the vote on the fernandez report. the reasons are straightforward and relate primarily to the paragraph of the report which covers the house of european history. the committee on budgets has been given conflicting, and i believe, misleading figures for this project. an example of this is the mounting annual running costs: they currently stand at eur 13.5 million. this figure is in excess of what was originally quoted. when i had suggested that the cost would be eur 10 million, a faceless parliamentary official accused me of lying in the press by saying my estimates were, i quote, ‘excessive’. this is not the way a member of this house should be treated. what is worst of all, mr president, is the clear conflict of interests in having the chairman of the budgets committee sitting on the board of trustees of the house of european history, even if he is not remunerated. in no other parliament would such a clear conflict of interests be tolerated. it makes an absolute mockery of the committee process. (applause)until these matters are cleared up, the vote on this report must be postponed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i speak on behalf of my group when i say that we are in a very difficult situation practically and politically, in which member states have been talking about completing an asylum package since 1999. if there is a political imperative then it is today, with north africa – and the mediterranean – in crisis. talking about burden sharing should now lead to a practical and sensitive proposal. on behalf of my group, i want to say that sylvie guillaume has prepared – in cooperation, as mrs hohlmeier said, with all the shadows – a proposal which is both sensitive and effective, and really provides, as the commissioner said, a cornerstone of the asylum package. this is why the vote on wednesday is so vitally important. if we can repeat the majority that we achieved in committee, we can reach a position of completing an asylum package which pays attention to the many concerns and sensitivities across this house. if i can give you one example: i dealt with refugee cases for many years as an asylum lawyer, and i know that the enemy of good asylum procedure – fair, just, effective asylum procedure accepted by most members states – is the lack of front-loading of asylum cases. the fact that there is poor-quality decision-making right across the european union in many member states leads to higher costs for member states, not lower costs. so when member states talk about the financial implications, they should understand that quality of decision-making, getting it right the first time and ensuring that the appeals procedure works effectively is where we save money and where we are fair and just. if any member doubts that this report is an effective, fair and just report, they should look at these procedures very carefully and understand that much work has gone into dealing with many of the potentially controversial aspects. it is also important to stress that the debate should not just be about cost: it is about harmonising practices across the eu. it is clear that standards vary too much between member states. if we are going to continue with this kind of asylum lottery, we are not paying attention to the realities of asylum numbers going up. as we know, those asylum numbers have been plummeting for many years. now we are in a more difficult position. the rules in the procedures directive cover perhaps the most complex part of the whole asylum package. that the procedure should be fair and effective can be a matter of live or death for those fleeing persecution. we have to recognise our responsibility in upholding international obligations when dealing with people seeking protection within our borders. therefore, i want to congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadows for their dedicated efforts towards reaching a strong position in parliament. let us repeat the vote that we had in committee. let us ensure that we send a strong signal to the commission – but mainly to the member states – that we are serious in this parliament about completing the asylum package in a way that will be acceptable to many right across the house.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the existing directive of 2005 on international protection is to be recast as the reception directive for asylum seekers. the new reception directive is a development of the eu’s common immigration and asylum policy as laid out under the lisbon treaty. the new directive is intended to set up a new system for deciding the criteria for asylum seekers: who can and cannot enter member states and qualify for refugee status and under what conditions. it is intended to harmonise member states’ asylum policy and give more rights and privileges to those seeking asylum. the current influx of people from north africa is, of course, just another beneficial crisis that gives the eu another opportunity to extend its power and dominion. immigration and asylum policy should be the sole prerogative of the independent sovereign nation state. this proposed directive is the lisbon treaty doing exactly what its opponents said it would do: which, of course, is why you refused to give the people of europe a referendum on it.
mr president, international protection is a coded and euphemistic term for asylum. the word asylum has rightly lost its glamour in the eyes of the general public. asylum seekers who pass by, or through, safe countries are migrants of choice, not genuine refugees. people who come to europe simply because they come from unsafe countries might be unfortunate, but europe cannot be expected to house the entire population of every unsafe country on earth. genuine asylum seekers should seek refuge in the first safe country; one that will be culturally, religiously and ancestrally related to them. the role of europe and the west should not be to act as a giant reception home for the vulnerable populations of the world. our role should be to stop creating the instability that fuels these vast population movements: there must be no more wars such as those against iraq and afghanistan; we must pull out of libya before we are drawn into a ground war; we must cancel the planned conflict with iran and we must avoid encouraging discontent in other middle eastern states.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts on what is actually quite a technical report. the commission’s proposal on tourism statistics has given us a good opportunity to revise the existing legal framework on the collection of statistical data on tourism in europe. this is especially relevant at this time, when all eyes are on developing a strategy for european tourism policy on the back of the new eu competences in this field. updating our tourism statistics database can in turn play an important role in giving policymakers a good basis for implementing successful tourism policies. for these reasons, the approach that i took, supported by our shadows, in formulating parliament’s position was to strongly support the aim of improving the completeness, relevance and comparability of the statistics on offer in this field, bringing the statistics more up to date with new trends in the tourism sector to reflect, for instance, the increase in internet bookings and in short-stay trips. we are all agreed that improving the competitiveness of eu tourism is a way to keep visitors coming to europe, so it is important that the statistics we collect keep pace with the changing nature of the sector, identifying current and potential trends in that sector and monitoring supply and demand. in this way the statistics collected can be a useful tool for supporting the decision-maker in the tourism industry. on the one hand, it is also important to ensure that the updated statistics are as complete as possible, giving a good overview of tourism across europe, whilst on the other hand bearing in mind the need to keep the burden down for respondents. it was for that reason that i was keen to see a final agreement on incoming data collection on same-day visits, which we now have in the final agreement, as same-day visits account for a large part of tourism activity. parliament also pushed for the regulation to cover areas of data collection which until now have not been thought of as relevant for tourism statistics but which we felt needed to be included as part of the recognition of tourism’s important social, economic and environmental impact. i thought that the collection of data on employment and economic expenditure – the so-called tourism satellite accounts – was particularly relevant in this regard and we pushed hard for this to be included as part of the regulation. the final agreement with council now includes a provision on drawing up pilot studies that will enable member states to show the effects of tourism on the economy and on employment, which i hope will contribute to a better understanding of the true size and value of our tourism industry. the final agreement also sees the inclusion of pilot studies that show the effect of tourism on the environment – an interesting avenue to pursue, given the need for a sustainable tourism approach. the inclusion of data on accessibility to tourist accommodation for persons with reduced mobility, which was the only real sticking point that we had with council, is also now an important inclusion. following parliament’s insistence on this point, council finally backed down and agreed to its inclusion as part of the basic information collected from tourist accommodation establishments. together with the agreements that we have reached on restricting the delegation of powers to the commission – which i also had some concerns about – i am very pleased that first-reading agreement has been found with council. i hope parliament will lend its strong support to the agreement in wednesday’s plenary vote.
rapporteur. − mr president, i listened with interest to what the members said. i particularly want to take up the point that was raised about the fact that, while it is a transport and tourism committee, only about five per cent of our workload concerns the tourism sector. this is true in some respects, but it is not because this parliament does not want to do more work on the tourism sector: it is because the council and the member states will not let us do any more work on the tourism sector. so if there is blame to be laid in that regard, it should be laid fairly and squarely at the door of the council. with this report we have a framework that will give us the data required to help practitioners – those at the coalface – plan and develop our tourism product here in the european union. we have a very diverse tourism industry – from beautiful natural areas to sunshine beaches to our rich industrial and cultural heritage – and members know how much industrial heritage is close to my heart. europe has a lot to offer visitors, be they from outside or from inside the european union. i think that, by getting this report together, it gives us the opportunity to plan to provide a fantastic product for people to come and see and enjoy during their leisure time. i thank all the colleagues and the commission for their hard work and their kind words. such cooperation makes the life of a rapporteur a lot easier. i am not sure about it being exquisite: this is not a word usually associated with me, but i will accept it. i can give you an assurance that, as chair of the transport and tourism committee, i look forward to a very successful conclusion to this matter.
in writing. – it is appropriate that we will vote on a report on tourism on 6 april, which is known as tartan day. tartan day is a day of celebration where scotland reaches out to our diaspora in north america and encourages our north american friends to come and visit us. it falls on the anniversary of the signing of scotland’s independence declaration, the declaration of arbroath. that centuries-old document sums up well the principles upon which all my work here is guided: ‘it is in truth not for glory, nor riches, nor honours that we are fighting, but for freedom – for that alone, which no honest man gives up but with life itself.’
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am very pleased that the commissioner reminded us that the overwhelming amount of movement in the region has been in north africa itself. the unhcr estimates that over 400 000 people have already left libya. that is something that, having listened to the debate on the procedures directive earlier, some of our members would do well to remember: the majority of people are moving within north africa. we very much welcome the support given to the unhcr and other bodies in assisting those displaced. a lot of concern, however, has been voiced at the pressure on malta and lampedusa, and quite rightly. it is significant, but not equivalent to what is happening in tunisia and egypt. however, there is growing concern about what is happening to minors – unaccompanied or separated at arrival. there is concern that they are not being properly supported or identified. we hope that the commission will look at their situation and at the situation of those others considered particularly vulnerable at this point. we also welcome the willingness to consider using the temporary protection directive. could the commissioner please outline what criteria she will be using in making that assessment as to whether to bring forward a recommendation?
madam president, efficient management, coherence, solidarity, responsibility: these are supposed to be the foundations of an eu common immigration policy. contrast this with the actual record of the eu over the last decade, which deserves a score of about three out of ten. this is not the fault of the commission, which has produced a stream of policies and proposed laws, but largely of the member states. it is time to get off the reactive and chaotic back foot and onto the proactive, well-managed front foot. maybe we could benefit from looking at a country like canada, and especially its policies on legal migration. my own state, the united kingdom, has stood apart from any idea of a common policy. i regret that, but when so many of those interviewed in places like lampedusa say they want to move on quickly northwards and often specifically to the united kingdom, it does not help persuade my country, which has had very large immigration itself, to lift its border controls. i believe in solidarity. i believe that the temporary protection directive should be invoked now. however, there does have to be responsibility on all member states – those in the north and also those in the south – to properly implement eu law on the reception of migrants and on the processing of claims with financial and other help, and also on integration and the enforcement of labour laws. solidarity and responsibility has to be a two-way street.
madam president, the council decision adopts the un security council resolution. let me quote it: ‘to take all necessary measures to protect the civilians and civilian-populated areas under threat of attack in libya, while excluding a foreign occupation force of any form on any part of libyan territory.’ that single sentence contains two completely contradictory ideas. how do you protect civilians from attack without occupying any piece of territory in order to do so? how can nations with long and illustrious military histories, such as britain and france, adopt such a nonsensical policy? the answer to that is simple: they are bound to do so by the european union’s common foreign and security policy, as a result of the lisbon treaty. they no longer control their own foreign policy. the council decision goes on to say that responsibility for the union’s military policy lies with the high representative of common foreign and security policy. so baroness catherine ashton will have the opportunity to wage her first war and put her name up there with the greats of military history such as rommel, montgomery and eisenhower. well good luck to her, but what is more likely to happen is that this idiotic policy results in disaster for all concerned. the priorities of the west and the european countries in particular should be to encourage moderate regimes in north africa by all diplomatic means, and to protect our own borders from further mass migration flows. that may not be the politically correct answer, but it is a realistic one from sensible nation states, were they able to take those decisions.
madam president, the council has refused to create an asylum policy and real formal burden-sharing since 1999. speaking on behalf of david sassoli and my italian colleagues, what we see in italy today is an emergency which has no real solution in law. a solution should have been found by now. reception procedures, qualifications – the core of the asylum package which we are discussing today – should have been implemented long ago. we would then have had a concept of resettlement and a concept of burden-sharing, but we do not. for that reason, i say on behalf of my group that we must assist in this emergency. we call on the council in particular – but also on you, commissioner – to show that political leadership, and to apply council directive 2001/55/ec. that will create a situation of resettlement which may at least alleviate some of the burden. as well as doing that – as some have said – we cannot ignore our duties in relation to asylum and to international law. those duties will apply to so many people who are vulnerable and suffering today. the reasons for the push factors of asylum are deep and profound – they are poverty and instability. however, we have a situation right now affecting the southern countries and we need to implement council directive 2001/55/ec.
madam president, i had intended to speak on the impact of the financial crisis in the republic of ireland on the economy in northern ireland. instead it is with deep regret that i inform this house of the callous and brutal murder of a member of the police service of northern ireland. twenty-five-year-old constable ronan kerr died at the hands of republican terrorists on saturday afternoon. constable kerr, a catholic police officer, was murdered when a booby-trap bomb planted under his car exploded on saturday as he left for work. he died at the scene. i call on this house to condemn this atrocity and to call for an end to such violent acts at the hands of irish republican terrorists intent on dragging northern ireland back to its darker days and derailing the political process. since 2007, dissident republican terrorists have planted dozens of booby-trap bombs under the private cars of police officers. thankfully, most of these have failed to detonate. i am sure that you will also join with me in calling for all information regarding this murder to be given to the police. there are people in the local community who have information about constable kerr’s brutal murder. they need to come forward and bring these murderers to justice, not shield them from it. they need to do it for the future of our country and out of respect for a brave police officer and his grieving mother and family. i am also appalled at the lack of respect that this speech has been given by some members of this house.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i would like to go back to the matter of libya if i may. when did the political class and the great and the good suddenly catch up with the fact that colonel gaddafi is an evil man? when, since that wonderful photograph with you embracing him, mr president, did you suddenly come to realise that he was a “wrong’un”? i can tell you that the victims of lockerbie in scotland and the victims of ira atrocities in my country knew very well what sort of scoundrel this man was. but he has got oil and he has got money so you all turned a blind eye, didn’t you? well, the chickens have come home to roost. the most absurd figure in all this is the british prime minister, who stands there rattling his empty scabbard – having disestablished the royal navy, having disestablished the royal air force – making threats from the sidelines, with no aircraft carriers, nothing, and calls himself a conservative but is just a superannuated schoolboy whistling in the dark. we talk a great deal about violence against the people, we talk a lot about democracy. and yet we have had a homicidal baboon in zimbabwe for years now, and we do not do anything about it, do we? we do not care because there is no money and there is no oil. that is so typical of this place: full of hypocrisy and humbug.
madam president, every time the eu is confronted with a specific problem, it falls into the trap of devising a complex, bureaucratic, heavy-handed solution which is often completely disproportionate to the severity of the issue. this is the mistake that we are now making with regard to the current financial crisis: it is serious, it does require action, but many of the proposed solutions will have far-reaching and, in my view, highly damaging effects for the long-term future of europe. the opportunity is being seized on by many to launch plans for permanent economic governance, with intervention and control as its guiding principles. the solution, we are told, is firstly to abuse the existing rules such as article 122 of the treaty, which was never intended for the bailouts that it has been used to pay for – my hope is that some country will have the courage to challenge this in the european courts – and to impose more limitations on our member states, which in reality means constraining the democratic choice of many of the electorates. if you look at the case of ireland, that country has tried its very best to stabilise its banking system – stabilisation, incidentally, which is desperately needed by banks and institutions in other member states, which would otherwise be terribly exposed – and ireland’s reward for that is to face demands from other member states to increase its own rates of corporation tax in order to compete with the bloated situations in other countries. it is unjust and it is undemocratic.
a uachtaráin, cad é an cineál smaointeoireachta a thugann agus a threoraíonn an chomhairle agus an coimisiún chun a chreidiúint nach méadóidh na beartais a forchuireadh ar éirinn an fiachas nó nach é seo an toradh a bheidh ar chur i bhfeidhm na mbeartas úd nó bheartais den chineál sin trasna an ae? cuirfidh na bearta a aontaíodh ag an gcruinniú mullaigh iachall ar gach ballstát a bheith teoranta ar loighic eacnamaíoch atá le haimhleas na ndaoine – loighic ina bhfuil ciorruithe riachtanach agus a bhaineann an cumas de na ballstáit chun fás a chur chun cinn. ciallaíonn na beartais atá á bhforchur ar éirinn ag an ae agus ag an gciste airgeadaíochta idirnáisiúnta (cai) ciorruithe fíochmhara, cailliúint post, agus laghdú suntasach ar sheirbhísí poiblí. níl ualach fhiachas na héireann inbhuanaithe. mura gcaithfidh bannóirí cuid d’ualach an easnaimh a roinnt, mainneoidh éire amach anseo.
mr president, the euro plus pact might be useful, but it must not be used as an excuse for weakness in the legislative package. a strong commitment to the single market is key to competitiveness in the eu and therefore the euro area. that is welcome, but single market initiatives remain in the framework of the treaty and the 27. the esm facility, i fear, lacks flexibility and is unsustainable for recovery with a two-and-a-half to three per cent risk premium. i understand the need for discipline and risk provision, but these rescue mechanisms are not for money-making, especially when there is self interest beyond eurozone stability, such as several member state banks being supported by irish taxpayers, as has been mentioned. we have not solved the banking crisis, nor will we by being faint-hearted. germany, even, has not recapitalised its own banks nor recognised impaired assets and also relies on the indulgence of everyone else in the eu and worldwide to allow silent participations as core capital, otherwise stress tests will be failed. so, president of the commission, president of the council, let us have some vision, some humility, some honest self appraisal; the very least you can do is to treat risk premiums as collateral and give them back when the risk is gone. small-mindedness will not save the euro and the markets know that.
madam president, the council deems centralised regulation of national budgetary agendas essential to aid economic recovery – in particular, the proposal of multiannual consolidation plans addressing deficit, revenue and expenditure targets to be reached within stipulated time-frames with associated penalties if obligations are not met. the uk deficit is largely structural and must be addressed internally. i greatly oppose any involvement from brussels in my country’s affairs, considering the mess made in greece and ireland, which are likely to need further bail-outs. portugal would rather turn to brazil, suggesting lisbon’s reluctance to become an economic protectorate with austerity measures that stifle growth. the council states consolidation should be frontloaded in member states with large deficits. what would stop migration of citizens to stronger economies in the union under laws of the eu’s own creation? the council suggests reducing the regulatory burden. does this encompass legislation for which europe has been the architect for decades, such as the working time directive and extended maternity pay? decentralised and less-stifled markets are vital for economic welfare, not punitive regulatory measures.
madam president, the most important conclusion from the council meeting was not headline-sexy. it said that the single market has a key role to play to deliver growth. but is this all talk? on economic governance, i already see colleagues wanting to water down the stability pact, and when it comes to supporting businesses, we are not much better. meps flock to sign up to campaigns for cyclists and horse welfare, but when it came to campaigning to cut red tape for small businesses, only a third of us joined in and there was only one uk labour signature. the commission promises to unlock venture capital, which is laudable, but almost laughable given that it spent all of last year trying to legislate it out of the market altogether. it is time to walk the walk. nine heads of state have signed a letter on specific actions for business, trade, innovation and investment. they call on us to choose growth. i certainly do.
madam president, the presidents of the council and the commission spoke of the euro plus pact and of the single market. i have a question about each. do they agree with the president of the european central bank that a far larger european stability mechanism will be needed? if they do not agree, is it simply because true professionals can rarely admit in public what they know to be true in private? the only participant in the single market which implements the rules 100% is norway. since the real stress test in the crisis we face will not be of any bank or any nuclear installation, but of the solidarity of european union member states, do the presidents of the commission and council believe that there are good chances of greater solidarity than we have seen in the past?
madam president, paragraph 5 of the report from the meeting says that policy measures will be presented to correct harmful and persistent macroeconomic imbalances and improve competitiveness, but in the introduction the talk is of promoting trade with third countries. imports from third countries, particularly the so-called emergent economies, are the greatest single cause of trade imbalances and the inability to compete. it would be impossible for developed economies to compete with manufactured imports from these countries without driving our wages down to their levels. indeed, this is hinted at in the section on page 16, on fostering competitiveness. it says ‘there will be assessments of wage and productivity developments and competitive adjustment needs’. whatever does this mean? it could only mean one thing. wages must be adjusted downwards to make goods competitive with those of the emergent economies. while principles such as free trade are sacrosanct, the economic interests of european workers, it seems, are dispensable.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – much has been said in this plenary session on the effect of the bailout package on the republic of ireland. however, it must be recognised that this crisis also has a huge knock-on effect on my own constituency of northern ireland, which shares a land border with the republic. there is a large quantity of cross border movement in terms of finance, services and people for employment purposes. banking institutions from the republic of ireland also have a considerable stake in northern ireland. therefore the liquidity problem these banks are now facing are directly impacting on businesses in northern ireland, particularly smes, in terms of access to financing. at a time when smes are struggling to survive an already dire economic climate, this is only helping to depress a difficult situation. at present, 30 per cent of everything manufactured or produced in northern ireland goes directly to market in the republic of ireland. therefore a weak market in the republic has direct and serious ramifications for business and employment in my constituency. in light of this serious situation i call on president barroso to acknowledge this and use the taskforce to look at ways to improve the situation we now find ourselves in.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
mr president, on a point of order: we are in a chamber which is meant for discourse, and we obviously all have to show respect for one another. when you have two group chairs having a private conversation while others are giving speeches, what message does that send out to their colleagues?
mr daul and mr schulz, i have been asked whether you could set an example to the house.
mr president, the premise of this report is incorrect. the idea that emigration is a product of poverty and desperation, although superficially plausible, turns out to be specious. emigration, we know historically, more often is the product of rising wealth and rising aspiration. we saw very recently that the great migratory flows from tunisia came after the restoration of democracy and the end of dictatorship. the real cause which uproots people and makes them shift themselves hundreds of miles in pursuit of a better life is opportunity. the reality is that in the european union we have created a situation where we have long-scale structural unemployment and yet are still are having to import labour. in our country, the united kingdom, there are more than 4 million people who are either unemployed or on incapacity benefit and yet every month we are bringing people in from all over the world to do jobs that are not being taken by people born in the united kingdom. we have trapped millions in the squalor of dependency. we have placed them in a situation where work is no longer part of their mental horizon. if we want to rescue people from that wretched condition, the answer is not in foreign policy but in reform of welfare, so as to restore dignity and independence to our own citizens.
mr president, one of the factors that is often overlooked in any debate on migration is that quite often it is very difficult for those who migrate from one country to another, and they do so under the most difficult of circumstances. think what it must be like to leave behind your family, your village, your town, all your social ties, your friends, maybe never knowing whether you will see them again or when you will see them again. what makes them leave those countries and seek opportunity, as the previous speaker said, in the west? well, quite often it is because they are escaping from conditions and governments that are no longer able to command their confidence. we can help in some ways. let us look at some of the policies that we have: our fisheries policy, which encourages large fishing boats to plunder the seas off poor african nations, leaving their local fishermen in desperation with no jobs. what do they do then? they seek to migrate. we have our aid policy, which keeps corrupt governments in power, making it less pleasant for people to stay in their countries. that makes people look to go abroad and they come here. we have to get this right. we have to understand that it is difficult for people to leave their own countries. we should make sure that our policies help people to stay in their own countries.
mr president, i do not know whether you recall the popular television series in our own country life on mars, the conceit of which was that the leading character, a police officer, is catapulted back, as it seems, to the early 1970s. i felt rather as he did as i read through the voting list today. here is the eu coming out with policies on women in agriculture, export credits for favoured companies, special grants to unilever in the czech republic and to machine tool manufacturers in poland. the 1970s was a dire period for europe as a whole and for the united kingdom in particular: a time of stagflation, of unemployment, of national bankruptcy. but these things did not happen because of some tectonic forces beyond our control. they happened as a result of wrong-headed policy, in particular the idea that governments could pick winners, and that governments should control the economy and make things happen through reallocating resources. the 27 member states have moved on, but the european union has not. we are still in this world of taking money from our taxpayers and giving them to favoured client groups. why? because if we did not do that, what would the european union be for? as upton sinclair once observed, it is very difficult to make a man see something when his job depends upon not seeing it.
mr president, i voted against both the matera reports on the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, for the czech republic and for poland, not because i feel any ill will against those countries – far from it. i am just very mindful of my own constituents in the west midlands, and indeed their contribution to the gbp 48 million that the united kingdom pays to the european union every single day. let me tell you a few things about the west midlands: we have the largest youth unemployment and our motor industry was decimated, partly due to the european union funding jobs in slovakia that took away essential jobs from the ryton plant. in 2004 it was, of course, the united kingdom that bore the brunt of the eu enlargement, because it was the only one not to put up any barriers. that cost more in public services. another example of an expense that my constituents have is that we contribute towards child benefit for people in eastern europe. people come over to the united kingdom, work in the united kingdom and claim for children who are resident in eastern european countries. what we would like to do, and what i would like to see, is that gbp 48 million a day being kept in the united kingdom and spent on essential public services, and not handed over, when the eu’s accounts have not been audited for 14 years.
mr president, i voted against the svensson report. obviously i totally denounce violence, especially violence against women, so why did i then vote against this report? i voted against it because, as a colleague of mine said a bit earlier, it is a bit of a time warp. it brings us back to the 1970s and political correctness and is very naive in that element. it just wants to replay the fights of the early 70s. i also am a bit concerned about the criminal nature it wants to bring in. this is what the european union does, is it not? it brings itself in on an issue that everyone can agree on – how awful violence against women is – and then sets things up and brings in criminal law. then, before you know it, this is extended to more and more areas. shame on the european union for choosing such a subject, even if it is an own-initiative report, because this is where it starts. this is where the power grab starts and shame on it. what we need is real action on violence against women at member state level. leave things alone and stop using this subject.
in writing. − i voted for this report giving support through the european globalisation adjustment fund to 594 workers made redundant in poland. the eur 0.45 million will be used to retrain and support workers through a difficult transition.
in writing. − whilst voting for this report, i consider it ironic that this fund exists when not all eu countries utilise it. the share of this fund remaining at year end is repatriated to member states as part of their ‘rebate’. yet failure by some countries, like the uk, to use this fund, which is its established right, in cases like the twining tea plant closure in andover, raises certain questions. those pretending to understand the benefits/disbenefits of the rebate query whether or not it is more correct and efficient for countries to make direct use of egaf monies at local level. the second irony concerns political and economic participation – engaging at all eu levels of added value. for the uk to maintain the right not to participate in funds managed at eu level because later benefits may flow is, in this case, uncertain and perhaps even plain wrong. the uk is renouncing access to funding on a principle of not applying for this fund in order to receive a rebate. for those seeking help to return to work – in sandwich, kent and andover, hampshire – there is little justification in saying ‘no’, and this is another uk government let-down.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in poland.
in writing. − the provera report deals with a number of important issues relating to migration and highlights the importance of human rights. human rights have been at the heart of campaigns in scotland and the uk to end the detention of children seeking asylum. the uk government has vowed to end this obscenity – but to date they have fallen short.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which welcomes the commission’s recent proposals on legal migration for non-asylum seekers, and urges it to develop further instruments to establish a common immigration policy, to manage economic migration with a view to promoting economic and social progress in receiving, transit and origin countries, and to enhance social cohesion by improving the integration of migrants. it emphasises the need for adequate information to be provided on possibilities for legal immigration to the eu, in order to prevent illegal migration, make better use of the eu schemes for legal immigration, clarify current prospects and opportunities within the eu and give the lie to the false promises made by traffickers, thereby limiting the profits generated for organised crime and human traffickers by the need for people to move. it calls on the commission to foster protection measures for vulnerable groups and people (mainly women and children) who often become victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, and urges it to build up information centres on possibilities for migration to the eu in third countries. it calls, however, for a balanced approach between promoting legal migration into the eu and ensuring that the eu has the capacity to receive and successfully integrate migrants;
in writing. − i welcome this report’s recognition of the important role women play in agricultural production and the need to adapt certain policies and conditions to assist them. however, i do not believe this should be used as a justification to throw even more money at the cap.
in writing. − the eplp supports the aim of elisabeth jeggle’s report ‘role of women in agriculture and rural areas’ to highlight the sector specific problems faced by women working in agriculture and many of the measures proposed to strengthen their position. the report addresses the specific needs of women working in agriculture, by proposing a series of recommendations which take account both of their living conditions and their role and contribution to the development of the rural economy. however, the eplp does not agree with the paragraph 4, which speaks against further reducing the proportion of the total budget accounted by agricultural expenditure. we would like to see significant reprioritisation within the multiannual financial framework to fully fund europe 2020 priorities that have the greatest impact on raising employment and growth levels.
in writing. − i supported this report, which highlights the importance of gender equality in promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development. i believe that it is important to encourage representation of women in all political, social and economic bodies of the agricultural sector, to ensure that women are participating on an equal basis.
in writing. − paragraph 7 of the marinescu report notes that the decommissioning of certain nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria ‘should be assigned the highest priority in the interests of the safety and health of all the people of europe’. i fully agree with that statement but would go further: a complete move away from nuclear power in all member states would be in the interests of the safety and health of our people.
in writing. − i voted for this report which deals with the three countries, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, that operated old soviet design nuclear reactors which the international community, in line with the g7 multilateral programme of action adopted at the munich g7 summit in 1992, concluded could not be upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost. in the context of the negotiations for accession to the european union, the three countries took the commitment to close and subsequently decommission these nuclear reactors on fixed dates. in recognition of the fact that the early closure represented an exceptional financial burden and as act of solidarity, the european union committed itself to provide adequate additional financial assistance for decommissioning these reactor units until the end of 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support the gradual decommissioning of nuclear power plants.
in writing. − i welcome this report which releases funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers made redundant in the czech republic. the application relates to 634 redundancies that occurred following the closure of a unilever plant in nelahozeves in the last quarter of 2009. four hundred and sixty redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egaf funding to a total of eur 0.32 million.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in the czech republic.
in writing. − i welcome this report. export controls of dual-use items, meaning goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes, have been the subject of eu-level actions for around 15 years. controlling the export of dual-use goods is a key for the non-proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass destruction. given the high volume of trade across the borders of the european union, the enforcement of eu export controls on dual-use goods relies on preventive measures such as the imposition of export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures. export controls have a high impact on the eu’s trade policy as they can affect more than 10% of all eu exports. the main eu export control tool is the dual-use regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009, which entered into force on 27 august 2009. this new regulation introduced a number of significant changes to the scope of dual-use export controls in the european union. these include the introduction of controls on brokering activities and transit with regard to dual-use items. the dual-use regulation includes regularly updated lists of controlled dual-use items that reflect those of the main international export control regimes.
in writing. − i voted for this report. i view export credits as an important instrument for supporting eu enterprises. in light of the increased demand for officially supported export credits, it is of the utmost importance that the newest oecd regulation of this instrument is introduced in member states as soon as possible. support for medium- and long-term export credits is a powerful tool which is not yet fully exploited in all member states and needs to be encouraged. export credits can help to create jobs by securing financing for projects which otherwise would have more restricted access to capital due to their non-market character. i agree with the rapporteur, who notes that any new legislation in this field must avoid the creation of any new red tape or bureaucracy which would add to already existing costs. european-level supervision of export credits should be introduced as an exception when a distortion of competition within the internal market occurs. the principle of subsidiarity must be upheld.
in writing. − i voted for this report. gender-based violence is always primarily a criminal matter. society must therefore respond with punishment which is proportional to the seriousness of the crime. in setting priorities for the allocation of society’s resources, it is important to have a clear victim’s perspective, since it is this group which currently needs special protective measures. this does not exclude devoting resources to individual offenders by, for example, offering conversation therapy and other methods to counteract violent behaviour. this form of alternative treatment for men who have committed serious assaults on women, however, should never replace the penalty imposed by criminal law. conversation therapy and other such forms of treatment can only supplement other forms of punishment, such as prison. violence is in large measure a consequence of unequal power relations between men and women, and is an expression of a domination/subordination relationship between the perpetrator and victim for these crimes, therefore, conversation therapy in which both victim and perpetrator take part must be regarded as out of the question since the crime is of such a nature that the two can never be equivalent and equal negotiating parties.
in writing. − i will be supporting the svensson report because it highlights the problem that exists with regard to violence against women. this is not a new issue but it is an issue which has been ignored; swept under the carpet; kept within the family. now it is right to end this practice and do all we can, not only highlighting this problem but, in bringing forward measures, to tackle the problem and give women the protection against violence which is their right. i agree we need to ensure that women suffering violence should have access to legal aid. however, if member states keep cutting legal aid budgets then this access will not happen. i agree that judges need to be trained in the particularly difficult cases that violence against women raise. but how do we do this when budgets are being slashed? we need member states to make this issue a political priority setting out the minimum requirements and obligations that victims of abuse might expect. this report provides us with a framework and deserves our full support, but with this framework we also need some action in this important area and that means action by member states.
in writing. − i supported this report which puts forward proposals to tackle violence against women across europe and calls for all member states to prioritise this issue.
in writing. − i fully support calls to make sexual and domestic violence against women a criminal offence in all members states. as a matter of urgency i urge the commission to come forward with proposals that will put in place robust measures to counter gender-based violence and protect victims across the eu. the discrepancies that currently exist between member states must be addressed, with the introduction of coherent national laws. i hope that this resolution will be a step towards a european directive to combat gender-based violence.
that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 13.25 and resumed at 15.00)
president of the commission. − we have already made some proposals on that matter, namely the so-called 20-20-20 agenda where, for instance, the member states agreed unanimously – because unanimity is required in that matter – the 20% targets for renewables by 2020. let me say that we are on target to achieve that goal. so european union legislation that makes this binding on member states already exists. are member states ready to go forward? this is something we can discuss, but i can tell you that from my point of view, from my consultations, they now believe that they should commit to reaching that goal first. so we probably do not need to create a new community – a new institutional – framework, but we do need to commit decisively to the goals that we have agreed and even, if agreed, to set more ambitious goals.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr barroso, i am confused. help me. what is the eu’s policy on libya? i got a letter on 1 april from the noble baroness ashton telling me that the eu had provided more than eur 75 million in humanitarian assistance and that, although the situation remains uncertain, the eu has offered to assist in fostering dialogue. yet she wrote this many days after the bombing had begun. that is what she has been saying. on the other hand, we have got hard man herman van rompuy, who has made it clear that regime change is the aim of this libyan adventure. he also said that the action in libya could not have happened without the european union, and that france and germany could not have taken military action without first getting the support of the european council. so we have two big chiefs within the european union directly contradicting each other. could you please shed some light on the matter, and tell us what is the european union’s policy on gaddafi and libya?
president of the european commission. − the member states unanimously agreed that gaddafi should go. there is no contradiction in engaging in dialogue with the people we think we should talk to. that was probably what lady ashton was referring to. for instance, we have received here representatives of the opposition to colonel gaddafi. having said that, the military action was not a decision of the european union as such. some member states on the united nations security council decided, based on a consensus reached in the european council, to implement a no-fly zone. but it was not a decision of the european union as such because there were some differences in the approach to the situation. we have to recognise this. the reality is that there were differences over the way in which we should handle the libyan issue. however, i also agree with what president van rompuy said: without this position taken by the european council, the decisions of the security council could not have been made. these were historic decisions in the sense that they implement the responsibility to protect.
on behalf of the efd group. – well there is certainly a broad range of opinions here. i wonder whether mr barroso would agree with me that appointing as head of your new foreign office and in charge of external security a woman who has been an extreme left-wing, life-long passivist, the former treasurer of the campaign for nuclear disarmament, somebody who has proved to be incompetent in the job, was not in fact one of the better decisions of the european union. i can only say thank god for baroness ashton, without her i suspect all of us would be very much deeper into libya.
president of the commission. − the member states’ decision, with my support, to nominate catherine ashton as vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy was, i think, a good one. she is a very committed european. she certainly does not share your views, but i do not think that is really a problem. i think she is making a very honest and determined contribution to our goals, but let us be honest about this. she has a very difficult and challenging job. she is now doing something that before was done by at least three or four people. in addition she has had to introduce the new european external action service. i believe that those of you who do not seem to sympathise with her ideas should give her the benefit of the doubt. i believe the fact that we now have a high representative who is vice-president of the commission at the same time is an improvement. i can testify to her enthusiasm, to her determination and to the very european approach that she takes in all these issues.
can the president of the commission foresee any circumstances in which all member states, including the united kingdom, are forced to adopt the euro against the wishes of their peoples – possibly expressed in a referendum – and even against the professed wishes of their governments? the preamble to the lisbon treaty commits member states to establishing economic and monetary union: a single, stable currency. the word ‘single’ implies that it will not coexist with other currencies. there is, of course, the protocol to the treaty that states that unless the united kingdom notifies the council that it intends to adopt the euro, it shall be under no obligation to do so. but the question is whether the protocol will protect the united kingdom against the provisions of the treaty. other countries outside the eurozone appear to be in a less-favoured position. article 140 of the treaty states that member states with a derogation will be examined every two years on the progress being made in achieving economic and monetary union.
president of the european commission. − i did not understand the question, but if the question is whether the united kingdom will be forced to join the euro, the answer is no.
we know that the united kingdom is protected by the protocol, but the validity of protocols is a question that goes beyond the subject of a single currency. there is a protocol providing the uk and two other countries with opt-outs from the charter of fundamental rights, but the commission’s own legal service has suggested that the opt-out is, at best, of limited application. might the protocol providing the uk with an opt-out from the single currency also be of limited value?
a year ago in haiti there was a feeling that the eu was slow off the mark in disaster and humanitarian relief. are you satisfied by the degree of operational coordination between the eu and member states in the recent emergencies, especially in japan? what has happened since the commission communication of three years ago on reinforcing the union’s disaster response capacity, which said that we needed greater coherence and effectiveness for a more integrated eu disaster response capacity? in particular, has recent experience in japan and a rather different one in north africa helped to advance commission thinking on whether we need an eu rapid reaction mechanism for humanitarian disaster and reconstruction aid?
mr barroso, you have already partly answered this question, which concerns the food safety issues in relation to japanese imports. i wonder if you could just tell us how much food we import from japan, so that we can allay some public fears in that regard. also, one of the issues about which i am starting to get letters is the fact that your services have based the recommended limits for radiation on two different regulations: one concerning chernobyl and the other a general provision. this is what is causing confusion. i have read the relevant question and answer on the commission’s website but i have to say that it is very complicated. i wonder if you could throw some light on this. why are there two different regulations? if you cannot throw light on it today, could you at least clarify it on the commission’s website so that my constituents understand exactly what the levels are, why they have been drawn up, and why there is a difference between chernobyl levels and non-chernobyl levels?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this proposal is an opportunity to better integrate the roma people within member states and to find ways to provide the roma people with the full, equal opportunities and rights afforded to all eu citizens. the main aim of the programme should be to achieve basic universal rights for all those people. i fear, however, that once again this heavily burdened and complicated agenda, like previous programmes, may have to be cut back. the competences of member states in the areas of education, health and housing must be respected and, from what i have read so far, i fear the commission may be acting ultra vires in a manner that is detrimental to the rights of member states to determine their own policies in these areas. however, i hope that this new strategy marks a new era in the way the eu addresses the issue by firstly listening to the roma people. for too long programmes have been too complicated and have simply not reached the people who need help most. in nearly ten years little of substance has been achieved on the ground. i hope the commission will now focus on how best to simplify the procedures for accessing eu funds and how to better monitor, assess and implement its programmes. if the eu is spending money in this area then it needs to be spent now in a better way.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the way in which he has approached this budget and for his recognition that parliament should avoid large increases in its spending for 2012. this is particularly appropriate as we know that the council intends to cut its budget by 4%, the commission intends to increase its budget by only 1%, the committee of the regions by around 2.9% and the economic and social committee by an even smaller amount. i believe that the initial suggestion of 5.2% made by the bureau was far too high. reducing the increase to 2.3% is therefore progress. it is in fact a cut of about 0.5% in real terms. personally, i would have liked to have seen an even smaller increase. in the future, i believe we should produce a plan to identify savings in parliament’s budget. however, we should recognise that savings have been made. i welcome the savings made on the added-value assessment unit – which will save us around eur 1.3 million – the savings on information campaigns, buildings policy and stationery and on the proposal to reduce the contingency reserve by around eur 3 million. these all equate to real savings of around eur 13.7 billion, in addition to the deferred spending on lisbon and enlargement. as i said, i believe that further savings could have been made, but we have at least found some savings. finally, could i also raise two important outstanding issues? firstly, on the suggestion that the eur 100 million from unallocated margins in heading 5 should go to youth policy, as outlined by the rapporteur: along with other groups, we have said in amendment 7 that this transfer could be considered but only in line with the priorities in the general 2012 budget. this will therefore need discussion before a decision can be made on whether it should be done and where the money should go – in other words, where the money would be spent if that transfer takes place. it is far too soon for us to commit ourselves to that. secondly, there is the issue of the house of european history. it would be a good idea if we had plenty of money, but i believe that now is not the time. we need a proper business plan and we need it to go through the proper parliamentary procedure, perhaps through the normal budget process later this year, so that members can have their say and give their views on this project. on this issue, i believe it is important that parliament, as on other issues, should be seen to be taking the right decisions on our own budget. our own budget is important and we have to be seen to be making sure that we take the right decisions for the public.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the 2.3% increase in the budget requested by this parliament calls into question its sense of responsibility. going through the different expenditure lines, you can find many growing 50% to 100% without any reasonable justification. at the beginning of this plenary session i asked this parliament to postpone the vote on the fernandes report owing to lack of accurate information on costs for the house of european history and a conflict of interest, but my request was voted down. a sum of eur 2.5 million has already been paid out without enough information. it appears that meps are willing to operate in the dark and just hand over taxpayers’ money without asking the right questions. i can only ask the british prime minister to accept nothing but a significant reduction of the whole eu budget for 2012 and hope that parliament will be the one to bear the biggest cut.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the eu tends to term what in many cases is fraud and corruption as errors. worse, the commission has decided to move from zero tolerance to tolerable risk. to add insult to injury, the recent revelations about members of this house who agreed to amend or write legislation in exchange for payment further erode the credibility of this parliament, particularly in its efforts to fight fraud and corruption. only two of the four whose names were revealed have effectively resigned. will this parliament review the legislation these four meps have worked on? one mep has even gone so far as to question olaf’s power to investigate these cases, declaring – incredibly – that in some countries such action would not be considered illegal and would not even be investigated. this report should spur the british government to withhold all payments to the eu until fraud – to use its proper name – is meaningfully tackled by this parliament.
the next item is question time (b7-0210/2011). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
question 12 by zigmantas balcytis (h-000136/11) subject: discrepancies in healthcare in the member states there are still major discrepancies in the regions and member states of the eu in healthcare services and unequal treatment of patients in terms of access to high-quality services and reimbursement of medication for complex illnesses such as alzheimer’s. does the commission intend to take any action in this regard? if so, what action will it take to promote the formulation of integrated national or regional strategies aimed at reducing inequality in healthcare and ensuring that patients in the eu have access to high-quality healthcare services?
question 13 by marian harkin (h-000110/11) subject: enabling technologies given europe’s ongoing weakness in translating r&d into commercial products, can the commission give an overview of where we currently stand in terms of strengthening europe’s position in key enabling technologies?
the commissioner has spelt out a very depressing picture, saying that, if we carry on as we are, the prospects are bleak, with fishing fleets in many cases economically unviable and job opportunities for fishermen declining. however, is it not the case that decline might be better than the alternative? the fact is that we do not know. we do not have the scientific knowledge for 50% of our fisheries. we know that fish stocks are low in many cases, after decades of over-fishing. the reality is that the situation is very fragile. we are very vulnerable. commissioner, you could not rule out the possibility that, if we carry on as we are, a number of these fisheries will collapse altogether.
question 15 by jim higgins (h-000127/11) subject: proposed ban on shark finning in light of the recent support by the members of the european parliament for the banning of shark finning, and given the fact that congress in the united states has introduced legislation banning the practice and that other jurisdictions feel very strongly that such legislation should be implemented, what does the commission propose in terms of giving legislative effect to the concerns of meps?
with the lions disappearing from africa and the sharks disappearing from our seas, i commend the commissioner for what she is trying to do, but this is very much market driven. there was a huge demand from asia for shark fins, and there is a great deal of money to be made from them. the only way of ensuring that we are properly able to police and quantify what is going on is to ensure that fins are landed attached to the shark’s body. that way we can retain control. i hope the commissioner will bear this in mind when she draws up her proposals.
question 16 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-000142/11) subject: new maritime strategy for the mediterranean in view of the new challenges arising from developments in the mediterranean arab countries, it is necessary to adopt a maritime strategy as part of the 25-point integrated plan of action for the mediterranean. the eu has drawn up legislation and strategies to promote the sustainable use of the sea, the conservation of maritime eco-systems and the protection of the resources essential for maritime activities of a social and economic nature. will the commission adopt new maritime policy objectives as part of the new euro-mediterranean strategy? what progress is being made by eu initiatives in this area, for example with regard to pollution in the mediterranean? what instruments does it have at its disposal to facilitate the adaptation of the mediterranean area to climate change and avert the serious risks arising from flooding, coastal erosion and further land deterioration? how do mediterranean energy transport policies fit into the maritime strategy? what measures are being taken and what forms of cooperation with mediterranean partners are being envisaged with a view to protecting shipping and curbing illegal immigration by sea?
question 17 by georgios papanikolaou (h-000108/11) subject: training of researchers and assessment of universities in the flagship initiative on innovation the europe 2020 flagship initiative ‘innovation union’ (chapter 2) published recently by the commission refers, among other things, to the obligation of the member states to announce strategies for training enough researchers to meet their national strategic programme targets and the commission's intention, in the same year, to support an international multi-dimensional system to benchmark the performance of european higher educational foundations. i ask the commission: how will it ensure the target of 3% for research by 2020 will be met across the board without variations in investments being seen between the member states? does the commission think that the fiscal crisis in the eurozone member states could put the intended targets at risk? what are the criteria for benchmarking higher educational foundations in europe to identify those which show the best performance in the field of research?
question 18 by ioannis a. tsoukalas (h-000111/11) subject: minimal checks and a high percentage of errors in projects in the 7th fp for research from the commissioner's answer to question e-8013/2010 answer of 25.11.2010. serious questions arise as to the effectiveness of the checks on the 7th fp. up to 31 august 2010 the competent services carried out only 118 checks on 193 participants, a percentage of 0.42% of participants in the 7th fp, whereas the percentage for the 6th fp was 5.7%. these findings are worrying since over 4% of the budget for the projects was judged to have been wrongly spent. if this trend is not halted, it cannot be ruled out that financial corrections of more than eur 2 billion may be required for the whole of the 7th fp. i ask the commission: what are the latest data on the number and outcome of checks that have been carried out on 7th fp projects? to what is the large number of errors due? does it consider the results satisfactory and are efforts to simplify the rules for management of the 7th fp sufficient? what immediate actions will it take to deal with the problem?
question 19 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-000114/11) subject: involvement of smes in european research and innovation on 9 february 2011 the commission launched the green paper from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding. following public consultation, the commission will develop a common strategic framework to facilitate both the guidance of research and innovation (r&i) activity, to address the challenges of today’s society, and the simplification of the procedures for accessing european funds for r&i, reduction of the amount of time taken to introduce the outcomes of research within the market, and greater involvement of european enterprises in r&i activities. within the context of the eu 2020 strategy, the eu has set itself the target of the funds allocated to r&i activities reaching 3% of gdp by 2020. because the private sector has a low level of financing for r&i, i would like to ask the commission: what measures does it envisage to stimulate the involvement of this sector in the funding of european r&i? what measures does the commission envisage to help smes overcome the difficulties encountered in accessing european funds for r&i? does the commission plan to allocate a european funding quota solely for smes?
question 26 by bernd posselt (h-000107/11) subject: air pollution in german cities how does the commission assess the state of air pollution in german cities, for instance in munich, and what measures does it propose?
our next question comes from mrs kadenbach, who is replaced tonight by mr arsenis.
question 28 by nikolaos chountis (h-000122/11) subject: waste management in greece in its answer of 9 august 2010 to written question e-3732/2010 answer of 9.8.2010 the commission said that it 'considers landfill disposal to be the least and last desirable manner for managing and treating waste'. in greece there are plans to construct 61 landfill sites with cofinancing arrangements. these plans have naturally met with opposition from local residents in many areas (lefkimi, grammatiko and especially keratea), who are forced to accept this ' least and last desirable' solution. according to the press, environmental organisations, political parties and local authorities, the government's persistence in seeking to impose this technology and methods for collecting and managing waste are connected with certain corporate interests, something that could result in a fresh political and economic scandal. can the commission answer the following questions: independently of the choices made by each country, does it consider it preferable from an ecological and environmental point of view to use the option proposed by environmental organisations (wwf, greenpeace, sos mediterranean, etc.) that waste should be sorted by households at source rather than recycled at waste plants? will it undertake to study these proposals without delay and send a representative to the areas concerned to hold discussions with all the bodies affected?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.20 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, democracy is not just a periodic right to put a cross on a ballot paper. democracy depends also on a connection between government and governed – an affinity. to have a functioning democracy you need a ‘demos’, you need a unit with which we identify when we use the word ‘we’. if you take the ‘demos’ out of democracy you are left only with the ‘kratos’, with the power of a system that must compel by force of law what it may not ask in the name of civic patriotism. you cannot create the institutions of functioning representative government by bureaucratic fiat. we have tried it in the european union. we have created all the attributes and trappings: the european parliament, the political parties, the elections and so on, but you cannot make people feel european in the same sense that somebody might feel norwegian, japanese, french, portuguese or whatever it is. a party should grow organically because its members recognise a community of identity and common interests. it is not something that we can do with public funding or at the stroke of a bureaucrat’s pen. so, to be clear, the ecr opposes this legislation, we oppose the concept of having transnational parties. we form some of our constituent members into an alliance of parties but we oppose the single statute. we oppose the increases in the budget – which seems to me an extraordinary allocation of resources in the present economic climate – and i oppose my compatriot and my friend andrew duff’s idea that these transnational parties should be allowed to spend effectively eu money in national referendum campaigns. you will not create europeans by spending public money. not all the gold in all our national treasuries put together can serve to convince people of a false idea.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this legislation will allow the eu to throw money at referendum campaigns to ensure that it purchases the right result first time, for a change! the uk will in future be holding a referendum each time the eu proposes to remove power from its electorate. the eu is frightened out of its wits that we may give a series of wrong answers. so it intends to remove money from uk taxpayers to indoctrinate them into its version of the path of true righteousness. fronting the legislation is andrew duff, a liberal democrat mep from my own region. support in the uk for his party has collapsed recently – a party of course desperate for eu institutions to govern the uk. never has the eu’s gerrymandering been so clearly displayed alongside its contempt for uk voters. it is sowing the seeds of its own destruction, because the legislation will allow us to fund the referendum campaign that many in my country have for a very long time been waiting for – the one that gives us the opportunity to remove ourselves entirely from its control.
mr president, would my colleague mr agnew agree with me that a political party that would accept funding under this legislation, as a single european party, and which in particular would have to observe the eu’s programme and activities and the founding principles of european law, and the development of european law at all levels regionally, nationally and at european level, would be a party which has lost its principles? would you agree with me, mr agnew?
mr president, i say to ms sinclaire that we will take what we can out of this because we use the devil’s money to do god’s work. that is what we do, and well you know it.
will you accept the principle of european law though?
no, of course we do not. that is why we are here.
mr president, national political parties are now failing to sustain european integration in a democratic and efficient manner. this is very serious. there is a gap to fill, and essential democratic sinew is needed to connect the citizen and the european powers that are exercised in parliament and the council. the time for european political parties has come, not as a substitute for national political parties but as a complement to them, to challenge and compete with each other for support for ideas and for candidates. the development of european political parties is a critical link for the success of the transnational list proposal that this house is to be considering next month. i urge parliament to support the giannakou report with great courage and optimism for the future of post-national democracy.
mr president, the proposal that i am promoting is that a transnational list should be drawn from at least a third of the member states. that is not very many. if mr van der stoep cannot attract colleagues with political affinity from six other states, i recommend that he examines the validity and credibility of his political opinions.
mr president, earlier today i spoke in this chamber about my constituency, the west midlands, and the economic hardships it is going through. one of the last things that people there want is more money to be spent on politicians – they already have too many politicians, including meps, wasting their money as it is. what this is, is a step, and europe is willing to throw this money at creating that further step on the road to a super state. it has its parliament, its president and its foreign affairs adviser, and now it wants the political parties to go with that. because what it wants is a nation called the european union. even the most euro-sceptic members of this parliament are willing to trade their principles to take their money. well done! is that what europe wants? does it want to buy its way to power?
mr president, the tide of opinion is moving one way in many of our nations, but the european union and this parliament curiously seek to swim in a different direction. there is no demand from our citizens for transnational politicians. this parliament now wants to spend even more public money, when our national governments are having to make reductions in public expenditure. i speak, mr president, in my capacity as president of new direction, the foundation for european reform. to my mind, it is unacceptable that the costs of political foundations should be increasing at a rate of over 30% year on year. in 2009, eur 6.3 million was spent; by 2012 this will have doubled to eur 12.3 million. some might say that if you object to this, why does your foundation accept funding? well, the answer to that is quite simply that any funds we do not accept are distributed among the foundations of the other political groups; we would be funding the activities of our political opponents. we need to find a way of returning money to our national exchequers.
mr president, this debate tonight is symptomatic of all that is wrong with the ‘more europe’ agenda. it is simply staggering for me to have listened and to see how greatly removed the debate is from the agenda of ordinary citizens. mr duff quite rightly acknowledges that there is a gap to fill between the european powers and the individual citizens. that is absolutely right, but that gap will not be filled by developing european parties and, as another contributor to the debate has said, giving those parties the resources to match their ambitions. i would challenge mr duff to go to his constituency at the weekend and try to sell those views to local community groups that have had their funding cut because of austerity measures imposed by his coalition government in the united kingdom. the gap will be filled, however, by giving people their say on lisbon, on increasing federalism, and on the litany of red tape that comes from these institutions.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, after 30 years, the destructive practice of discards is to be addressed. fleets at grimsby are a few dozen fishing boats, where once there were a hundred. two years ago west of scotland fishermen tabled a plan to conserve white fish but, while they wait, stock depletion continues. a regional approach is suggested – why not? the eu divides the land into regions. much worse is the renewal of licences for european fleets to raid the waters of the comoros islands – and raid it will be, for local fishermen cannot compete with the superior eu-powered trawlers. the same thing has been done to others in that area. is the house surprised that somali fishermen denied a living have resumed the age-old vice of piracy? five years ago, did members see the tv pictures of hundreds of western saharans trying to seek refuge in the canaries? eu licences had just been renewed for their waters and they too had seen it all before. in a pitiful, desperate attempt many died on the 800-mile journey in fishing boats never intended for the open sea. however, the eu does not care that people from the least-developed countries have been impoverished by its actions and, for that, it deserves to be condemned.
mr president, one of our rapporteurs spoke of the distrust of fishermen for the common fisheries policy. it is little wonder, because the common fisheries policy currently constituted has seen the destruction of our fleet but has not seen the build-up of fish stocks. from my point of view, the sooner we can get fisheries policy returned to member states, the better. however, i recognise that this is unlikely to happen in the short term, so i have a few observations to make on this joint fisheries debate. first, the issue of establishing a community financial measure for the implementation of the common fisheries policy. so long as the eu is able to interfere in our fisheries, it would seem to me that that interference should be properly funded. however, while we seek to guarantee the funding that is available for the administration of the cap, we should bear a thought for the stakeholders – in particular our fishermen – who struggle to keep abreast of the multitude of current rules and regulations, let alone those they are consulted upon. i am increasingly hearing from a variety of maritime stakeholders that the entire industry is struggling to deal with this particular issue.
mr president, the grelier report gives too many concessions to the commission, i would say. west of scotland fishermen find it difficult to understand why it is that the commission can say that it wants to eliminate discards and at the same time reject amendments to these technical measures. the commission prefers to extend the current range of technical measures that are causing discards, including of haddock, for at least another 18 months. the commission prefers another 18 months of so-called temporary measures, which have failed to conserve the stocks. another 18 months of dumping dead fish back into the sea. i urge colleagues tomorrow to support all of the amendments in our vote and i hope that these amendments will be adopted and, if they are adopted, i hope that the commission will change its attitude and grasp the opportunity that presents itself to act now on discards, not just talk about action at some time in the future.
mr president, i have lodged an amendment to the technical measures regulation to try to resolve the anomaly that ian hudghton just referred to, which has arisen off the west coast of scotland. in a well-intentioned attempt to conserve white-fish stocks in this area, the commission introduced temporary catch composition rules for a period of 12 months at the end of 2009, but these temporary rules have already been rolled over for a further year under a catch-all agreement that extended all eu technical measures for 12 months. now the commission is seeking to roll the rules over yet again to the end of 2012 while it prepares a new framework for technical measures under the cfp reform package. the unintended consequence of this will mean that a temporary regulation that was introduced for a period of only one year will now run for at least three years, during which time the circumstances in the west of scotland have changed dramatically, forcing our fishermen to dump good fresh haddock back into the sea, dead. i hope parliament will support my amendment tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it gives me very great pleasure to be able to welcome the excellent reports from the three rapporteurs, and indeed to thank all the members – not just those on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, but also those on the many other committees represented here, who have joined us in what has been a great enterprise. we have seen already from the quality of the contributions across the political field how engaged we are with the topic. we have had lively debates and lively arguments, but we have been united in a common goal of wanting to make the competitive single market economy work, a competitive social market economy work, and for those two things to be linked together. we have achieved that in what we have done so far. the history of this important project, referred to by a number of you, had its seeds first of all in professor monti’s work, for which i pay him tribute, and in a desire by my committee – and i want to thank all the coordinators particularly for the support and energy they put behind this – to say that parliament needed a response to this as well. we had a feeling that the completion of the essential foundation of the eu 2020 strategy for smart growth and jobs and innovation – the single market – was not really reflected as a political priority. we have been able to work with the commissioner – and here i pay tribute to michel barnier who seized that opportunity to work with us – to express this as a political priority in the form of the single market act. that has been a real success for parliament. it is a lesson on how committees can use their power of political initiative by working together to take that movement forward, because if it were not for parliament we would not be here today. i am delighted to see that martin schulz is here – the only group leader here – whom i warmly welcome. i hope that this is a lesson he will absorb in the future work that he may do in this parliament. thinking about what is in this report, a number of messages have come through. first of all, a number of colleagues have said that in areas like goods and services in particular we have done a huge amount of work but that it is not well enough known, people are not taking advantage of it. there are also areas which we really have to develop. some of them are in the eu 2020 strategy, in innovation and digital networks. green technologies are not reflected enough, though some are not fit for purpose. i am very pleased at what you said about public procurement, and mutual recognition also needs to change. we are going to work together on those, but today we have created the framework and the foundation in which to move those forward. again i want to thank all of you who are engaged in that great effort on behalf of all european citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to put a question mr harbour, who is a fellow mep for the west midlands in the uk. he talked a great deal about being in the european union and the influence this gives; indeed he is the chair of one of the most influential committees here in the european parliament – the single market committee. he is actually the only conservative mep who is a committee chair. he recently brought forward a written declaration in support of small businesses, but only got just over 200 signatures. is that the level of his influence? or is he just a europhile in euro-sceptic clothing in a no-meaning ecr group that deceives the british public over and over again?
mr president, mrs sinclaire and i represent a region of the united kingdom whose citizens depend on the single market for their jobs and for their future. i work with small enterprises all the time, and i can tell her that small enterprises in the midlands supplying the great companies in the car industry, just down the road from where she and i live, are working overtime at the moment because of new opportunities that we have created by giving them a framework to go and attack a market numbering 500 million people – that big an area. i do not apologise at all for the work i do here. i wish other people would be more constructive and do real work for their local citizens, instead of merely coming here to complain. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, first of all the rule book states that if a member of this house wishes to make a point of order, the president should give way, and it was a procedural point of order i wished to make. these blue cards allow a member to ask another member a question. now if the member disregards that question, i think it is up to you, mr president, to ask the member to answer that question. my question was simple: how did mr harbour’s influence help with adoption of his written declaration, which failed to get the requisite number of signatures?
mr president, i shall start by thanking all the rapporteurs for their efforts, but especially mrs kalniete for all her hard work, and for the leadership of our chair, malcolm harbour. the uk government estimates that the value of a true single market would add up to eur 800 billion of the eu’s gdp – a truly astonishing figure. there is still much to do to deliver this. improving governance of the single market must be a key strategic priority for the eu. it is vital that in these difficult economic times we look to enhance our competitiveness, increase growth, create jobs and drive innovation. i am pleased with the outcome of this report, which stresses the importance of a clear commitment and ownership by member states to relaunch the single market, which is vital for its success. by carrying out a rigorous monitoring process, and by reducing the time it takes to transpose directives, member states will be able to increase trade and ensure a well-functioning single market. i am also very supportive of the priority action highlighted in mr correia de campos’ report in relation to the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, for which i will be the rapporteur. we must urgently identify the obstacles faced by member states in implementing this directive and by the professionals themselves.
mr president, mrs kalniete wants to relaunch the single market and makes it sound like a v-2 rocket: extremely dangerous but never on target. mr correia de campos is concerned about movement of workers. well, so am i. the eu has swamped the united kingdom with extra workers. the united kingdom sees the world as the market. the straightjacket of the eu regulation is closing our industry, stopping innovation when it is ahead of the regulations and closing traditional industry, where the product is good but different from the approved continental version. small business is the victim here. the united kingdom is amongst those which do comply, yet it suffers because it does: for example, expensive compliance in the pig and egg industries with regulations that the commission will not enforce, making our product uncompetitive. i have many more examples, but have been allocated just one minute to save small businesses.
mr president, the european union’s greatest achievement is the establishment of the single market. the free movement of goods, services, labour and capital drives innovation and increases the prosperity of the 500 million people who live in europe. the common market was the reason my country joined the eec, and the single market is the reason we remain part of the eu, but in recent years the eu’s focus has strayed from completing the single market. too much time and money has been wasted on grandiose projects that do not benefit the people we represent. i believe it is time to refocus our attention on the single market. its expansion and success is crucial for our economies. it is one of the few areas where the eu can deliver growth rather than impede it. i would ask the commissioner to be bold. rather than creating more regulations that drive jobs away from the city of london, i would ask him to focus on creating a competitive and job-creating single market for europe.
mr president, when dealing with european union reports, never trust the label and always look at the contents of the packet. these reports appear to be about the single market, trade and the transfer of jobs from higher-wage economies to lower-wage economies. however, one rapporteur has not lost the opportunity to look for yet another pretext for yet further immigration – not just within europe, but by clear implication from outside europe. the correia de campos report refers to an influx of highly-qualified workers and seasonal workers – not usually known for their surfeit of qualification – as being beneficial to the european economy. people are seen not as human beings, but as mobile factors of production. bringing skilled workers from the third world robs poor countries of people they can ill afford to lose. furthermore, bring third world people to europe and you bring part of the third world with them. you cannot turn them into new europeans by the application of a little cultural stardust. people are not the product of distinctive cultures; distinctive cultures are the product of distinctive peoples.
mr president, the debate is essential because by making the single market work more effectively we have the potential to create economic growth, which fundamentally results in the creation of jobs. i was pleased that a compromise has been reached on the subject of the social clause. the balance between the market and our social values is vitally important; to have lost this principle would have been deeply damaging. on the digital agenda, although many member states are making progress, it is sadly also seen by many as non-essential. if member states do not deliver on this agenda, the competiveness of the whole eu suffers. what pressure can be brought to bear to ensure that no eu citizen, wherever he or she lives, is left behind in this digital revolution which surrounds us? finally, on public procurement, i welcome the commission’s proposals. however, how do we ensure that innovative public procurement is at the heart of our agenda?
mr president, earlier in this debate my colleague mr de jong said i was out of order in the comments i made in my question to a colleague. i do not think it is out of order to request a question on the balance of influence of a member of this house on that institution. can i respectfully ask that i have some silence so i can actually make a speech? it is not fair that a person can be criticised for asking a question in this parliament. the question was not answered and should be answered. instead, my colleague answered the question about jobs in the west midlands. would he then be reminded how the eu subsidised jobs out of the ryton plant in coventry?
mr president, meps have an important role to play in scrutinising decisions on health claims. i have received many letters and emails of concern from parents, major health and consumer organisations, midwives, nurses and doctors’ organisations, as well as unicef and the who. until there is real consensus in the scientific community about the validity of this claim, we must not allow it. the evidence we currently have is not conclusive and no evidence exists to support the use of such a claim on follow-on formulas. if, in the future, synthesised dha is proven to be truly beneficial to babies, we should make it an essential ingredient in all formulas, and not allow it to be used as a marketing ploy by a specific brand. i would urge you to support this resolution.
mr president, reading our voting list today i have the feeling that i am reading a long and expensive bill of fare. each of these items comes down to a reallocation of resources from european taxpayers either to some fishing fund, or the solidarity fund, or rescuing flood-stricken areas, or whatever it is. i would like to focus on one particular abuse of this process, which is the use of article 122(2) to mobilise money for bail-outs of stricken economies, specifically that of portugal. this fund was designed for natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. it has been reinterpreted to mean an economy that has run out of money. it is patently illegal. not only is it not provided for in the treaties; it is expressly forbidden under the ‘no bail-out clause’. this chamber is in plain violation of its own regulations. in bailing out these countries, we are hurting them – because you do not help an indebted friend by pressing more loans on them – and, of course, we are hurting our own taxpayers as well as violating the law. it is absurd that ireland and greece will be joining the bail-out of portugal. you cannot carry on forever getting deeper and deeper in debt. the day of reckoning is coming.
mr president, in yesterday’s votes we discussed the issue of migration. one of the issues that should have been discussed concerning migration is how do we make it less attractive for people to leave their own country, or more attractive to stay in their own country, and why do they seek to leave their country, often breaking family and other local emotional ties? one of the things we have to look at is the impact of our policies in the eu. when we sign these fishing agreements – often with governments of countries and they benefit from this – do these agreements really benefit local fishermen? surely we should be re-examining all these fisheries agreements, and instead of signing fisheries agreements we should perhaps be increasing the fishing capacity of local fishermen to spread wealth and create more jobs locally so that people want to stay in their own countries rather than seek to leave. if we do not think carefully about the implications of some of these agreements, we will see more demand for migration and will end up debating migration rather than the issues we are debating here.
mr president, i and my ukip colleagues abstained on the amendments to the guillaume report on granting and withdrawing international protection, but one should not take this as indifference. this report is a development of the common immigration and asylum policy under the lisbon treaty. i do not want the lisbon treaty, or a common immigration and asylum policy. the peoples of europe do not want a common immigration and asylum policy, and that is why they were denied a referendum on the lisbon treaty. i abstained on the amendments because it would have involved endorsing existing eu law and a nit-picking exercise to decide which bits were worse than others. i leave it to the quisling meps of the conservative, labour, liberal democratic and green parties to haggle about the terms of surrender of their country. i and my ukip colleagues voted ‘no’ to this report and ‘no’ to a common immigration and asylum policy.
mr president, it is spend, spend, spend, isn’t it? we keep hearing about the 500 citizens in this chamber, but this chamber separates itself from them as much as possible. amendment 15 insisted that the salaries and allowances of meps should not be updated in 2012 to set an example, but 391 of our colleagues voted against it because they obviously do not care about the average eu citizen, do they? the average eu wage is eur 368 a week, but some of our colleagues – 60 to 70 of our colleagues – continually sign in on a friday here in strasbourg, when there is no business, to claim eur 304. what example is that giving? another waste of money: how many billions is this house of history going to cost, to sell propaganda and tell how the european union ‘saved the world’?
mr president, i voted against this report. you can keep your 30 pieces of silver. i will not be joining any pan-european party. i will not be selling out my principles as some in this chamber are willing to do. it is not fair that the public, once again, have to use their resources to fund politicians. politicians should be privately funded through donations, etc., and that should be heavily regulated. this chamber found out only recently how politicians do need to be regulated, but the funding of political parties for a european ideal can never be right. i will never join a pan-european party. i will stand up for my principles and to hell with the lot of you.
mr president, today we have voted on the three single market act reports and their key priorities; i hope the commission and council have taken note of these. we need to make sure that we deliver on this for all citizens, in order to allow the european economy to grow, provide jobs and compete globally. we need to make sure that eu legislation is implemented across the board to reduce the barriers to trade, but also that we do not make eu legislation that increases the burden on our businesses.
in writing. − i voted for this commission proposal for mobilisation of the eusf which is based on point 26 of the iia of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management that allows for such mobilisation within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. the conditions of eligibility to the fund are detailed in council regulation no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf. it should be recalled that the objective of the fund is to repair infrastructure and act as a refinancing tool, and not to compensate private damages. this proposal for mobilisation of the eusf is the first to be presented by the commission for the year 2011.
in writing. − i support this commission proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. on the basis of applications for assistance by poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, romania and candidate country croatia relating to the flooding disasters of may, june and july 2010, it proposes the application of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the european community and non-member countries, termed ‘fisheries partnership agreements’ (fpa) since 2004, has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (cfp) and is central to the policy’s external dimension. under the agreements with african and pacific countries, the eu’s financial contribution is to a large extent expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources. the partnership agreements therefore amount to a commitment to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels might be operating, based on a thorough assessment of the resources available, making sure that the fishing opportunities to be used have been vouched for by credible scientific opinions and ruling out any risk of depleting local stocks.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed, as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits. the rapporteur believes that these upgrades to the euromed free trade agreements can contribute towards economic and political stability in this key region with a view to consolidating a single shore of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, plurality, democracy and respect. furthermore, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations and could represent a further step towards the setting up and proper functioning of the euromed free trade area.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur who proposes that parliament gives its consent to this agreement. lingering disputes have a negative effect on the business community and on end-consumers on both shores of the mediterranean.
in writing. − notwithstanding the uncertain situation in egypt, i think parliament is right to press ahead with the approval of this agreement which should make life easier for businesses without making any political comment on the current egyptian government.
in writing. − i voted for this technical report giving approval for the ukraine to participate in european union programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ms fraga’s report, which allows greenland to export fishery products to the eu despite not being a member. when greenland won significant home-rule and decided to opt out of the ec they had to negotiate their exit. this precedent gives the lie to false claims that internal enlargement of the eu would require newly independent eu states to reapply for membership.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which lays down rules regarding imports into the eu from greenland of fishery products and other marine products. greenland and the eu intend to enter into a sanitary arrangement on these products, with the objective being that greenland can trade these commodities with the eu on the basis of internal market rules, provided that greenland transposes eu sanitary and animal health rules on fishery products.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained on the amendments to this report. this was not due to indifference on our part; rather it is because this report is a development of the common immigration and asylum policy under the lisbon treaty. the peoples of europe do not want the lisbon treaty or a common immigration and asylum policy either, which is why they were denied a referendum on the lisbon treaty. to vote on the amendments would have entailed endorsing existing eu legislation (which we don’t want either) and a nit-picking exercise in order to decide which bits were worse than others. therefore, ukip meps abstained on the amendments but voted a resounding ‘no’ to the report as a whole.
in writing. − as a ukip mep i am against any kind of eu interference in the uk system of asylum and in any related directive which would force eu rules on the uk. i therefore abstained on votes to all amendments because i will not accept even those that might be seen to be helpful; this is a matter for the uk alone. i therefore voted against the amended proposal and against the legislative resolution.
in writing. − the guillaume report covers important areas of law and emphasises the need for human rights to be fully respected in relation to people seeking asylum. my own country, scotland, does not as yet have control over immigration. however, the policies which have been implemented by successive uk governments have been quite inhumane. i am proud to be a member of a party which has actively campaigned against the brutal incarceration of young children seeking asylum.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the first days when refugees arrive in europe are crucial in determining their status and european countries must, by 2012, improve their asylum procedures at that very first stage, according to the report. notably, the adopted report calls on eu countries to enhance the minimum procedural safeguards, particularly as regards the right to free legal assistance, the right to information, and the right to personal interview; to give special attention to vulnerable applicants, like children; and the adoption, in codecision with the european parliament, of a common list of safe third countries.
in writing. − my group supported the report on statistics on tourism, which updates and modernises the method for collecting european statistics on tourism, particularly in the light of modern trends such as low-cost flights and short-stay holidays. politicians need to acknowledge the great importance of the tourism industry to europe. individual member states realise that more must be done to help this sector, which contributes greatly to economic growth. for example, tourism is one of the largest sectors of the uk economy. it directly supports 1.36 million jobs – and an expected 1.5 million by 2020 – and nearly 3 million if indirect employment is included. these figures speak for themselves! the uk is keen to participate actively and positively in discussions on tourism at eu level, supporting fully the need to improve the competitiveness of the european tourism industry and its capacity for sustainable growth. however, we must ensure that eu-level action does not encroach on the principle of subsidiarity. member states are competing with each other, despite being able to share best practice and cooperate on certain issues, such as improving transport links across europe and other measures enabling easier consumer travel. let me end with a simple message – visit britain!
in writing. − i voted for this report which recognises the major role of statistics in the development of more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional and local levels. in the same manner, tourism statistics represent a useful tool to support decision-making in business and in the private sector. therefore, the rapporteur supports the aim of the proposed regulation to establish a common framework for the systematic production of european statistics on tourism by means of the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised european statistics on tourism supply and demand. once adopted, the proposal is likely to improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted, as well as the efficiency of the data-processing, including better validation of data. furthermore, it is necessary to adapt the legal framework to reflect recent trends in the tourism industry by introducing new variables, for instance concerning same-day visits.
in writing. − i was able to support mr ferreira’s report. it is essential that there should be adequate funds for enforcement of the law of the sea, and this is one of the few fisheries-related areas where the eu provides some added value.
in writing. − i voted for this report . the modifications made in this legislation should facilitate moves towards a policy of regionalisation for the cfp which i welcome.
in writing. − ‘no more discards!’ cries the commission. ‘listen to the industry’ is its pretended watchword. then it seeks to reimpose fundamentally flawed regulations for a further 18 months. no less than 42% of west of scotland haddock catches are dumped back into the sea because of these rules. today’s vote means that this obscenity will continue for another 18 months. london labour backed the commission: yet another shameful betrayal of our coastal communities!
in writing. − i voted for this resolution but, in order to support the scottish fishing industry, i want haddock exempted from the regulation.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution as i cannot support a 2.3% increase in parliament’s budget at a time when the council has made cuts of 4.4% and the commission will limit its administrative expenditure rise to 1%.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on this report because at a time of austerity across the european union it seems ridiculous to support projects such as the european house of history. this may be a worthy project in its own right, but clearly it would be remiss of parliament, which represents the people, to agree with this expenditure at this time.
in writing. − given the tough austerity measures currently being taken across all member states i believe that it is inappropriate to provide funding for a european house of history at this time which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which challenges an authorised claim about baby food. the authorised claim is about dha, a fatty acid found naturally in breast milk, which, in breast milk, is known to be important in the development of babies’ vision. however, the synthesised dha which is added to formula milk is different. formula milk producer mead johnson has applied to the european food standards agency (efsa) and the standing committee on food chain and animal health (scfcah) for permission to use the health claim ’docosahexaenoic acid (dha) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age’. the claim has been authorised, based on evidence supplied by mead johnson. however, an independent review of all the available evidence on dha in formula milk in 2008 found that adding dha to formula milk ’had no proven benefit regarding vision, cognition or physical growth’. furthermore, no studies were submitted to efsa that showed the effect of giving a baby follow-on formula supplemented with dha after feeding the baby non-supplemented infant formula from birth. as this claim would only be allowed on follow-on formulas, this is crucial.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as i believe that the health claims relating to dha have not been scientifically supported and feel strongly that consumers should not be misinformed.
in writing. − in light of the fact that the world health organisation maintains that ‘no solid evidence exists to be able to say that adding dha to infant formula will have important clinical benefits’, i chose to vote against allowing companies to make unsubstantiated claims about the health benefits of dha. there is a danger that these potentially misleading claims could result in an increase in formula milk being given to children who could lose out on vital nutrients, such as dha, that are found naturally in breast milk.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which calls for better definition of investor protection standards and greater transparency in the arbitration system, the right to appeal against decisions by international arbitrators and the possibility to consult trades unions and civil society organisations. until now, investment agreements were so focused on investor protection that companies could sometimes operate in developing countries without respect for environmental or social considerations. such behaviour will no longer be tolerated. this is why the report calls for new rules and for corporate social responsibility to be a core element of any future agreement. the world has changed. the eu will increasingly receive foreign investment and we cannot push investor protection to the detriment of the general interest. the report calls for a real balance between public and private interests. it aims at effective protection of european investors from illegitimate expropriations or disguised legislation intended to cut them out of certain markets. it also guarantees that public authorities will always be able to regulate in favour of the general interest. i call for root and branch reform of the dispute settlement mechanism, which so far enabled private companies to take legal action against countries and sometimes attack their social and environmental law.
in writing. − i believe that the eu’s right to regulate in the public interest needs to be protected and also that we need to ensure the responsible behaviour of european investors outwith the eu, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. − fraud within the eu strikes at the very integrity of the system. it is vital that the eu and its member states continue the important work in this area and i was able to support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which strongly criticises the commission for providing too little information on fraud and irregularities. this is considered a result of bad reporting by member states. the fraud rates in france and spain are, for example, considered ‘suspiciously low’. in future, we want to see a clear division between irregularities and fraud, given that fraud is a criminal offence, whereas an irregularity is a failure to comply with a rule. the report also asks for a breakdown of estimated fraud and irregularities for each member state so that disciplinary action can be taken against individual countries. large amounts of eu funding is still spent incorrectly, says the resolution. parliament calls on the commission to take action to ensure prompt recovery of those funds, especially in italy. in agriculture and cohesion policy in particular, the rate of recovery of outstanding amounts is ‘catastrophic’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the fight against fraud is not only in the eu’s financial interest but is also crucial to protecting consumers.
in writing. − we in ukip are opposed in principle to european political parties. the only authentic way of representing the opinion and views of the electors of the member states is a national political party. nonetheless, it would be wrong if only the parties of the european superstate were eligible to benefit from taxpayers' money, if that is what is on offer. that is why ukip reserves the right to participate in a european political party. it would be wholly wrong if many millions of britons and other peoples in the continent's nation states who oppose the european project should have their voice stifled by the political establishment.
in writing. − ukip is, in principle, against european political parties. they are a waste of hard-pressed taxpayers’ money. there is no need for them, and the authentic way of representing the opinion of the peoples of the member states remains the national political party. nonetheless, it must be clearly understood that ukip reserves the right to participate in a european political party so that it too might benefit from those taxpayers’ money, the better to represent the many millions of britons and other people across the continent who oppose the european union and all its works and whose voice is stifled by the ruling political class.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which i see as a major step towards creating a legal statute governing political parties at the european level.
in writing. − the kalniete report rightly emphasises the importance of authorities below the member state government level in implementing rules relating to the single market. i fully support this sentiment and consider that, when scotland wins back her independence, it will be appropriate for those levels of government below the scottish national government to be fully involved in implementing single market rules.
in writing. − i voted for this report which states that one of the key challenges in relaunching the single market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination. the 50 proposals for relaunching the single market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the commission, and touch upon the jurisdiction of various committees in the european parliament. in the council the single market act is furthermore split into different council configurations whose role and effectiveness vary a great deal. national institutions also differ a lot in the ways that they are configured and in their organisational cultures.
in writing. − i supported the twelve measures contained in the single market act, in particular focussing on the digital agenda and innovative procurement. i hope to see this translated into effective legislative measures by the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which rightly highlights the need to ‘respect the principles of subsidiarity and member state sovereignty’. it is just a pity that not all member states are prepared to recognise where sovereignty lies. in 1953 the lord president of scotland’s highest civil court confirmed that, unlike in other parts of the uk, in scottish constitutional law sovereignty lies with the people. how unfortunate therefore it is that all the unionist parties blocked attempts by the scottish government to promote this principle by way of a referendum on scottish independence.
in writing. − i voted for this report. efforts to achieve the single market have been concentrated on the market and its organisation and very little on concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers, which can explain the europeans’ reluctance and fatigue regarding the internal market. citizens need to be placed at the heart of the single market. this is clearly stated in the introduction of the document; however, the proposals to implement that goal are too weak to achieve it.
in writing. − the buşoi report calls for a business-friendly single market and quite rightly stresses the importance of smes. in one part of the eu, scotland, tens of thousands of small businesses have benefitted from the scottish government's small business bonus scheme and i hold this up as an example of best practice for other european nations.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the single market itself and the enterprises operating within it are vital for the future growth of eu economies. this draft report outlines the priority measures which should be taken to build a stronger single market that responds better to the needs of eu businesses and which would generate higher growth rates than before. the priorities of the rapporteur are arranged in four groups, aiming at transforming the single market in an innovative, business-friendly environment, based on a digital economy and where free movement of services is effective. a well functioning single market for services has an important potential for growth and hence for our economic recovery. only sustainable growth can guarantee the creation of sustainable jobs
in writing. − the european commission’s proposed single market act aims to unlock the potential of the single market and put the eu’s economy and competitiveness back on track after the economic crisis. i voted for parliament’s recommendations on the commission’s single market act and i urge the european commission to take up those recommendations to ensure that governance structures are strengthened, support for innovation and job creation is provided and citizens are put at the heart of the single market. we need to work together on strengthening the governance of the single market and putting in place a more coordinated political leadership approach, which will increase the effectiveness of the single market act and restore citizens’ confidence in the initiative. i welcome the resolution calling for an increased focus on the mobility of citizens and i believe it is also essential that the re-launch of the single market focuses on the needs of smes in order to provide an environment that will create new, innovative businesses across the eu, and especially in wales.
in writing. − i supported the twelve measures contained in the single market act and hope that the commission will translate this into effective legislative measures.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i thank the president-in-office and the commissioner for their statements. their measured content is in contrast with some other contributions. first of all, let us remember that there is a world of difference between 50-year-old reactors in japan and the new designs under preparation in europe – a world of difference. let us also remember that there is a world of difference between the seismic risks faced in japan and those in western europe. we need, above all, to be absolutely certain about what happened before taking steps to review what we are doing and plan to do. modern reactors are being designed now to withstand risks that were unimaginable 20 or 50 years ago. i am glad to see you agree with me, mrs harms. (heckling from mrs harms)that was a rudery off-mike and you are taking up my speaking time, mrs harms. there is a proposal for a moratorium. i oppose that because it would be to act in haste without scientific evidence. we must find out what has happened before we take any steps to change our already impressive safety culture in europe. i agree we want to reinforce our safety culture, but let us not act in haste.
mr president, stress tests on technical standards are not enough. it is not just about earthquakes. the problem in japan was the accumulation of events: flooding, loss of off-site power and disruption of communications. we have seen how one problem leads to another, and that the very radioactivity of the site in fukushima now is hugely hampering the safety work which needs to go on. a nuclear accident is not a linear event; the consequences ripple outwards like the radioactivity which is still discharging into the sea. it is therefore vital that the proposed stress tests take into account the multiple, complex, geometric consequences of a disaster event. commissioner, as you say, member states have the right to decide their energy mix, but you have the responsibility for nuclear safety. do you agree that member states should impose a moratorium on the planning and commissioning of new nuclear plants? what will you be proposing to make sure that governments and investors focus instead, now, on how to get a greater commitment to energy efficiency and renewables?
mr president, i am deeply insulted that mrs harms merely heckled me from off microphone but waved her blue card at my colleague, mr reul. can i not have equal treatment?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say this to the minister: as i sat here listening to your statement, i heard what you had to say, but it was mere words – sometimes very sweet words, but unfortunately empty words. it was all reactionary; there was nothing proactive in what you put before us. as i listened, i actually wrote the heading ‘plan’ on a sheet of paper, where i intended to make notes of the information you would give us about what the eu was going to do. i still have before me a completely blank sheet. you had nothing to contribute today. there was nothing proactive in the agenda you outlined. people throughout the middle east are looking to europe to come forward and help them to gain their rights, and all you have for them is empty words. in the last action plan that was put forward there was a core element missing throughout, and there was much press debate about the fact that middle eastern leaders are still able to take money from their populations and bring it into europe, and we are doing nothing to prevent that from happening in the future. you yourself said that time is running out. if that is the case, and i believe it to be the case, then why have you come forward with nothing but a blank sheet for us today? please have more respect for this house.
mr president, whether it is the coordinated sniper attack or the protest camp in sana’a, yemen on 15 march, the crackdown on the protests by 100 000 people in dara, syria on 17 march or the sixth floor of salmaniya hospital, bahrain, where injured protestors are taken by men in balaclavas wielding guns, never to return, and where the injured are forced to go because it has the only blood bank in the country, we have to show that, while the media may only concentrate on one country at a time, this parliament will stand up for human rights everywhere where they are under threat. today we must call on the foreign affairs council to seek clear accountability for all those responsible for the violence, independent investigations and no impunity. this is the basic warning to prevent further violence against protestors now. secondly, when we hear that bahraini security forces have fired supposedly non-lethal pellets, at a distance of less than one metre, killing protestors by literally splitting their heads in half, we have to suspend the authorisation, supply and transfer of all arms in the region. finally, the principles of commissioner füle’s communication on the southern neighbourhood must inform our approach to the process of seeking an association agreement with syria. that has to start by our insisting on unhindered access for international human rights monitors now. the arab world has changed with the jasmine revolution and we have to show that we have changed with it.
mr president, last night i helped to organise a hearing of experts from the region who told us that in bahrain the deaths so far at the hands of the security forces have been at least 23; in syria 132; and in yemen at least 63. it may be asked: what can the eu do? well, our resolution which will be adopted tomorrow makes some suggestions. however, i have to say that in previous months the european parliament has passed resolutions on tunisia, egypt and libya, and my office has made a comparison between those resolutions and the actions of the commission, its blueprint for change, and it does not give me much courage. we are wasting our words here unless the commission listens to us and unless the council listens. so, as i say, i am publishing this analysis on my website. i believe that the lisbon treaty gave the european parliament additional responsibilities. we must be taken seriously by the other elements in the foreign policy of the european union. especially at a time of massive change in the arab world we all need to work together.
mr president, in syria security forces have brutally responded to demonstrations about legitimate grievances with lethal force. president assad’s belligerence and his rhetoric towards israel, our ally, his support for terrorists such as hezbollah and his friendship with iran all mark him out, in my view, as a dangerous autocrat. in contrast, bahrain is a relatively modern and progressive constitutional monarchy. unfortunately, shi’ite extremists, inspired and supported by iran, continue to stoke sectarian tensions and spread propaganda against the government and the king. the king has made patient efforts to listen to protestors’ concerns and enter into dialogue, but of course we must condemn all deaths of unarmed protestors. finally, it seems in yemen that president saleh, by his use of disproportionate force, has alienated his principle backers, including the united states, despite his firm action over many years to root out al-qa’ida terrorists. withdrawing eu support from him now, without knowing what comes afterwards, is a high-risk strategy. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we might ask what we should do to alleviate the political impasse and suffering of the people in these countries, but it presupposes three propositions. one, that it is within our capacity to do anything, two, that it is the proper role to do anything and three, that the present situation is not in any way attributable to our interference. british military personnel are, as we speak, being handed redundancy notices – often while on active duty – by the wretched uk government. it would be absurd to expect the remaining servicemen to be stretched to engage in further adventures. states make a solemn, but usually unwritten, covenant with their troops to send them into battle and risk their lives, but only when the vital interests of the nation or nationals are at stake. we have no vital interests in these states. there is also every reason to believe that external forces associated with the united states and its allies have a vested interest in destabilising syria. i have no brief for the ba’athist regime … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, minister, like many in this house today, i share a sense of horror at the violence and the human rights violations we have witnessed throughout the entire region. however, i could not let this moment pass without saying – particularly to you, minister – that your statement today on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy demonstrates most ably, and perhaps better than any of us could ever do, the nonsense of this office and the millions of euros we have spent on it. your message today is quite right: one of rejection of violence, one of promotion of dialogue, one of reform from within the countries concerned. but, quite frankly, in these situations it is all motherhood and apple pie. we need much, much more than the odd telephone call and a statement calling for this, that or the other; and i think that the people in the middle east ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to thank mrs theocharous for raising the issue of the status of the european parliament at international conferences: we are one of the three sister institutions of the eu and we need to have a look at this very quickly or there is going to be trouble. we are the largest donor to the least developed countries in the world; we have trebled aid in the last few years but poverty has increased, not decreased. some ten years ago pascal lamy and the development committee introduced ‘everything but arms’. gradually this parliament turned it into ‘anything but farms’. now the least developed countries in the world do not have industrial capacity, they have agriculture capacity. if you are really interested in eliminating poverty and helping these people, we need to increase their capacity to trade. it is not aid, but trade, that is going to reduce poverty. but in order to reduce poverty and to increase trade, we need to increase their capacity to export what they can export, which is agricultural produce, fisheries produce and so on. but we do not do that. we have introduced stringent standards, which is very important for the health of the european consumer, but we do not help to increase the capacity of these least developed countries. so, out of 51, only three have matriculated from being a least developed country to not being least developed country. we have got to increase that effort otherwise we are just fooling ourselves and those countries.
mr president, i wonder whether the honourable gentleman will agree with me – because he used a very strong word ‘steal’ – that we steal from developing countries. such an example could be that we give eur 2 million to a small island off the atlantic coast for their fisheries, for 7 000 tonnes of tuna, and we sell that on the streets of europe for eur 235 million. so we convert eur 2 million to eur 235 million. that is what we do with our fisheries policies.
mr president, the three key areas – the vulnerability of ldcs, sustainable development and the promotion of economic growth – are all welcome. however, i wanted to ask whether food security will be part of the discussions. there was mention of sub-saharan africa; currently 80% of sub-saharan african farmers are female. if we can help with the development of better agricultural methods, investing in those who are the most vulnerable in our world, helping them to feed themselves, we can make a huge contribution to the health and the wellbeing of the poorest in our world. i wish the delegation well as they go from this parliament to the conference, but i also look forward to the report back that we will hear from all those who will attend.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group fully supports icelandic accession to the european union, although the decision is firmly a matter for icelanders alone in a referendum. iceland is a small, stable and wealthy democracy and a founder member of nato and the council of europe. its economy is heavily dependent on fishing, however, having had a disastrous venture into financial services, and iceland is therefore likely to demand a significant concession to protect its fishing industries if it ever joins the eu. this would then, hopefully, provide the uk and other member states with an ideal opportunity to push for broader and further reform of the controversial common fisheries policy. with regard to whaling, i am make no apologies for it. i do not like bullfighting or cockfighting either but these are, believe it or not, allowed in some parts of the eu on the grounds of national culture, so if iceland joins the eu it must be allowed – in my personal view – to safeguard its whaling industry if it insists on so doing. finally, iceland must commit to repaying monies owed to the uk and the netherlands after the collapse of icesave. a negative result in the forthcoming referendum in iceland on this issue could prove a serious handicap with regard to support from the uk government.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in britain the first day of april is called april fool’s day and people take great delight in fooling one another. so when some report that iceland is on course to join the eu next year, i think: ‘april fool!’ in reality, a survey has shown that 64% of icelanders want to remain independent, only 24% want to carry on applying for eu membership and, indeed, 60% of icelandic businesses are against it. it is also said that iceland wants the security of the euro. april fool! even portugal’s own banks are currently refusing to buy portuguese bonds. iceland will neither give up its rich fishing grounds – producing 40% of its exports – to join the disastrous common fisheries policy nor abandon an icelandic parliament that is more than 1000 years old and the winner of a unesco award for democracy. even with a banking hangover, iceland, like britain, remains better off outside. no fooling there!
mr president, as is so common here, this debate has little connection to reality and none whatsoever to democracy. most here talk as though iceland being sucked into the euro black hole is a done deal. but that is not the message coming from icelanders. current opinion polls show that those who wish to keep their independence outnumber the euro-quislings and europhiles nearly two to one. seventy-five percent of icelanders wisely do not trust the eu. the only icelandic party in favour of membership has slumped from 30% to 18% in the polls. it is the same all over europe. while the political elite move to ever closer union and federal empire, the people want freedom and independence. such mismatches are the seedbed of revolution. congratulate yourselves on accession progress all you like, but the coming financial meltdown in the countries being crushed in your euro straightjacket will be costly to us all, but fatal to your utopia. iceland, and the nations now stuck in your raspberry reich, will be free at last.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. the motion for a resolution before us is balanced and covers all key aspects of the progress report. with 33 chapters discussed in the progress report, iceland moves forward quickly to meeting the criteria to join the eu. the reference in the motion to the report of the special investigation committee into the collapse of the icelandic banking system is important. the fact that justice will be served on the culprits of the crisis is welcome. perhaps the eu and its member states could copy iceland’s sensible approach. however, there are two issues i wish to raise this evening: icesave and mackerel. the referendum at the end of this week will hopefully bring an end to the saga. however, i was disappointed that the second referendum was necessary after the intense renegotiation and the approval of the althingi, the icelandic parliament. on mackerel, the unilateral increase of quota without discussion and the consequences for neighbouring fleets was short-sighted. the need to resolve issues surrounding fisheries is essential to the success of the accession negotiations. finally, i would like to wish the second jpc, led by pat the cope gallagher, to reykjavík on 26 and 27 april well.
mr president, i am glad to hear that a majority of the icelanders in recent opinion polls say that they have no intention of joining the eu because, frankly, why do we want them to join? what exactly are they going to bring to our european club? they have got a collapsed economy, their banks have defaulted, their volcano closed our airspace for nine days – i presume we would have to pick up the bill for that if it happens again – and now they are plundering our mackerel stocks. in 2005 iceland landed 367 tonnes of north-east atlantic mackerel. this year they intend to land 150 000 tonnes. what kind of good management – sustainable management of fisheries – do you call that? they always pride themselves on having a sustainable fishery and they laugh at the common fisheries policy that we employ. this is almost criminal. this is almost illegal fishing and there is no way we should invite them to join the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this year we celebrate 30 years since your country, greece, became a member of the eu. as a confirmed philhellene, i believe greece has contributed massively to our union. it has gained a great deal too, so why greece would continue to deny the same benefits to its neighbour, macedonia, simply on the base of its name, is quite beyond me and many from my country. it is time other member states took a much firmer line with greece on this matter. having received a massive package of debt refinancing from the eu to prevent its euro-based economy from collapse, greece is hardly now in a position to hold hostage the whole enlargement process with its neighbour. macedonia as a candidate has waited long and patiently for accession negotiations to start. it would be a disaster now if continued delays result in macedonia turning inwards and abandoning its eu and nato membership ambitions. this is a genuine risk given macedonia’s domestic political fragility and its imminent elections. we need to send a strong signal of support to the forces of reform and progress in macedonia. failure to do so would resonate negatively throughout the western balkans, a region where eu membership prospects are the glue that binds these fractious countries together.
mr president, with the aid of modern technology i am watching the situation in côte d’ivoire unfolding as i sit here. these pieces of equipment are playing their role in côte d’ivoire, just as they have done in north africa, with people texting for assistance and medical help. over the past six months, the patience of the friends of côte d’ivoire has been sorely tried: it has been like a car crash in slow motion as we have watched the country slide into the situation in which it now finds itself – and it is always the most vulnerable who suffer. we have been talking here this week about refugees coming from north africa to europe, but we have also heard reports of nearly a million fleeing to neighbouring countries which are almost as poor, or even poorer, than côte d’ivoire. friends of that country must be on stand-by to help, as soon as we can, to restore it to normality and health and give the people there the prospect of good fortune in the future.
madam president, i wonder if mr vajgl has considered the cost to the eu taxpayer of these extra-territorial initiatives proposed in the report and which he is also endorsing?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the middle east and north african countries of the southern neighbourhood clearly need the eu’s long-term political and – where appropriate – financial support. in countries such as egypt, tunisia and libya we should concentrate our efforts on consolidating nascent democratic awakenings into a lasting legacy of stable, secular and enlightened governance. in syria, we should be more supportive of democratic opposition to president al-assad who is clearly no friend of the west, as we have seen from his efforts with north korea to develop a nuclear weapon and his political support for iran and for terrorism. inevitably, the ongoing turbulence demands a refocusing of enp priorities towards the south. however, this should not happen at the expense of our partners in the eastern dimension. some of those countries have also embarked on a long-term process of democratic transition, openness and reform. it would be perverse to reward them for this progress by denying them the resources and support to maintain their pro-western trajectory, simply on the basis that the southern dimension has more acute need of the eu’s attentions now. on libya, i strongly support the no-fly zone and the pressing need for regime change. i support recognition of the transitional national council and the unfreezing of eu-frozen gaddafi assets and releasing the money to the benghazi pro-democracy forces to buy supplies and, yes, even to buy arms. i believe that un security council resolution 1970 only specifically bans the sale of arms to the jamahiriya and therefore not to the benghazi rebels, though unfortunately the eu legislation appears to transpose 1970 incorrectly, with a blanket arms embargo. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, has mr canfin considered that the use of the eib as a public policy instrument, which is what he and his party advocate, will be at the direct financial cost of eu taxpayers, and in particular british taxpayers? has he considered this at all?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, parliament has spent many hours in this chamber discussing how to make the european supervisory authorities responsible for our financial services into the most transparent and accountable of organisations. the result has been to establish esas, which are fully scrutinised by this parliament. however, in this new age of accountability after the financial crisis and in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, we need to establish comparable levels of oversight and scrutiny of existing eu institutions, including the eib. given how central the role of the eib has become in financing eu member states’ strategies and eu overseas activity, it is now time to improve the level of accountability of its activities to this parliament. the loan book and the general banking and lending activities of the eib need to be assessed in the same way as we would assess our commercial banks. they need to be subjected to rigorous stress testing and all financial activities need to remain on balance sheet. when leverage or risk is employed we should be sanctioning the risk limits, as ultimately any default means that it is the taxpayer who will pay again. it is time for this parliament to seek a closer role in scrutinising the activities of the eib, especially as the bank’s role increases in developing new financial instruments.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i rise before the house today to mention one or two things which might perhaps be of help. i spent 35 years as an investment banker, investment manager, investment adviser and economic strategist, and i never bought a dud bank in my life. i never bought a dud bank for my clients, but over the past few years i have had the politicians and bureaucrats put a gun to my head, as a taxpayer, and make me buy more dud banks than you could shake a stick at. these are not even british dud banks, they are foreign dud banks, and i hear today that the british taxpayer is being asked to fork out for portugal. if i want to invest overseas, i will buy an emerging markets fund. i do not want a form of nationalised mickey mouse bank investing my money or that of my constituents by force. i say ‘mickey mouse bank’, mr maystadt, because all i have heard from you so far is how you are going to invest money to change the weather. i have never heard so much nonsense in my life. i do not know where you get your advice from, but statistically the weather has not actually changed for about 15 or 16 years, so what are you going to shovel all this money into? i do not want to invest in your bank and neither do the british people. i would counsel you, if you want to keep your aaa status, to ignore the pleas of this house – full of eccentrics, greenies and bored housewives – in particular in relation to paragraph 48 of the report. solar panels in the land of the wildebeest, giraffe and bongo drum will lose you your aaa rating in no time at all.
mr president, i rise as a british representative who believes we should be in the european union and changing it. mr bloom, on behalf of the uk independence party, does not represent the british people. his party has no representatives in the house of commons and no hope of putting any there in the foreseeable future. (applause) i think that in this particular debate we are looking at pragmatic politics and seeing how to obtain value for money for european citizens in relation to scarce resources. i congratulate the president of the european investment bank on the work he has done over many years to build the credibility of that institution. my questions relate to the matter of project bonds. when the document arrives in june, will you be submitting a text separate from that of the commission, so that we can have your views when we are preparing the multiannual financial perspective, or will everything be put together? will these funds potentially be project bonds for purposes outside the union, or will they simply be the project bonds for transport and other things that the commissioner has mentioned? lastly, and perhaps most importantly, will we be able to consider making savings in the structural funds and the cohesion fund, given that you are providing supplementary finance for infrastructure, because that will be a key question when we are dealing with a potential freeze on the financial perspective up to 2020?
mr president, the eib is providing up to eur 1 billion for the construction of wind turbines and other renewable energy projects in the uk. while this fits neatly within the strategy to fight climate change, i am alarmed that the current criteria governing eib funding lack transparency and accountability when it comes to the examination and due diligence of these projects. eur 6 billion has been provided for wind farm developments across the eu, according to mr maystadt, but the eib simply accepts the applications for funding from the governments concerned without scrutiny. i do not think that is good enough. renewable energy companies in the uk claim that their turbines have a load factor of 30%. in fact, over the whole of last year their load factor was only 21%. they do not work when the weather is coldest and demand for electricity is at its peak. they are not economically viable and they will double or treble electricity prices for consumers while failing to cut co2 emissions. this is an unfolding financial scandal, and the eib should stop funding wind energy.
mr president, i have a statement rather than a question. the vote was not unanimous because i did not vote in favour.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr wojciechowski for the speed with which he has been able to bring this report to the house. he has worked extremely hard on this. i want to go back to the area of the correlation tables. the commissioner said that he hoped it would be good enough, but i have to say to the commissioner that ‘hope’ is not enough. this is a very serious disease that we need to get control of this summer. it is carried by small flies, by what we call midges, and has to be brought under control this summer. mr wojciechowski has done his bit and he cannot be blamed in any way for any delay. it would be very unfortunate if infighting in brussels or excessive bureaucracy were to result in a delay. we certainly need action, because the disease travels extremely fast and we have to be able to vaccinate outside affected areas. i have to remind the house that on many occasions, as mr wojciechowski and others have said, prevention is better than cure. on this occasion i think we have got to move, and i want the commission to give us an assurance that bureaucracy will not hold us back.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this is a disease in respect of which farmers should make their own decisions, based on their own particular circumstances. as a uk farmer, i will rely on veterinary recommendation and not the opinion of bureaucrats in other countries. i appreciate the support of the british taxpayer who funds my vaccines and i am frustrated that the eu needs to be involved at all. you gave us this disease. please do not make matters worse. we are now discussing this question despite assurances that the lisbon treaty did not constitute a fundamental change. if that is so, why do so many measures, large and small, like this one, have to be recast to conform to the treaty on the functioning of the european union? we do not know how the issue of correlation tables is going to be resolved, and this topic perfectly illustrates the confusion that so-called codecision can lead to. whilst the british government will spend what it takes to conform to your way of thinking, other member states may view things very differently.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur for this report. while i am generally in favour of the principle behind this report, i would like to add that this vaccine should only be used when the competent authority identifies significant risk to the livestock population. in northern ireland, both farmers and the department of agriculture and rural development have worked extremely hard to keep northern ireland a free area. it is important that the commission and the council recognise free area status within the eu and put safeguards in place for these areas. however, there still remains a significant risk within europe that this disease may spread and, as a result, i believe it is necessary that northern ireland has the ability to use the vaccines. it is imperative that the competent authority monitor movements and impose trade bans where necessary to stop the spread of blue tongue and that good practice is followed by all of the actors. it is important that all member states work constructively together to reduce the risk of the spread of this disease and protect the industry from a major outbreak. communication between member states and the commission is a vital part of monitoring and controlling disease outbreaks. i would encourage this.
mr president, this legislation will give farmers flexibility, choice and hope, i am glad to say. for too long, our vaccination strategy has been held back by the fact that we have not developed sophisticated enough products to allow vaccination of animals outside exclusion zones. being in an exclusion zone can be disastrous for a farmer’s livelihood. it can also be disastrous not to protect your animals from disease, especially one as damaging and virulent as bluetongue. the development of new vaccines and the rules changes which i hope the parliament will agree today will allow the uk to move to bluetongue-free status. it will allow freer movement of animals and save money in rural areas. however, it is vitally important that these rules are brought into force as soon as possible. farmers in the west country need to be able to vaccinate before the end of may to ensure that animals are fully protected. all of us here understand the background to the interinstitutional battle raging over correlation tables, but i can tell you that the farmers i represent do not understand it and they rely on us, their elected representatives, to sort it out for them. this is an urgent issue and common sense must prevail. let us get on with this now, agree a fast track for urgent issues of this kind and get on and get our livestock vaccinated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu tomato imports from morocco (petition 1565/2009 by josé maria pozancos (spanish)), by erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000040/2011 – b7-0211/2011).
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 and resumed at 12.00)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
madam president, under rule 110 of our rules of procedure, the commission may at any time request permission to make a statement on an urgent issue. overnight, we have had the economically calamitous, but unsurprising, news that another country has bitten the dust and that portugal is going to have to be bailed out. can i ask whether you have received any request from the commission to make a statement on portugal today? if not, would the commissioner say why not? does he think that the bailing-out of portugal is not important enough for this parliament to discuss, or is he just burying his head in the sand?
mr farage, you have made your point and i am sure that commissioner šefčovič has heard. it is the prerogative of each institution to react. you have been heard and we will see what happens.
madam president, i ask: is the answer yes or no? have you received a request from the commission to make an urgent statement on the portuguese situation or not?
mr farage, it is the commisison’s prerogative and you have had the chance to be heard. we will now proceed with our votes.
i believe the rapportuer would also like the floor.
madam president, i would like to include, after ‘climate change risk assessment’, the words ‘which does not harm trade’.
mr preda, i am sorry but i think you have read the wrong oral amendment. you have two, could you try the other one. that would be helpful.
madam president, i urge all members not to adopt the amendment, and i urge iceland to protect its fish stocks ... (interruption by the president) (heckling)
we indeed have a new rapporteur who has taken over the report. mr vigenin, if you care to take the floor i will allow you to do so briefly.
let us wait until we get to the final vote and we will see if the house wishes to do that.
madam president, it says that roll calls may be taken with 24 hours notice. if there is another rule which supersedes this and says a roll call can be decided by parliament, would you please tell us what the number is. otherwise we could all request roll calls when we felt like it.
i have the power as your presiding vice-president today to decide whether we take a roll-call vote or not. it is rule 20 that gives me the power, but i am going to ask the house nevertheless. let us have a show of hands. do you wish to vote by roll-call? it is clear that the house wishes to vote by roll-call in accordance with my wish also, so i open the vote on the final motion for a resolution. (parliament agreed to the request for a roll-call vote)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report. however, whilst i believe in the principle of enabling the competent authority, i.e. the member state, to vaccinate against bluetongue, i am opposed to the principle of including in legislation the requirement to provide tables on transposition into national law.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i support the substance of the commission proposal. it would relax some restrictions, which have become unnecessary in light of the recent developments in vaccine production. the new rules would help member states to make more effective use of vaccination to control bluetongue and reduce the burden on the agricultural sector posed by this disease.
in writing. − the eplp wholeheartedly supports the report aimed at amending directive 2000/75/ec with a view to allowing the use of inactivated vaccines against bluetongue outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions. the new law ushers in the use of a new bluetongue vaccine for the first time, which takes advantage of developments in science since the previous rules came into force. the new vaccine will be an ‘inactivated’ jab and will allay farmers’ fears over the traditional ‘live’ vaccines. the eplp is delighted that the eu has brought in this new law, which has real benefits for farmers in the uk. it reassures farmers who are concerned by the deadly disease and the existing vaccination as the bluetongue season approaches with the warmer weather. farmers will now have a new and safer vaccine available and will be given greater powers over their own vaccination programmes. until now, farmers would have lost the right to vaccinate their animals if the uk was declared entirely free from bluetongue. but under the new law farmers are given the power to keep vaccinating for their own peace of mind, whilst profiting from easier exports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will assist in the fight against bluetongue disease within the eu.
in writing. − i voted to change the rules on vaccination against bluetongue disease in order to allow the use of more effective vaccines and to reduce red tape for farmers. the new law will have real benefits to farmers across europe and especially in wales. the uk will be granted bluetongue-free status, but farmers will still be allowed to vaccinate their animals against the deadly disease. giving farmers greater powers to make their own decisions concerning vaccinations is a welcome boost to the farming industry in wales and will ensure that livestock can be exported without the current restrictions.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because the amendments adopted left us with a text which paid insufficient attention to nuclear safety issues.
in writing. − although this is a sensitive period of time just after the enormous problems with nuclear safety in japan, nuclear energy remains a major contributor to energy supply cross the eu and globally. the views expressed by those in the house seeking to force early closure and abandonment of the policy in this matter made voting for elements of this report very difficult for pragmatic reasons rather than a particularly pro- or anti-nuclear approach. i could not support ‘aggressive’ amendments which could have damaged the energy supply policy of a ‘mixed’ approach leading to reduced co2 emissions and the eventual growth in renewables.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution in the final vote as i believe we need to debate this issue in the context of the overall eu energy strategy not in the context of the japanese nuclear tragedy.
in writing. − i feel that this resolution was knee-jerk reaction to the tragic situation in japan, and did not allow enough time for debate of the issues surrounding the safety of nuclear power plants in the eu. nuclear power is a vital source of energy across europe, with some member states getting as much as 75% of their electricity from nuclear power, and a review of the safety of nuclear power plants should be a priority, including stress tests on existing plants. this should not however lead to closures of existing power plants where there are no safety concerns or prevent the opening of new nuclear installations to replace out-of-date plants. we need a grown-up debate on these issues to ensure that there is a balanced mix of renewable and other low-carbon sources of energy to ensure that the lights stay on across europe.
in writing. − after the defeat of the joint motion for a resolution i voted in favour of this text which, while not perfect, struck a good balance between nuclear safety and a pragmatic approach to the issue.
in writing. − i voted for this verts/ale group resolution because all the other resolutions on the subject had fallen. i backed it to show support for the safety recommendations but was uncomfortable with the more extreme anti-nuclear sentiments it espoused.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution, which i found almost naively pro-nuclear.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i believe the eu must reassess its bilateral relations with syria, bahrain and yemen in the light of their violent repression of demonstrators, and talks on a future association agreement with syria must be suspended. i am also concerned about the presence of international troops in bahrain and call for an investigation into the deaths of 54 protestors in yemen.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i believe that ldc-iv should focus on policy coherence for development as an important factor for policy shift, at national and international level and call, therefore, for policy-making in all areas – such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance – to support the development needs of ldcs in order to fight poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods. i urge the eu to honour its commitments in terms of market access and debt alleviation and to reaffirm the importance of reaching the oda target of 0.15% to 0.20% of gni for the ldcs, mobilising, for this purpose, domestic resources and, as a complementary measure, innovative financing mechanisms.
in writing. − i voted against this report. in the rush to enlargement i fear that this parliament and the eu institutions are ignoring issues of strategic importance to member states. it is very regrettable that, yet again, iceland and the faroe islands have massively inflated their proposed catches of mackerel in 2011, endangering the stock and endangering the viability of our pelagic fishing industry. this outrageous behaviour exposes the lie that iceland is at the forefront of sustainable fisheries management. last summer, in response to iceland’s intransigent stance on this matter, we were told that the commission was considering suspending negotiations about iceland’s accession to the eu. yet little seems to have happened on this front. iceland’s membership of the ‘eu club’ cannot and must not be taken forward while iceland blatantly ignores the rules of that club. as one newspaper headline put it, are we really going to contemplate iceland turning from collapsing its banks to making our most valuable fishery disappear?
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which among other things ‘welcomes the agreement achieved between the representatives of the governments of iceland, the netherlands and the uk on the icesave issue, notably on guaranteeing the repayment of costs incurred in payment of minimum guarantees to depositors in branches of landsbanki islands hf. in the uk and the netherlands; welcomes the approval by a three-quarters majority of the agreement by the icelandic parliament on 17 february 2011;’ and ‘takes note of the decision of the president of iceland to refer the bill to a referendum and hopes for an end to the infringement procedure which started on 26 may 2010, brought by the efta surveillance authority against the government of iceland’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support iceland’s accession to the eu.
in writing. − i voted for the report on macedonia and welcome the continued efforts in the fight against corruption, manifested amongst other things by implementation of the second round of greco recommendations and the entry into force of the amendments to the criminal code. i encourage the authorities to continue implementing legislation to combat corruption and improving the independence, efficiency and resources of the judiciary. however, corruption remains prevalent and i call for further intensive efforts to eradicate it. i stress the urgency of effective and impartial enforcement of anti-corruption legislation, in particular on the financing of political parties and on conflicts of interest. i draw attention to the importance of ensuring that the court system functions free of political interference and welcome the efforts to increase the efficiency and transparency of the court system. i stress the need to build up an enforcement record for prosecutions and convictions against which progress can be measured and call for the unification of jurisprudence in order to ensure a predictable judicial system and public trust.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which urges all the political forces in côte d'ivoire to respect the will of the people expressed freely in the results of the presidential elections of 28 november 2010 that were announced by the cei and certified by the unsg special representative, and which recognised allassane dramane ouattara as president-elect of côte d'ivoire. the resolution asks all ivorian parties, in particular, to refrain from, prevent, and protect civilians from all forms of illegal coercion and abuses of human rights. the resolution also condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the attempts by ex-president gbagbo and his supporters to usurp the will of the ivorian people by fomenting violence and undermining the integrity of the electoral process; it stresses, in this respect, that results of democratic elections must be fully respected by all participants, including the defeated candidates, and underlines that failure to uphold these results would further put at risk both peace and stability in côte d'ivoire;
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and encourage the countries in the region to cooperate more closely with each other and to engage in an enhanced and prolonged dialogue, at all relevant levels, regarding areas such as freedom, security and justice, and in particular border management, migration and asylum, the fight against organised crime, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration, terrorism, money laundering and drugs trafficking, as well as police and judicial cooperation. the resolution recalls that good neighbourly relations are one of the most important preconditions for progress by enp countries towards eu membership.
in writing. − i voted against this motion. whilst it is essential that we try to encourage peace and democracy in the mediterranean it is absolutely clear that the strategy behind the european neighbourhood policy has so far failed. this policy costs taxpayers in the region of one and a half billion euro per year yet it has manifestly failed to deliver. we are currently facing a refugee crisis in the area and many regimes are turning on their own people. there is no doubt in my mind that we will soon be asked to approve further funding. without clear objectives and a programme of work this muddled policy will continue to fail the most vulnerable in the region. it is equally clear that the high representative has been ineffective in coordinating a response to the continuing security and humanitarian situation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recalls, in the light of current events in the southern mediterranean, particularly in tunisia and egypt, the enp’s failure to promote and safeguard human rights in third countries; urges the eu to draw lessons from those events and to revise its democracy and human rights support policy so as to create an implementation mechanism for the human rights clause included in all agreements with third countries; insists that the review of the enp must prioritise criteria relating to the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental freedoms, pluralism and freedom of the press and the fight against corruption; and calls for better coordination with the union’s other policies vis-à-vis those countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which has significant importance, given recent events in the eu’s southern neighbourhood. it is vital that the renewed policy supports democratisation and genuine reforms in the countries concerned.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which calls on the commission and the member state governments to strongly oppose the use of sexual assaults on, and intimidation and targeting of, women in libya and egypt and strongly condemns forced ‘virginity tests’ inflicted by the egyptian army on women protesters arrested in tahrir square and considers this practice as unacceptable, as it amounts to a form of torture; calls on egypt’s supreme military council to take immediate measures to stop this degrading treatment and to ensure that all security and army forces are clearly instructed that torture and other ill-treatment, including forced ‘virginity tests’, cannot be tolerated and will be fully investigated
in writing. − i voted for this report which recommends the following steps to strengthen the eib’s role in development: (a) the allocation of a greater number of dedicated and specialist staff with expertise in development issues and developing countries, as well as an increase in the local presence of staff in third countries, (b) increasing the share of the participation of local actors in the projects, (c) additional dedicated capital in the area of projects targeting development, (d) the allocation of more grants, (e) exploring the possibility of grouping the eib’s activities in third countries together under a single separate entity.
author. − mr president, once again we are debating china, and its government’s intolerance of dissent. as we know from our debate last month on the communist regime’s vandalism of the ancient city of kashgar, china vigorously tries to suppress cultural expression that does not conform to what its communist rulers deem appropriate. ai wei wei is an heir to china’s magnificent and ancient artistic traditions. he has also used his artistic talents to raise awareness of china’s dismal human rights record and dearth of political freedom. clearly, there is also a lack of freedom of expression in china. how else can the regime explain mr ai’s arrest on economic crimes and because he failed to complete the correct departure procedures for travelling to taiwan. this is plainly a smokescreen. in fact, the real reason was later elucidated by the state-run global times newspaper in a menacing editorial, which said that mr ai would pay a price for his resistance. we abhor the chinese government’s disgraceful treatment of this distinguished artist. we in this house call for his immediate release, and we express regret, once again, that china goes to such extreme lengths against those who dare speak out for their basic human rights.
author. − mr president, since the abolition of the nepalese monarchy and the election of a maoist-led government in kathmandu, nepal and china have inevitably grown much closer. it is no surprise, therefore, that the nepalese authorities prevented tibetan refugees living in nepal from voting for a prime minister and a parliament in exile. indeed, a similar election plan for last october was disrupted by nepalese police, undoubtedly in response to pressure from beijing. the fact that china has sought to interfere with an unofficial election taking place in another sovereign neighbouring state is an indication of its leaders’ contempt for democracy and their paranoia about tibet. it is obviously irrelevant to china that time and time again the dalai lama, tibet’s spiritual leader, has stressed that he seeks maximum autonomy for tibet, not independence. i hope that the high representative – who is not here today – will raise this episode with china and also with nepal, whose own nascent democracy is kept afloat partly by eu taxpayers’ money in the form of financial aid. i also wish to take this opportunity to salute the courage, fortitude and peaceful resistance of the tibetan people whose example is an inspiration to us all. nepal is indeed in a delicate position, geopolitically and geographically speaking, but it should seek inspiration from its democratic neighbour to the south, india, rather than from the repressive dictatorship which exists to its north, namely the prc. democracy will, i hope, one day be the norm throughout the whole of asia.
author. − mr president, since i have been in this parliament, some twelve years now, we have been trying to help the people of zimbabwe have better lives and greater optimism for the future. we have been clear on two points. firstly, that as long as robert mugabe remained in power, protected by a small self-serving element in zanu-pf and the security forces, pillaging the nation’s wealth for their own enrichment, there was little prospect of real change. secondly, that it was up to the people of zimbabwe, with the support of their african neighbours – and here i name south africa in particular of course – to bring about the necessary change. maybe, just maybe, there is at last some movement in the right direction. you know when mugabe is worried: he starts to panic. his police and militia start attacking anyone they see as opponents. the mdc is supposed to be in a power-sharing coalition, but in the past few days mdc ministers and mps, as well as human rights activists, have been beaten up and arrested. i suppose mugabe is increasingly nervous on two counts. he has seen what has happened to his friend and main bankroller, gadaffi; and just a week ago, on 31 march, the southern african development community, which includes south africa and all zimbabwe’s neighbours, at last voiced its grave concern at the resurgence of violence in zimbabwe. it has called for an end to that violence and for all elements of the global political agreement to be implemented. it has appointed a team to work out a roadmap to peaceful, free and fair elections in zimbabwe, and today that team is in harare. we are calling on european governments and the eu to intensify their engagement to use all their political influence in southern africa to help bring about rapid change for the better in zimbabwe and pave the way for properly monitored elections to be held in an atmosphere free from intimidation. until there is evidence of real change, the restrictive measures specifically targeting mugabe and his close allies must remain in place. in this regard there is no way that the eu should accredit mugabe’s unilaterally appointed envoy as ambassador. once the people of zimbabwe have their freedom restored, and genuine democracy and the rule of law established, i feel sure that the international community, including the eu, stands ready to come forward with generous assistance.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu supports the kimberley process, which aims to eliminate african conflict diamonds – or so-called blood diamonds – from the global market. however, recent developments in zimbabwe are worrying. the chairman of the kimberley process, mr mathieu yamba from the democratic republic of congo, has decided unilaterally, and without consultation, to allow the marketing of diamonds from zimbabwe’s marange mine. this mine, which was debated in the house last year, was seized by president robert mugabe and his cronies. hundreds of people were dispossessed of their homes and there are reliable reports of his security forces torturing, raping, and even killing, local residents. the sale of diamonds from the marange mine will help mugabe to further consolidate his tyrannical hold on zimbabwe and, indeed, enrich his zanu-pf thugs. i therefore urge the european union, as a party to the kimberley process, to raise this scandal at the highest level and insist on the restoration of consensus-based decision-making in the kimberley process. more generally, i have long been calling for a similar system, a certification, to cover other natural resources extracted in africa in order to prevent brutal governments or guerrilla groups from selling minerals to fund arms purchases. i am pleased to be working alongside the london-based, internationally renowned, human rights ngo global witness in this endeavour, in which the us administration is leading the way with the passing of the dodd-frank act.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today the call is for subsidies for fishermen because of the increase in fuel prices, tomorrow it will be farmers and, after that, lorry drivers and then airline operators, and then what about the owners of petrol stations? their profits have gone down because fuel prices have gone up. all of us are suffering because fuel prices have gone up. let us subsidise each other! this is all nonsense. it is american pork-barrel politics – special pleading for sectoral interests – brought into the european parliament. but what this debate does reveal is that, while everyone says we should have sustainable fishing policies, in practice, when it comes down to it, some people do not understand the word ‘sustainability’. they do not actually know what it means. the commission has made it quite clear that they understand that the fishing industry is not economically viable in some respects, but that is not the result of extra fuel prices. it is because of the unsustainable fishing practices of decades. if the market is constrained, if fishermen are not able to directly pass on the costs of fish to their consumers, then that is something that we should investigate. we should ensure that there is a direct link between the price of fish and the cost to consumers, but simply subsidising unsustainable practices is not the way to reduce the over-fishing which has caused the economic problems in the first place. the commissioner told parliament’s committee one month ago, when mr cadec put this question to her, that she was not mindful to support subsidies to compensate for the extra cost of fuel. she has repeated that today and i, for one, am delighted to hear her words.
mr president, the rise in fuel prices has created yet another problem for fishermen but it is only the latest problem, not the first. for the british fishing fleet, the biggest problem is membership of the eu. the uk provides the eu with 70% of its fishing but is allowed only 13% of its quotas. would it not be fair for the uk to receive a more proportionate share? in particular, the weight of cod landed in britain has fallen from 300 000 tonnes, before joining what was then the eec, to just 7000 tonnes today. british fishermen are facing further losses in the number of days at sea and are slowly being driven out of business. in the long term british fishermen want withdrawal from the eu; in the short term they demand fair treatment under the common fisheries policy. british fishermen, as representatives of the host country, must have an increase in the number of days at sea. we have heard of unsustainable fishing, but british waters are not being overfished by british fleets; the problem is that british waters have been thrown open to all.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all may i congratulate the rapporteur, mr hökmark, on skilfully piloting this report through the committee and achieving a very broad measure of consensus. i join with the other shadow rapporteurs in thanking him for his work. i very much support his desire to legislate so as to see europe meet the technological challenges in this sector and maintain a leading position in the world. this is cutting-edge technology, and it is very important. the key point is getting the right balance between the different interests involved – the incumbent broadcasters, the mobile operators, broadband provision and the official users, including the military and civil emergency services. i just want to sound the slight warning note that we must respect subsidiarity and national competences in this area and in this process. legislating in this field of policy is particularly difficult because the technologies involved change and advance so rapidly and so much, which means that we are always playing catch-up rather than legislating ahead of the game. nevertheless, i think we must act to clear the way for the new technology, for its exploitation and utilisation of spectrum, and i hope that this proposal and this report will do just that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this was the worst natural disaster ever to hit pakistan. we, i am proud to say, reacted fast. commissioner georgieva was on the scene, and, when i met with prime minister syed yousaf raza gillani, i was certainly able to discuss the eu’s response with him. one thing was absolutely clear. we needed to think outside the box. we needed to come up with a new solution to provide help. not only aid but trade was the answer, as a short-term measure to assist. i am pleased that the committee has approved the report, after much deliberation, and i know, through colleagues from right across the committee, the painstaking work that was done to try and come forward with something that was acceptable. but i am afraid some of the amendments to which the commission has already made reference take away from the spirit of our initial intentions and the initial way in which we reacted. at wto level, objections have been registered to our eu proposal. on the one hand, india says that this should not be a part of the eu-india fta. i agree. there should not be a link. that is the right approach. but at the same time it is asking for relaxation in trade directly from pakistan. there is a contradiction in its approach. i ask them to reconsider. i believe this house should reaffirm the commission position. we have the guarantee of annual impact assessments. i hear what colleagues say about their security concerns, but i stand here as somebody who narrowly survived the mumbai attacks and i say to those colleagues, this is not the time to turn your back on pakistan. the credibility of the eu is at stake. give the commission proposal your support.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i, like many others in this house, share the concern for, and the sympathy with, the people affected by the terrible floods in pakistan. i did so at the time and i do now. however, when i look at how the political will has been lacking, how the corporate interests have interfered and how the wto has procrastinated, what i see before us are recommendations that dilute the original proposals put forward at such short notice by the commission. mention has already been made of the short timescale for the trade preference relaxation, reduced from three years to one year: pakistan is prevented from maintaining or increasing duties or charges within that time. moreover, it is proposed to seek not only an annual report on a one-year programme but also quarterly reports on the application and implementation of the measures. this adds up to a huge bureaucracy being created, only to come to an end within one year. so i have a great deal of sympathy with the proposal, which is amendment 43, to send this back to the committee so that we can come up with something which will actually deliver the help we want to give to pakistan. finally, i think this really does point to the acute need to look at how the wto works and to transform it into a properly democratic body whose proceedings are transparent and whose members are accountable.
mr president, it is now eight months since the council proposed a sensible package of measures to help pakistan following the devastating flooding. i regret that, eight months later, we are still debating it and not implementing it. let us ask why we needed this package. there is a difference between aid and what is contained in this trade package. aid, of course, is very important to pakistan, but the idea of this trade package was to provide an incentive to entrepreneurs to start rebuilding factories and reinvesting in the textile and other industries that were literally swept away by the flooding. it is not true to say that the textile industry was not impacted by the flooding. it is true that the centre of much of the textile industry is elsewhere than the flooded area but a lot of the support packages for the textile industry were in flooded areas, as was a lot of the textile industry. this would have given an incentive to rebuild the textile industry by demonstrating there was a market for their products. unfortunately, our response has been very curmudgeonly. i can certainly support the idea of having a safeguard clause, but it would be better to do nothing at all than to do this for only one year. one year will not give the space for the investment that is necessary. i also regret that india has been less than supportive in the wto but i hope, as mr rinaldi mentioned, that the so-called cricket diplomacy is going to lead to a solution and that india will recognise that, both on humanitarian grounds and in the interests of security, it is important to help pakistan create jobs and investment in the future.
mr president, the images of last summer’s flooding in pakistan were indeed shocking, and the european union rightly sought to implement aid measures to assist the millions of pakistanis whose lives were devastated by this terrible disaster. humanitarian aid should be disbursed without political strings. however, emergency trade preferences are a politically controversial measure, both in the context of pakistan and the region. the presence of osama bin laden in pakistan has now once again exposed pakistan’s ambivalent approach towards fighting terrorism. so, speaking personally, i am concerned that these emergency trade preferences will appear to reward the pakistani government for its lack of action in this respect. i am also worried that secular, democratic bangladesh, also a country prone to flooding, will suffer as a consequence in terms of unfair competition, and it too is heavily dependent on textiles. this is a well-meaning measure, and of course i fully accept that, but it is one we need to consider extremely carefully, given all the things that i have outlined in my brief speech.
mr president, i speak as chair of the delegation which covers pakistan, and i must say that some real crocodile tears have been shed here tonight by people expressing views which are about 180 degrees away from those they normally express. when we have discussed this issue here in the past, we have been assured by the commission that the items in question have been carefully assessed to ensure they do not clash with eu exports. has this changed? we have been asked: why textiles from pakistan? the answer is: because textiles are a major export for them. you cannot expect them to conjure up something within a few months. we too had our doubts about the potential effect of this measure in the flood-stricken areas. we raised this matter when we were in pakistan, and we heard directly from members of parliament there that the measure would be of benefit to industry in their constituencies, so i really think that we should consider the message we send if we do not support this measure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as the commissioner has said, he agrees with this resolution, and it reiterates everything that the eu-india free trade agreement could encourage – investment, the elimination of tariffs, non-tariff barriers, etc. the conclusion of an ambitious fta is expected to boost bilateral trade by eur 160 billion by 2015, with key sectors seeing as much as a 30% increase in bilateral foreign direct investment. i am sure that the commissioner will agree that these are exactly the kind of figures that will help to stimulate the economy and create jobs, not only throughout the united kingdom but also in india. in its initial assessment of the potential fta between the eu and india, the centre for the analysis of regional integration at sussex concluded that any gains would depend on the extent to which the text identified and dealt with the key areas which the commissioner specifically mentioned, such as government procurement, services, investment in trade facilitation, etc. it states that if an agreement is largely confined to an issue of shallow integration, notably the reduction of tariffs, there is a strong possibility of trade diversion exceeding trade creation for both parties. the commissioner mentioned, quite rightly, sustainable development. i would say to you that we have to be very careful. the red lines are set, as it were, in tablets of stone, and i hope that we will not go too far towards conceding too much. i would also agree with mr caspary on time limits. i think he put a very good point forward there. at this point i should also mention the impact of the wto doha development round on an eu-india fta. current signals from geneva have not been positive, and the commissioner admitted not so long ago that the negotiations were in dire straits. now is perhaps the time, he said, for plan b – something, i hasten to add, that the committee on international trade has been looking for for a long time. what effect will this have on the eu-india fta?
mr president, i was a member of the ep delegation that went to india last month. a small group of us went, and it was exceedingly interesting and very valuable to go. i want to talk, in particular, about paragraph 29 of the motion on which we will vote on wednesday. it says that parliament ‘welcomes all efforts by the indian government to eradicate child labour’. i suppose the person who drafted this is attacking goods that might be manufactured using child labour and brought into europe, but the motion does not say that. what it does is single out one of the unfortunate aspects of indian life which still exists. last year our delegation visited a project in southern india, which is financed by eu money, to eliminate child labour. from what we saw, the problem was that children were actually working in the fields – not manufacturing anything – to pay off debts that their parents had incurred. they were sentenced to do this for life and to miss out on schooling. the phrase used in the motion for a resolution is potentially offensive to indians. of course they want to eliminate child labour. we should either get rid of paragraph 29 or change it to say that we are concerned about goods that might be made using child labour. for me, there is a whiff of superiority here, with europe saying: ‘we have got rid of child labour, but you indians are still using it.’ that is not the relationship we should have with a very important trading partner.
madam president, as the original parliamentary rapporteur for this matter when we opened negotiations back in 2007, i always said at the time that we should try to reach an ambitious free trade agreement that is really comprehensive and far-reaching in what we can achieve, and i am quite pleased to see that we have followed an agenda which seeks to do this. it is quite clear to me when i look at what the federation of indian chambers of commerce is now saying that we are likely to increase bilateral trade from eur 69 billion in 2009 to eur 160 billion in 2015. i am encouraged to see also india making real headway in trying to deal with a variety of issues including particularly non-tariff barriers. it is a great encouragement to see how the current indian government is now facing up to issues of corruption, even to the extent of detaining the commonwealth games chief, and addressing those non-tariff barriers. can i also welcome, commissioner, this joint declaration made by you and the indian trade minister anand sharma on 13 december 2010 stating unequivocally that nothing in the agreement would prevent the poorest from accessing life-saving medicines. that will i hope give confidence to colleagues in this house as to our approach in these negotiations. there remains one other matter that was always regarded as a red-line issue and that is public procurement. on all the enquiries that i have made, commissioner, i keep being informed that some detailed negotiations and plans are in place but as yet we do not have those details. i wonder if you could provide us with those today? may i finally be bold enough to ask you whether we can conclude this fta before the summer is out.
we now move to the catch-the-eye part of the debate. i will not be able to give the floor to everybody who has asked, and i would ask those of you who get the floor to keep to your one minute.
madam president, i think we all welcome india’s growth over the last decade or so, and especially since dumping some of the failed marxist and socialist policies of yesteryear. this has enabled it to throw off the shackles and to grow in an admirable way. i would also like to remind our colleagues from all across the political spectrum that this is a trade agreement and, as such, we should be focusing on the trade aspects. that is not to say that the other aspects are unimportant, but if we can focus on trade so as to help bring about and create wealth in india, and help entrepreneurs in india to create wealth and jobs in their own villages and towns, that will be to the benefit of all. it concerns me when we place too much emphasis on our standards from day one in an almost imperialist way, as my colleague bill newton-dunn said earlier. i think it is important that we focus on improving trade agreements to create wealth in these countries, including india, and help them out of poverty. that is the best way we can help.
mr obermayr, you were asking for the floor earlier. i said at the beginning of the catch-the-eye part of the debate that i could not take everybody and i am afraid you were in that category. ok, but we do not have much time.
i have made it clear since i took over the chair that i expect people to keep to their speaking time for the rest of this evening or else we are going to have trouble because we will run over midnight and i do not wish to do that. i have received four motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu-japan trade relations by daniel caspary and jarosław leszek wałęsa, on behalf of the ppe group, syed kamall, robert sturdy and jan zahradil, on behalf of the ecr group, niccolò rinaldi, metin kazak and marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the alde group, and emilio menéndez del valle, david martin and vital moreira, on behalf of the s&d group (o-000088/2011/rév.1 – b7-0220/2011).
author. − madam president, i think – i hope – that most of us in this house would agree that our preference is for multilateral negotiations and a successful outcome for the doha development round at the wto. but, given the difficulties that we all know have been encountered there, i think the commission deserves support in negotiating some of these bilateral agreements. for this reason i think we should actually be pressing ahead with an eu-japan free trade agreement. i recognise that there are concerns over the natural disasters that have befallen japan, but i have spoken to many japanese colleagues, friends and others who believe that, if we tread sensitively, an eu-japan agreement would send a signal that japan is back on its way and is on the road to recovery. if you look at the figures, in 2009 japan and the eu together represented more than a quarter of global gdp and more than 20% of world trade, and had a combined volume of foreign direct investment of about eur 200 billion. given that the eu countries and japan face common challenges, i think it is important that we look at some of these issues and address them through trade agreements. despite low tariffs, i think it is quite clear that bilateral trade volumes between the eu and japan lag behind the bulk of the eu’s trade partnerships with its other main trading partners. i think this is mostly due to the non-tariff barriers. it has been estimated that the cost of some of these barriers is actually higher than the existing tariff levels, and that most of the gains will come from removing these barriers. for companies within eu countries, there would be gains if we could tackle barriers to public procurement, to the medical devices market – where there is insufficient recognition of international standards, to services – including financial services and postal services, and access for smes. for the japanese, there would be gains in the automotive and ict sectors. but let us not forget that removing or reducing barriers to ict products from japan would be of benefit to the eu as well. i think that, overall, there is a feeling on both sides that an eu-japan fta has the potential to become a true win-win for both sides.
author. − madam president, an eu-japan free trade agreement clearly has the potential to create significant numbers of european jobs and to benefit european companies, and the reason for that is that eu penetration of the japanese market is currently extremely modest by comparison with eu exports elsewhere. in fact, according to the oecd, our market penetration in japan is amongst the lowest, and the reason for this has been indicated by my colleagues. the problem is not high tariff barriers – the tariff barriers are relatively low – but rather non-tariff barriers, including regulatory complications, issues in relation to mutual recognition, poor access to public contracts, and so on. the million dollar question for both the commission and this parliament is whether to insist that japan continues to make progress in tackling these non-tariff barriers before we open negotiations, or to open negotiations in the hope that, by doing so, we will encourage japan to reduce its non-tariff barriers. there is no easy answer to that question. however, i think the omens are good that japan does want to tackle non-tariff barriers. the japanese prime minister has called for an ‘open japan’ policy, and that is partly because he recognises that japanese industry is stultifying in its present environment. it is also, of course, partly because of the anticipated impact of the south korean free trade agreement on japanese exports, but i think that, in addition, it reflects recognition of japan’s limited experience with opening up. european companies have had improved access to telecommunications, car manufacturing, retail and the insurance sector in japan, and that has not damaged the japanese economy but has, in fact, encouraged innovation and development in japan. so i think the omens are good. on balance, my group takes the view that we still need japan to show a little more willingness before we announce the opening of free trade negotiations. we are not against an fta but we think that japan needs to do a little bit more to prove that the japanese prime minister can deliver on his words.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is quite desirable to review the trading arrangements that we have with other countries and it is quite understandable that japan sees the fta as particularly attractive in relation to the recent korea fta. there is a lot that we can support in the epp-alde-ecr resolution but i think that they are making a mistake to ‘strongly support’ an fta. that is a direct quote from paragraph 2. i think that is a premature support when we do not have impact assessments on the environmental and social effects of an fta. they are predicting the answer before identifying the effects of implementing the solution. many people have commented about the non-tariff barriers and the work that has yet to be done by the high-level group. i think that needs a positive step forward. when we bear in mind the importance of japan as a trading partner – with bilateral trade with the eu standing at eur 120 billion a year, and with the eu being the number three trading partner for japan and the number two investor in japan – i think we recognise that any bilateral agreement runs the risk of undermining multilateral agreements with the rest of the world and in particular with the developing countries. so i think that strong unconditional support for an fta needs to be revised. finally, i would like to say that, whilst we have every sympathy with japan, future trade policies simply cannot be based on who has had the most recent natural disaster.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, most people know – but many do not – that, shortly after a country becomes a member of the eu, all its trade agreements are negotiated by the commission and, specifically, the eu trade commissioner. under this arrangement the interests of all 27 member states need to be satisfied, which of course means in practice that they will not be. in consequence, an eu-negotiated trade agreement is likely to be less beneficial for an individual member state – and, i have to say, the uk in particular – than if the member state had been able to negotiate for itself. now the rationale for all this is that the eu is a large trading bloc and because of this clout the eu is able to negotiate a trade treaty that would not be open to a member state to negotiate on its own. but what do we find here? the negotiations for the eu trade treaty with japan have not even properly started, as the commissioner said. meanwhile the comparatively small, but dynamic, economy of switzerland already has a trade treaty with japan, and has had since 2009. once again, here is further proof that the uk and the other contributing member states would be much better off outside the bureaucratic contraption that is the european union.
i have received four motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by carl schlyter, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries (com(2010)0344 – c7-0172/2010 – 2010/0197(cod)) (a7-0148/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the lisbon treaty is normally regarded as having been constitutional in its scope; but what we have here is an example of how the lisbon treaty will impact, and impact adversely, on the commerce of member states. i know we are discussing transitional arrangements but what matters is that the lisbon treaty has removed from member states the right to negotiate bilateral investment treaties. some time in the future, and it is still not clear when, bilateral investment treaties will fall under the commission. because of lisbon, investment treaties can become an instrument for the commission’s political objectives – and not just the commission’s: we can be absolutely sure that the greens will try to advance their political programme, and we have seen that in the trade treaties time after time. attempts will be made to tack on to every investment treaty the full green agenda. now the greens are talented politicians – and i say this in admiration. they will often succeed, and in consequence investment and hence commerce in all member states will be hamstrung and hobbled. by contrast, countries outside the eu will not be subject to the greens’ pantomime of the ents, if you remember those characters in the lord of the rings. it is all very, very depressing.
madam president, out of some 2500 bilateral investment treaties in the world, 1500 concern eu member states. outside trade and investment are essential for economic recovery. i doubt whether many external markets trust trade packages with the eu in the light of the failing euro and the commission’s botched attempts to save three of its member states’ economies. what sort of effect will eu exclusive competency on bilateral investment have on member states? the uk has a trade deficit with the eu and relies on negotiations with third countries, many of which have been in place for years and relate to our commonwealth of nations. i am appalled that the eu is seeking to implement a device to proffer national packages at union level by majority voting, undermining the ability of individual member states to gain or maintain advantages that may substantially support domestic economies. i would like to ask the commission whether it actually recognises pacta sunt servanda in international law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
madam president, last week i met a man in my local church who was arranging his son’s memorial service. his 37-year old son had died the previous year of cancer. no parent should have to go through the pain of losing a child. as a mother i can think of nothing worse. but we have over 2000 parents, brothers, mothers and sisters in cyprus who are suffering every day as they wonder about the fate of their loved one. in 1963-64 civil unrest, and the subsequent turkish invasion and occupation of cyprus in 1974, resulted in approximately 2000 turkish as well as greek cypriots going missing. their fate is unknown, and in 1981 the committee on missing persons was set up and funded primarily by the eu. the work they have done in this area has brought peace to many families. there is much more work for them to do, with over one and a half thousand people still missing. i urge this house to support the work of the cmp, and to support written declaration 10 which is humanitarian in its objectives and seeks to bring peace and remembrance and reconciliation to these families.
madam president, one of my constituents in london has informed me of serious allegations against a mr vladimir perisic, also known as dr vladmir de rothschild, who claims to be a medical doctor and a specialist surgeon. it is alleged that mr perisic is not medically qualified, is not registered with the general medical council, and that he uses his spurious medical credentials to defraud vulnerable people. he allegedly claims to have met david cameron and persuaded the department of health to consider his proposal for an nhs voucher scheme. as a result of this an article featuring him recently appeared, in good faith, in a national sunday newspaper. this could give him further spurious legitimacy to dupe those in need of serious medical care. he is potentially a dangerous risk to the public. mr perisic should be investigated by the relevant uk authorities and the appropriate action taken if the allegations are found to be true. the national press might also decide to play a useful role in investigating this matter.
madam president, for 12 years i have been asking the commission and the council a question which has remained unanswered, as they claim it is hypothetical. on thursday, the people of scotland voted in the scottish parliamentary elections and the scottish national party won an overall majority of seats. the prospect of a referendum on scottish independence is now not a matter of ‘if’, but rather of ‘when’. under these new circumstances, i therefore ask the commission and the council, once again, whether, if part of an existing eu member state should choose to separate, the new state would remain a member of the eu, or whether it would have to reapply for membership. the people of scotland deserve a clear answer to a clear question.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by kriton arsenis, on behalf of committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission green paper on forest protection and information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change (2010/2106(ini)) (a7-0113/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i believe it is madness for this european parliament to approve the 2009 eu budget when financial irregularities or possible fraud affect between 2% and more than 5% of the total. these are not figures made up by me to suit party-political propaganda, but estimates from the european court of auditors. the level of irregularities for 2009 is abnormally high and equates to half of the uk’s contribution for the eu for this year, roughly eur 6.3 billion. this situation would simply not be tolerated in any company or organisation: heads would roll. this house is set to approve discharge for 27 eu agencies – expensive and needless quangos – while the european court of auditors has launched a full-scale investigation into their accounts for 2009. this should ring alarm bells ahead of the vote. i repeat, in the strongest possible terms, that it is nothing short of madness to sign off eur 523 million of – let us remember – taxpayers’ money, while the official auditing arm of the eu is investigating possible fraud and financial mismanagement at these agencies. medicines agency and cepol postponement is piecemeal. year after year we hear the european commission blame the member states for the irregularities, yet it does absolutely nothing about it when it has the power to block funding. instead it is proposing to move from a zero tolerance strategy to one of tolerable risk when it comes to eu expenditure fraud. to make matters worse, the commission and parliament are demanding increases in the budget for the coming years. most of these increases coincide with the areas with the highest level of irregularities. it will be an absolute disgrace, and an affront to taxpayers, if this house grants discharge for the 2009 accounts. the only conclusion to be drawn from a vote in favour of discharge is that this house and its members openly endorse financial mismanagement or worse. i call on the british prime minister to reduce the uk’s contribution to the eu in line with the amount of the irregularities if the european parliament fails to act in the interests of the british taxpayer.
mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs: they have done an important job for us. in my contribution i would like to comment on a few reports, and firstly on the discharge for the committee of the regions. the cor is, of course, the voice of regions but it also delivers many eu programmes. it would therefore be wrong to suggest, as some have done, that it should fund itself. on the commission’s discharge, i support the granting of a discharge. although more needs to be done, as outlined in the report, i believe that reducing the error rate for regional policy from 11% to 5% is real progress. structural funds are extremely important for places like wales – where i come from – where they are implemented very well. we therefore need to ensure that structural funds are not discredited or undermined. on the council discharge, i would support postponement. we are often lectured by certain council members on the need for transparency, so they themselves should be open to providing information on their expenditure. unfortunately, some seem reluctant to do so. finally, i would like to say a few words on parliament’s discharge. it is always controversial to consider one’s own spending, and our budget certainly receives a lot of attention, which is perhaps understandable in times of economic and financial difficulties. therefore i am pleased with many of the suggestions made in the report, including on issues concerning buildings policy and prizes – which need to be reviewed and made more transparent – as well as allowances and the important issue of the need for a savings strategy for parliament’s budget. it could be argued that many of these points concern future budgets rather than the 2009 budget, but i believe that, when we consider any budget and any discharge, we should also look to the future to ensure that we learn lessons from the past.
mr president, for the 16th year the court of auditors has only given a qualified statement of assurance, which means for the 16th year public confidence in the integrity of the management of our financial affairs has been undermined. i recognise that the commission has made efforts to make improvements, but in voting to grant discharge i can only vote outcomes, not intent. the auditors report that far too many headings are materially affected by error and, since 80% of our spending is under shared management with the member states, it is perfectly clear that the member states must accept greater responsibility. it is clear too that the commission must give greater urgency to achieving that outcome. so until i see evidence of significant improvement, i shall continue to vote against discharge of the budget.
rapporteur. − madam president, briefly stated, it was not possible to have a debate and presentation of the report and i would like to thank my colleagues in the other political groups who have supported my recommendation. i want to inform the commission and the council that this is the start of parliament’s campaign to win new rights for our citizens who are the victims of fraud. pan-european orders for the disclosure and freezing of fraudsters’ assets are critical, because currently the fraudsters walk away while the victims lose out and face expensive legal bills. with this vote, therefore, we are asking the commission to urgently come forward with legislative proposals to redress this injustice and to give power back to our citizens, the victims of crime.
madam president, a billion here, a billion there, and pretty soon we are talking real money. the amounts that have been dedicated by the european union to these bailouts dwarf the domestic spending of our national governments. the united kingdom alone has so far made available gbp 7 billion in ireland and it is now about to be asked for another gbp 4.2 billion in portugal. gbp 7 billion is more than the value of all the domestic cuts we have made in social security put together – and all for a policy which is now visibly failing. when the greek bailout was originally agreed we were told that it would be enough to deter the speculators, that greece would now be borrowing competitively in the market and that no more would be needed. yet, we now see greece openly negotiating for a default and for further loans. it is clear that we are not going to see the money again. it is also clear that we are breaking the law. these bailouts are not merely unauthorised under the treaties, they are expressly prohibited and, worst of all, they are damaging to the recipient countries. there is a racket – a ponzi scheme – whereby governments and banks connive to give money to european bankers and bondholders, while expecting the repayment to come from ordinary european taxpayers. ireland and greece are now having to borrow more money to send to portugal, while at the same time ireland and portugal are having to borrow more money to send to greece. let me finish by quoting my countryman rudyard kipling. ‘you will find it better policy to say:--‘we never pay any-one dane-geld, no matter how trifling the cost;for the end of that game is oppression and shame, and the nation that plays it is lost!’
madam president, we have voted today on the 2009 accounts at a time when governments across europe are having to take austerity measures: expenditure is being cut and taxes are being increased. yet, in the european union, every year the commission demands more money, and every year the court of auditors replies that the money is not being well spent. the court of auditors says that the 2009 accounts, on which we have just voted, are materially affected by error and that is why i am very pleased that the british conservatives and our good friends in the european conservatives have voted against discharge of these accounts. the eu should take much better care of taxpayers’ money.
madam president, when my constituents ask me about the eu budget, one of the things they do not understand, particularly at the difficult time that we are going through, is why we are spending all this money. at a time when our government is having to make cuts and reduce the level of public spending, and governments across the eu are having to do exactly the same thing, why is it, first of all, that the eu is asking for more money for its budgets and its financial perspective, and secondly that it cannot spend the money it has efficiently? as my colleague mr fox said earlier, the eu accounts for 2009 were riddled with error. the accounts have not been signed off for 15 years, and all the time our constituents have been asking us why we are not spending their money better. it is time we put our house in order. whatever you feel about the european union, it is surely right that we should spend taxpayers’ money wisely.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the court of justice, while noting the mixed results in terms of speeding up procedures. i welcome the increase in the number of cases completed by the court of justice (377 judgments and 165 orders compared to 333 and 161 respectively in 2008), take note of the number of preliminary ruling cases being the highest ever (302) and welcome the decrease in the number of cases pending at the end of 2009 (741 cases compared to 768 cases at the end of 2008). however, i note with concern that the general court in 2009 showed a decrease in the number of cases decided and an increase in the duration of the proceedings and that consequently, although the number of new cases in 2009 was lower (568 new cases compared to 629 in 2008), the backlog of pending cases continued to increase (from 1178 in 2008 to 1191 in 2009). i also welcome the fact that the civil service tribunal closed more cases than ever before (155 cases), and that the average duration of a procedure was 15.1 months compared to 17 months in 2008.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the ombudsman and note, with satisfaction, that in 2009 the ombudsman was able to help with almost 77% of all complaints and dealt with 70% of inquiries in less than one year, and i welcome the fact that the average length of inquiry was reduced to 9 months (from 13 months in 2008).
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european data protection supervisor (edps) but i note the court of auditors findings that the edps had not put in place a system of ex-post verification, where appropriate, as required by the financial regulation, and that the standards of internal control adopted by the edps did not provide for exceptions to standard financial procedures to be duly recorded in a central register.
in writing. − i voted for this report but am concerned by the court of auditors’ findings that several agencies had deficiencies in procurement procedures. i call on the agencies to strengthen their internal controls to make sure that contracts and procurement procedures are correctly applied. parliament is not ready to accept the chronic inability to put in place a control system which avoids or detects in time persistent errors undermining the legality and regularity of the agency’s transactions. i urge, in this respect, the agencies to: - improve the transparency of estimates and responsibility of projects;- strengthen their procurement authorisation at the financing decision and work-programme level; - ensure that the disclosure of exceptions in their annual activity report is made in a comprehensive manner; - ensure adequate follow up of potential irregularities; - develop and report on ex-post controls.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the translation centre. however, i call on the centre to take more effective measures to remedy its constant rise in surplus; i note, in fact, that for several years the centre has had an accumulated budget surplus contrary to regulation (ec) no 2965/94, and that in 2009 the surplus amounted to eur 24 000 000, whereas it had been eur 26 700 000 in 2008, eur 16 900 000 in 2006, eur 10 500 000 in 2005 and eur 3 500 000 in 2004; i observe that this surplus is mainly linked to the lack of precision in the forecasts for translation requests received from its clients. i welcome, nevertheless, the centre’s initiative to refund eur 11 000 000 to its clients in 2009; and i stress that similarly, in 2007, the centre had already refunded eur 9 300 000 to its clients
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training. i congratulate the centre for introducing a performance measurement system (pms) in 2009 in respect of its 2009-2011 medium term priorities and its annual work programme, and for having set up a framework of performance indicators to monitor progress and measure output, outcome and impact; i consider, in particular, that the introduction of a pms helps the centre manage and evaluate its impact, efficiency, effectiveness and relevance; i believe, furthermore, that this system could include further improvements to the activity-based budget and closer monitoring of payment appropriations to avoid carryovers.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the community fisheries control agency. nevertheless, i urge the executive director of the agency to fully fulfil his obligation to include, in his report to the discharge authority summarising the internal audit service (ias) report, all recommendations made (including the ones which could be possibly refused by the agency) and all action taken on these recommendations; i call therefore on the executive director of the agency to provide information on the content of the ias’s four ‘very important’ recommendations and the action taken by the agency.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european aviation safety agency but urge the agency to implement an activity-based structure for the operational budget in order to establish a clear link between the work programme and the financial forecasts and improve performance monitoring and reporting; note that the agency prepares a multiannual plan every year, discussed with all stakeholders and approved by the management board, in which the budget per activity is presented; and acknowledge the view of the court of auditors that the structure of the agency’s operational budget (title iii) remained partially input-related and that the budget amendments were made without updating the work programme, even when they had a significant impact on the allocation of human and financial resources
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control and take the view that the centre’s powers must be strengthened so that the union has an independent capacity to assess the severity of the risk of infection should a pandemic occur, and so that coordination between the member states can be improved.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european chemicals agency but call on the agency to inform the discharge authority of the steps taken to improve its control system by strengthening its financial circuits, workflows, audits, action plans and risk assessments.
in writing. − i voted to give the european environment agency discharge on its budget. however, i call on the agency to improve, by the end of the year, the accuracy of the information provided by the operational departments on the estimation of accrued operational expenditure.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european food safety authority, but regret that, for the third successive year, the court of auditors pointed out that commitments for operational activities carried over from the previous year had to be cancelled (19 % of commitments for operational activities carried over from 2008, 37 % of commitments for operational activities carried over from 2007 and 26 % of commitments for operational activities carried over from 2006). parliament urges the authority to change this situation and to notify the court of auditors of the measures taken.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addicition and, in doing so, welcome the fact that the centre has further enhanced the annual forecast of its cash needs; notes that this forecast is constantly updated and submitted as a supporting document to the relevant commission services to justify the centre’s quarterly request for payment of the next instalment of its annual subsidy allocated by the union.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the european maritime safety agency for its 2009 budget but call on the agency to further reduce the number of posteriori commitments (i.e. legal commitments that were entered into before the corresponding budgetary commitments were made); reminds the agency that, since 2006, the court of auditors has reported infringements of article 62(1) of the financial regulation; welcomes, nevertheless, the agency’s efforts to improve this situation by providing ad hoc training to avoid posteriori commitments.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european network and information security agency and, in doing so, i note with disappointment that there has been no progress since the previous year concerning the refund of eur 45 000 which is the amount of vat paid in advance by the agency to the tax authorities of the host member state; urges, therefore, the agency to inform the discharge authority when this refund is made by the host member state.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european railway agency for its 2009 budget. however, i regret the shortcomings in the management of the fixed assets’ inventory identified by the court of auditors but note the agency’s assurance that this will be remedied in the 2010 accounts; considers that uncertainty about the location of fixed assets is another illustration of the problems and additional costs arising from using two sites.
in writing. − i voted to give the european training foundation discharge for its 2009 budget and welcome the foundation’s initiative of providing the discharge authority with the ias annual internal audit report concerning the foundation. parliament considers this to be a sign of transparency and a best practice to be followed by all other agencies.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work. i welcome the agency’s initiative of providing the discharge authority with the internal audit service (ias)'s annual internal audit report. i congratulate the agency on its considerable progress in this respect. parliament acknowledges that all ‘very important’ recommendations issued by the ias to the agency were adequately implemented and closed, except the recommendation on validation of accounting systems, which was downgraded to ‘important’ as a result of its partial implementation; it calls, accordingly, on the accounting officer of the agency to describe the methodology used in the validation of its accounting system; and it supports the idea of developing cooperation within the existing inter-agency accountants network in order to come up with common requirements and develop a common methodology for validation of the accounting systems in agencies.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the euratom supply agency. in doing so, i note that, in 2009, the agency did not receive any subsidy to cover its operations. the commission bore all expenses incurred by the agency for the implementation of the 2009 budget. this situation has persisted since the creation of the agency in 2008. in the absence of an autonomous budget, the agency is de facto integrated into the commission. to me, this raises the issue of the need to maintain the agency in its current form and organisation.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions but call on the foundation to make sure that appropriations are made available only when the corresponding assigned revenue has been received; notes, in fact, that the court of auditors reported that, contrary to its financial regulation (article 19), the foundation's budget did not provide for specific headings for various programmes financed from assigned revenue; notes, moreover, that under a programme financed by assigned revenue, the foundation committed eur 184 000, although the assigned revenue actually received was only eur 29 000. i regret that the court of auditors was compelled to comment on the budgetary and financial statement of the foundation, especially to the effect that the initial provisional accounts presented by the foundation contained serious shortcomings, pointing to significant weaknesses in the financial organisation of the foundation; welcomes the foundation's confirmation that it will ensure, through additional training and resources, that its implementation of year-end procedures and its adherence to the deadlines for the presentation of its accounts is correct
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to eurojust and congratulate the agency for establishing measures to estimate the market value of relevant products/services before commencing a procurement procedure. i consider this initiative an important practice to be followed by other agencies. i welcome, in addition, the agency’s annual procurement plan for 2009 which greatly helped eurojust’s units and services in the management of their tenders. i consider that these initiatives improve the authorising officer’s guidance and control.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to frontex, but observe that the court of auditors reported, for the second year running, that the agency paid out amounts on the basis of unilateral grant decisions signed by the agency, while the rules in force make no provision for this type of instrument. i note that the amount paid out was more than eur 28 000 000 in 2009, and was eur 17 000 000 in 2008. i welcome, nevertheless, the agency's initiative, made in response to the court's observation, of signing a framework partnership agreement with member state border authorities.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european gnss supervisory authority because the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the artemis joint undertaking but i believe that, in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks, the joint undertaking should consider establishing an audit committee reporting directly to the governing board.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking. i recognise that the joint undertaking is still in a start-up period. i am concerned, nevertheless, that the research activities pre-financed by the commission in 2008 on behalf of the joint undertaking were not fully implemented during 2009 and that, as a result of delays in the projects, only eur 8 700 000 or 65 % of the eur 13 600 000 pre-financing was used. i am particularly concerned that the adoption, structure and presentation of the approved budget of the joint undertaking for 2009 were not in line with regulation (ec) no 71/2008 setting up the clean sky joint undertaking, or with the financial rules of the joint undertaking. i therefore urge the joint undertaking to rapidly remedy this grave deficiency.
in writing. − i voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2009. i urge the joint undertaking to complete the implementation of its internal controls and financial information system as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. nevertheless, i am concerned that an integrated management system – allowing costs to be allocated to specific work packages and funding sources for operational costs to be identified – was not in place by december 2009.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the committee responsible considers that, in giving the interview in question, luigi de magistris was acting in the performance of his duties as member of the european parliament and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents. to seek to prevent members of parliament from expressing their opinions on matters of legitimate public interest and concern and from criticising their political opponents by bringing legal proceedings is unacceptable in a democratic society and in breach of article 8 of the protocol, which is intended to protect members’ freedom of expression in the performance of their duties in the interests of parliament as an institution of the european union.
in writing. − after considering the reasons for and against defending the member’s parliamentary immunity, i agree with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs that parliament should not defend the immunity of bruno gollnisch.
in writing. − i voted against the removal of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch because: 1. i believe in free speech and the words complained of were not incitements to violence and were not abusive or insulting. the comments were about the intolerance of islamic regimes towards people deemed to be heretics. 2. no debate was allowed before these most important votes (dealing with the fundamental rights of an mep) were taken. 3. the proposal to lift bruno gollnisch’s immunity (and the eventual decision to lift it) were inconsistent with the proposal to allow the german mep elmar brok to retain his immunity from prosecution for an (alleged) greed offence of tax evasion. it is clear that the prosecution is a vexatious one, by a private organisation, designed to deprive mr. gollnisch of his elected position and his good name.
in writing. − i voted to oppose the removal of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch because: 1. free speech is a core value of our society and the cornerstone of our democracy. it should not be curtailed by political opponents. the comments attributed to mr gollnisch were not incitements to violence and were not abusive or insulting. the comments were about the intolerance of islamist regimes towards unbelievers. 2. no debate was allowed before the votes on this issue, which affect the fundamental rights of an mep. 3. the proposal to lift bruno gollnisch’s immunity (and the politically motivated decision to lift it) were inconsistent with the proposal to allow the german mep elmar brok to retain his immunity from prosecution for an (alleged) greed offence of tax evasion. it is clear that the prosecution is a vexatious one, by a private organisation, designed to deprive mr gollnisch of his elected position and his good name. it is equally clear that, in the increasingly intolerant atmosphere of political correctness that is permeating the parliament, some meps are more equal than others.
in writing. − i support the waiver of bruno gollnisch’s immunity so that he can stand trial for the offence of incitement to racial hatred.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement on the protection and sustainable development of prespa park. the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance. it is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic fauna and flora species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement, the objective of which is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
in writing. − i welcome this report which, if followed through by the commission, should help victims of fraud. the current legal set-up protects the fraudster, leaving the victim lost in a quagmire of paperwork and expensive legal action. these proposals would reverse this unfair situation, giving victims a better chance of getting their money back.
in writing. − i support this own-initiative report because it supports the creation of a european order for the preservation of assets and a european order for the disclosure of assets.
in writing. − i strongly believe this report indicates the need for the commission to undertake a thorough spending review in order to identify possible savings which would reduce pressure on the budget during this period of austerity.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which underlines the need for more rigorous examination of projects at the application stage in order to prevent shortcomings, and, accordingly, invites the commission to further improve the use of guidance and checklists by providing clearer criteria for assessing grant applications in order to enhance the effectiveness and consistency of the procedures and their results, and to ensure proper follow-up action in cases of non-provision of required information or action.
in writing. − i voted for the amendment which calls for greater transparency when signing off meps’ general expenditure allowance.
in writing. − i support greater transparency in the parliament and i especially welcome transparency in regard to the gea.
in writing. − i was unable to support granting discharge to the european parliament as some concerns remained unresolved. although parliament has taken steps to improve its budget and make savings, questions remain over some issues such as funding for prizes, which are currently paid for by the tax payer. in addition to this, the final report failed to acknowledge the amount of money being wasted on strasbourg. the report did, however, show that some progress is being made. following today’s vote, new rules will need to be put in place to ensure that meps from all eu countries take steps to ensure the transparency of their office expenses. the report also called for a review of parliament’s expenditure in order to guarantee savings are made in future.
in writing. − i supported parliament’s decision to postpone granting discharge to the council as i believe the council has not provided parliament with sufficient information regarding its accounts. the council needs to be scrutinised in the same way as every other european institution, and written documents must be provided in order for discharge to be granted. the report put a number of questions to council, many of which have not been answered. without concrete explanations from the council on specific issues, it is not possible to give them the green light for their accounts. the decision to grant discharge will be taken at a later date, when sufficient information has been provided.
in writing. − i voted for this report and in doing so welcome the audit strategy of the court of auditors for the period 2009-2012 and support its priority goals (maximising the overall impact from its audits and increasing efficiency by making best use of resources). i expect the court of auditors to report on the steps taken to implement this audit strategy as well as to demonstrate the progress in this direction using the key performance indicators (kpi), in particular with the introduction of kpi 1 to 4 in 2010. i particularly welcome the plan to publish follow-ups in respect of the special reports to increase their impact.
in writing. − in voting on this report i call on the eesc, and in particular on its secretary-general, to cooperate fully with olaf and to provide all necessary assistance to olaf agents in carrying out their investigation in relation to allegations of maladministration.
in writing. − i voted for this report giving discharge to the committee of the regions (cor), and i am pleased that, in our resolution, parliament ‘reconfirms its position that, in the interests of transparency, declarations of financial interests of members of all union institutions should be accessible on the internet via a public register; reminds the cor of its request that cor members declare their financial interests, disclosing relevant information on declarable professional activities and remunerated posts or activities; notes with satisfaction the cor response on the matter, in particular the letter of the president of the cor of 11 february 2011; [and] requests the cor to follow up this issue in its annual activity report’.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european development funds. i welcome the fact that parliament, in its report, reiterates its support for edf budgetisation, which will strengthen the democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding and will provide more coherence in union policy in relation to the acp countries. the report refers to the commission’s statement to the effect that it wants to propose to incorporate the edf into the union budget during discussions on the next financial framework, and that it will keep parliament’s committee on budgetary control fully informed of this initiative. parliament insists, however, that the incorporation of the edf into the union budget must not lead to any overall reduction in development spending with respect to the two current funding instruments. it urges the council and the member states to respond positively to the commission’s proposal and to agree that the edf will be fully incorporated in the union budget from 2014 onwards, as part of the next financial framework. it believes this measure to be long overdue, and that budgetisation of the edf should take place at the earliest possible date.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the agency for fundamental rights and i support calls on the agency to make progress in ensuring, as far as possible, a realistic evaluation of tenders. the resolution notes that the court of auditors reported on this issue in respect of the award of three framework contracts of a total amount of eur 2 575 000, and stresses, in particular, that in these three cases the financial offers differed considerably both in unit prices and in the tenderers’ estimates of the number of man-days necessary for implementation of the same scenario.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. i am of the opinion that, in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks, the joint undertaking should establish an audit committee, reporting directly to the governing board.
in writing. − i very much regret that, during the vote on autonomous trade preferences for pakistan, parliament agreed to reduce the length of the benefits to one year, thus reducing significantly any gain to pakistan.
in writing. − when we first heard in october 2010 of the commission’s plans to help pakistan recover from its awful flooding by removing some customs tariffs, greens were enthusiastic to help. we still are, but a once-simple idea has become over-complicated and unworkable. originally the scheme was for 3 years, although we wanted longer to increase investor confidence. but after various business and interest groups had got involved the proposal was reduced to 12 months only – with quarterly reviews! further, any deal needs a waiver from the world trade organisation, which they haven’t approved as some member countries (notably india) are worried about the effect that duty-free pakistani textiles would have on their own markets. there has been no progress in 5 months, and it’s unlikely we’ll see any soon, if ever. in plenary today i supported an amendment to send the whole report back to committee for re-working. in doing so i wasn’t voting against helping pakistan, but i was recognising the report before us simply wouldn’t deliver what pakistan needs. for me, a major stumbling block has been the wto. i believe this organisation needs comprehensive reorganisation into a properly democratic, accountable and transparent body.
in writing. − i voted for this report and welcome the fact that bilateral investment treaties are now part of the common commercial policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to georgia.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group and i welcome this opportunity to debate the issues and problems which europe faces in the area of migration and the schengen system. the debate is long overdue. now is the time to focus not only on providing free movement, but also on better guarding the borders of member states and the eu itself. rather than pushing for more legislation in the area of immigration and migration, we should be making the legislation that we already have work better and harder for all the citizens of the union. however, current concerns from member states are not reactionary, but instead the inevitable consequence of over 20 years of ever-changing circumstances in europe and around the world. there is no doubt that schengen has been a success in many ways, but europe is facing challenges which simply did not exist to the current extent when the system was first created. large-scale unemployment, migration from north africa, terrorism, organised crime and people-trafficking have provided us with problems far more complex than those envisaged in the policies for free movement of european citizens. it is not an unfair assessment to say that the current system is now shown to be flawed and ill-equipped for the new circumstances we find ourselves in. we need to create an effective tool representative of the modern needs of europe’s member states and able to improve the situation for all. this needs to be complemented by renewed strength in making sure the other agencies of the eu, like frontex, are there to support states in securing their own eu external borders, and that the problems are not exacerbated by further countries which may join the eu and therefore the schengen area that are both ill-prepared to face the challenges and also to assume the burdens that accompany the obvious benefits. this is a problem best solved through communication and cooperation, but europe’s immigration and schengen policies urgently require review, reflection and then sensible reform.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, yesterday indeed was europe day and in the courtyard here we had armed soldiers, we had the luftwaffe band and imperial eagles, we had the flag being paraded, being raised, the european anthem; it was the display of militarism and eu nationalism. i thought and hoped it was all just a bad dream, but today we have got you, mr barroso. you begin of course by reiterating the fact that the free movement of peoples is the embodiment of the european project. you then go on to say that it is the duty of member states to share the burdens of migratory flows into europe. you advocate a common eu immigration policy, but of course you know that you are losing because the row that has blown up between italy and france shows that when there is a crisis, between the theory of european integration and the practicality of nation state, it is the nation state that wins. so you are worried that you are losing and, in your defence of your position, in your defence of your beloved acquis communautaire, your body of law, you resort to intolerance, you resort to nationalism, you make me realise that what i saw yesterday was actually for real. you attack those who want to control their own border policies. you attack them today as xenophobes. you attack them as extremists, but worst of all, oh worst of all, you attack them three times for being populists. is that not a dreadful thing? the power of the ballot box. when people dare to vote no in referendums, they are populists; when they want to control their own borders, they are populists. i put it to you that populists are actually democrats and you abuse those who want to fly the flag of populism. well, here it is, mr barroso. here it is. (mr farage, mr agnew and mr bloom held up small union jacks)that flag has represented liberal democracy far more than any other member state of this european union and it will go on long after your star-spangled banner has disappeared.
mr president, the speaker talked of strengthening schengen. does that include strengthening schengen’s borders and, in particular, the borders between greece and turkey?
madam president, the position of the s&d group is very clear. we have heard all the background as to why schengen is being breached and we have waited since 1999 for any kind of common migration or asylum policy. so we are very clear in our messages. first to the commission: on schengen, you want a community mechanism for collective decision-making, you want to move away from intergovernmentalism, you want a lock on the political opportunism that we have seen from italy and from france. so please do not make the message ambiguous in the statement. make it clear that you will have a lock and you will prevent that type of opportunism which will in the end break schengen. to the council: you have waited since 1999 for a common european asylum system, you have created a situation where solidarity and burden-sharing are often spoken of in this place, but we are nowhere near the formal mechanism for burden-sharing in the european community. you are blocking much of the work we are doing here in parliament. unblock it. work with us and the commission to ensure that solidarity means solidarity, burden-sharing means burden-sharing. and finally, the commission is looking ahead to a migration policy. work with us. do not be timid, be courageous and ensure that when we fix schengen, we also fix our common migration policy and we have something to be proud of.
madam president, like others i think that commissioner malmström is doing a very good job, but i also feel, in view of president barroso’s robust defence of schengen free movement today, that i do not really understand how the notion could possibly have taken hold that the commission’s proposed eu-level mechanism is going to make it easier to reintroduce internal border controls. yet that notion has taken hold. it could not possibly be, could it, that different messages are being sent to different audiences, one to meps, maybe one to paris and rome? the eu’s migration and asylum pressures ought to be capable of effective management by competent governments. unfortunately we have too many governments now which are playing to the extremist right-wing gallery. the european commission must indeed defend eu internal free movement and not throw gestures to the likes of president sarkozy and prime minister berlusconi for electioneering purposes. it should highlight the failure of member states to implement eu migration rules. lastly, the commission must investigate allegations about 61 migrants being left to die, despite their making contact with italian coastguards, a nato warship and a military helicopter. any authorities that breached international maritime and humanitarian law must be brought to book.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
, in writing. – the commission’s response to any perceived challenge to the eu is to reach for more centralised powers. in the same way the financial crisis played perfectly into their hands and they leapt at the chance to justify economic governance rather than admit the euro’s failure, concerns about the sudden influx of migrants and the stresses it puts on countries is being used to call for the reinforcement of schengen with increased centralised governance. meps are elected by the people, as the voice of the people. they represent the countries they are from. yet when they reflect national interests here, it’s labelled ‘populist’. mr barroso said it’s becoming fashionable to be populist and wave the flag of xenophobia. does he believe the very essence of being a country – having a domestic government, an independent economy and national borders – is inherently wrong? why not have the guts to just scrap parliament and take over europe by force? name calling, scaremongering and creeping bureaucracy is calculated and megalomaniac. but don’t think we are unaware. if we were, the so called ‘fashion’ for populism would not be developing. people are waking up to your intentions and the time will come that you are exposed.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by carlo casini, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission on a common transparency register (2010/2291(aci)) (a7-0174/2011), and– the report by carlo casini, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of parliament’s rules of procedure following the establishment by the european parliament and the commission of a joint transparency register (2010/2292(reg)) (a7-0173/2011).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, recent scandals have certainly exposed the power that lobbyists can have upon parliament, so the liberal group strongly welcomes the streamlining of the lobbyists’ register, which creates effectively a straightforward mandatory system which ought to bring greater transparency and improved consultative processes. i commend especially paragraph 9 of the report, which invites the bureau to set up a system of legislative footprints whereby rapporteurs can record those that have lobbied in the course of progressing a draft law. this is a sensitive question, but i think that it would be a further step forward in improving the popular legitimacy of parliament and the quality of our law-making. the system can only be complete once the council – which is the second chamber of our legislature – joins in, but i welcome the tentative steps forward which are being made and i thank the presidency for its statement this afternoon. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i think this would be an experiment. like all experiments, if it were to be successful, the practice would spread. however, i think that it ought to be limited to rapporteurs who are responsible for drafting a law on behalf of parliament. they should publish the names of people with whom they have had official meetings in the course of their work. i think it would encourage intelligent and informed lobbying in parliament. we all know that we rely on the specialism and expertise of professionals outside this house to produce top class drafting.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, may i start by thanking mr casini for his work in delivering this interinstitutional agreement. members of the committee on constitutional affairs and the commission have worked well to develop a meaningful and practical report which will deliver more transparency in the legislative process. madam president, it is good that you are in the chair today; i thank you for your work in the negotiations between parliament and the commission. this report is proportional in its approach; it is useful and i believe it will do good. it recognises the important role that regional and local governments play in shaping european legislation, and therefore clearly differentiates between lobbyists and local and regional government officials. although the report is a step in the right direction, there is still more that needs to be done. i hope that this register – if it proves to be a success – will develop into a mandatory register of lobbyists. i agree with mr duff’s proposal that rapporteurs should name the lobbyists that they have had contact with when drafting a law. there is no doubt that we in this chamber are regarded with a fair amount of suspicion by our constituents. the more transparency and the more openness there is the better. with that in mind, could i just say that the one problem with this agreement is that it is one institution short. it is disappointing that the council has not signed up. as co-legislator, the member states should come together and sign up to the register so that we can deliver a truly transparent legislative process.
madam president, so we are to have a transparency register! unsurprisingly, this has only come about because enterprising british journalists were able to demonstrate the ease with which some meps succumbed to the lure of money. at that point, the european parliament, not unlike the police chief in the film casablanca, professed itself to be shocked – shocked! – to discover that corrupt lobbying had been taking place under its very nose. this register bears all the hallmarks of the stable door being shut long after the horse has gone. the register will change little; the lobbyists will always get through. a voluntary system of registration was introduced; it was quite ineffectual. now some light will shine on what is going on, but most of this will be thrust back into the murky depths of the stagnant pond; it will be business as usual. as usual, the law-abiding will bear the brunt of the red tape, and wrongdoers will just find a way of carrying on. while taxpayers’ money sloshes around brussels in the quantities that it does, there will always be unscrupulous lobbyists, just as where there is carrion, there are always vultures. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, this appears to be the catalyst which started the whole thing off. i do not want any british meps to be here anyway. i do not see why we should have to put up with foreign institutions like this running our affairs. the further we go to the south and east, the worse the culture of corruption becomes. i do not like it, and i do not want my country to have any part in it.
mr president, i speak as the rapporteur on the public access to documents regulation no 1049/2001 and, in the spirit of the openness and transparency enshrined within that regulation, i welcome this agreement. it is another step in the right direction because openness and transparency are at the heart of the democratic decision-making process and we should be made aware of all of those who influence and sometimes have an undue influence on policy, procedures and outcomes. however, we need to do more work, we need to ensure that the transparency and integrity of the work of lobbyists at the eu level is of the highest. furthermore, we need to make the new register operational as quickly as possible and, as soon as the register is operational, all persons and organisations falling into its scope should provide correct, up-to-date information so we can see who is influencing what. finally, let me quote jana mittermaier of transparency international: ‘the new register will be a test of the commitment of all parties involved in lobbying to greater openness.’ you could not say it more succinctly.
mr president, the explosion at chernobyl was a disaster, but let us keep it in perspective: 64 people were killed by chernobyl radiation over 23 years, and it caused an unknown proportion of 6000 cases of thyroid cancer. these are tragic figures but they pale into insignificance compared to the death toll on our roads. yet, while no one is using road traffic accidents to campaign to ban the motor car, a small army of leftists is using chernobyl to push for an end to nuclear power. i do not doubt that they mean well but the road to hell is paved with good intentions. the same people meant well when they helped to create the biofuels rush, pushing the price of food beyond the reach of the world’s poor. tonight millions of children will go to bed slowly dying of hunger because people on that side of the house meant well: that is what the fuzzy ideals of the utopian left do in the real world. the impact of a nuclear ban would be even worse because the alternative to nuclear power is not wind farms and solar panels. in our energy-scarce, post-peak oil world, the alternative to reactors is mass starvation.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0303/2011). colleagues, please note that we are starting 40 minutes late. the following questions are addressed to the commission.
mr mitchell, it is not the bureau, it is a matter for the conference of presidents, but no doubt the swoboda reforms will make proposals on how to deal with this. i agree with you. it is totally unsatisfactory, but i took the chair at just 19.40 so i am not really responsible for the delay.
question 17 by seán kelly (h-000158/11) subject: the cap and the multi-annual financial framework beyond 2013 the need for an adequately-financed cap, which delivers public goods, such as a secure and sustainable food supply for the eu, which ensures a stable food price regime both at the farm gate and on the shop shelves and which underpins a vibrant rural economy, is as important now as ever, especially in the light of the recent rise in energy prices and instability in certain regions of the globe. can the commission confirm that an adequately-financed cap, maintaining the current share of the eu budget, will be a central part of any reform to the multi-annual financial framework, in the light of the central role that the common agricultural policy plays in continuing to deliver such public goods? question 18 by brian crowley (h-000192/11) subject: the funding of the cap post 2013 can the commission confirm its support for a strong and well resourced common agricultural policy under the next multiannual financial framework?
question 19 by spyros danellis (h-000185/11) subject: innovation and measures to combat climate change in order to achieve its ambitious climate objectives, the eu needs new innovative technologies. adjustment to climate change could thus become an instrument for growth, generating hundreds of thousands of jobs as well as exports of advanced technology. however, insufficient private investment in new high-risk small and medium-sized enterprises (sme), will leave green technology innovation in europe largely dependent on public funding. according to the oecd, intergovernmental coordination is vital in the eu with its 27 national innovation policies and a plethora of eu programmes (for example, eerp, set plan, ner 300, europe innova, cohesion fund). would the commission therefore consider it advisable to entrust a specialist body operating across the board with the task of simplifying matters, establishing common objectives and selection criteria and providing information for stakeholders regarding eu programmes for innovation in green technology? would the commission consider the introduction of fresh incentives, such as an annual climate innovation award?
question 20 by nikolaos chountis (h-000170/11) subject: need for changes to the eu budget the onset of the crisis in 2008 sent eu member states' deficit and debt levels spiralling to unprecedented levels, thereby increasing the cost of credit and creating serious debt servicing difficulties. nearly all eu member state governments have adopted tough austerity programmes with a view to cutting both public spending and public investment programmes. the effect of this has made itself felt immediately, drastically undermining social benefits and causing the recession to spread. given that the eu budget is potentially a major instrument for growth and given that it has not yet undergone substantial restructuring in response to the new developments resulting from the generalised economic and debt crisis:is the commission considering proposals for a general restructuring of the eu budget, involving modifications to budgetary guidelines and appropriations, with a view to helping the member states respond to the social impact of the crisis and support their endeavours to stimulate growth?
question 21 by marian harkin (h-000161/11) subject: european voluntary humanitarian aid corps in this the european year of volunteering 2011, can the commission update parliament as to where we currently stand in the legislative process establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (evhac)? in particular, what actions are likely to be taken based on the results of the public consultation, and, secondly, can the commission indicate which specific pilot projects have been selected at this point?
question 22 by bernd posselt (h-000169/11) subject: humanitarian aid for libya what is the state of progress with regard to the commission’s humanitarian aid for the rebels and innocent civilians in libya and other crisis areas in north africa? what is the overall outcome of the commission’s activities in this field in the past few months? question no 25 by sarah ludford (h-000193/11) subject: civilian and military disaster response the conflict in libya has shown the importance of europe’s ability to mobilise a range of resources for rapid reaction. what is the commission’s assessment of the eu’s progress in its ability to draw on both military and humanitarian capabilities in a coordinated way? has the suggestion of a permanent body to coordinate both civilian and military disaster response from the eu and member states made any headway?
commissioner, in the light of parliament resolutions and the council conclusions of last december, could you give us your assessment of the progress that has been made since the 2006 barnier report in setting up a really coherent rapid reaction or disaster response mechanism: one that draws together humanitarian, civil protection and military assets and that has a pre-identified pool of resources from member states rather than an ad hoc approach? are we getting our act together? can you reassure us?
question 24 by pat the cope gallagher (h-000190/11) subject: canned fish products as part of food aid has the commission included processed canned fish products as part of food aid packages sent by the european union to countries suffering from a humanitarian crisis? would the commission not agree that processed canned fish products are ideally suited for food aid as the product is high in protein, has a long shelf life and can be supplied at short notice?
baroness ludford, you have had your answer. do you want to press me for a supplementary? is that what it is? you have had the answer to your question.
yes, indeed! the council conclusions of last december talked about various commission proposals during 2011. i cannot claim to be a specialist in this area but they have not hit the headlines and i wondered whether any have been made. this is going back to proposals that have been made in the past, including by colleagues in my political group, for an eu fast-track organisation. the parliament called for a european civil protection force, with the idea of having some kind of permanent body so that we would not have to keep relying on this hand-to-mouth exercise; we would set up the mechanisms so that we could go into action very quickly. i know you said we have made progress, but are we getting to the really ideal situation?
question 26 by jim higgins (h-000157/11) subject: climate change and the role of farmers does the commission have a view on what importance should be given to the role of farmers, in terms of carbon sinks, forests and other measures, when fighting one of the biggest challenges our environment faces today? how does the commission intend to support farmers in their battle against climate change?
question 27 by justas vincas paleckis (h-000162/11) subject: gender equality in the fight against climate change according to the 2011 global climate risk index there are six member states among the 35 countries in the world which are most at risk. in terms of climate change, women comprise the most vulnerable group, as they form the majority of the poorest populations. although gender equality is recognised as a precondition for the achievement of sustainable development and the millennium development goals, climate change policy does not, in the view of the experts, pay sufficient attention to this. there is clearly no procedure for involving women in the fight against climate change. what action does the commission plan to take in order to include the subject of gender equality in european climate change policy?
question 28 by zbigniew ziobro (h-000164/11) subject: costs of cutting co2 in the european union the european union is planning to cut co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this ambitious target cannot be attained without affecting the economies of the member states. firms are already moving their production out of the eu as they are unable to afford the cost of european climate policy. has the commission carried out any simulations to show how cutting co2 emissions will affect the economies of the eu member states? which countries will be hit hardest by this move and how will it affect their gdp? what would be the costs to the member states’ economies of a target to cut emissions by 10 and 15% by 2020?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.20 and resumed at 21.00)
author. − mr president, i should like to say this to the commissioner: the bank crisis resolution is being elaborated at an international level and there are also important competition issues to address, but this does not mean that everything has to wait, in particular when we have a combined sovereign debt and banking crisis. last year’s tests were weak. we said so then and have repeatedly said that bank stress tests must be credible, robust and transparent. indeed we need a whole lot more banking transparency in general. so i suggest that we take a lesson from the us and the dodd frank act which requires disclosure, with a two-year time lag, of the us fed’s liquidity provision. there are european names in the us disclosures, and it would be an altogether healthy thing for eu central banks to follow suit with similar disclosure about support during 2008 and 2009 as an accompaniment to the new stress tests. now these new stress tests are improved under the eba but there are still issues being avoided due to guarding and prevarication by member states. it is about time that the message sank in that feeble political will is not the answer to this crisis and makes solutions more expensive. why try and hide the full level of banks’ exposure to sovereign debt, especially when we all know the likely reality? there really is no excuse not to stress-test the banking book. various assets got parked there, under the heading of hold to maturity, which would have been moved if they had not lost value. of course, analysts in the market are well able to read across from stress tests and other information and make an estimate as to what is going on in the banking books. but a darker interpretation, reflecting on some member states themselves, will be cast by the fact that member states – and in many cases the supervisors are the culprits – were not bolder incoming clean. meanwhile actions are being provoked by the stress tests; banks are seeking capital; some member states are being proactive in pushing banks to raise capital. but there is no overall plan to address under-capitalisation. this simply does not stack up; surely one thing we have learned in the crisis is that we are very interconnected. if banks do not trust one another and inter-bank lending is frozen, we have a big problem. so please can we have proper disclosed coordination of the response? but let us not dodge the elephant in the room: this is not just about banks, it is about sovereign debt and the stability of the euro: inextricably linked and overwhelmingly important.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last summer’s stress tests were meant to restore confidence in banks. this was europe’s attempt to tell global markets to ‘calm down, dear’. it failed. nineteen weeks later, the irish banks collapsed and taxpayers across europe were forced into a bail-out, and just last week we learnt that eur 12 billion of the proposed portuguese bail-out is for their banks. the sovereign debt crisis will not be solved until the bank crisis is solved – and the bank crisis will not be solved until markets are confident in providing capital and liquidity to banks. stress tests are meant to stress risks. to assuage market concerns they must stress the risks that the markets are concerned about, and right now the markets are concerned about sovereign debt levels. refusing to test the sovereign debt held on the whole bank balance sheet will not restore confidence. the european banking authority is of course caught between a rock and a hard place: publicly admitting that the risk of a write-down exists may perpetuate the risk of it occurring, but denying that it exists at all would be downright irresponsible for a regulator. and then there are the trillion dollar questions. behind closed doors the argument has focused on the numerator. what type of capital do banks hold? the longer individual countries fight for their own opt-outs, the more everyone becomes aware that not all banks are equal and market concerns multiply. but we should also be concerned about the denominator. what is the risk of the assets on the balance sheets, and can you trust the risk weights applied to those assets? if us banks have risk weights 50% higher than european counterparts, are europe’s banks being allowed to fundamentally misrepresent the risks on their balance sheets? the financial crisis should have taught us all to value transparency. for depositors, investors, borrowers and taxpayers these stress tests do not offer transparency and that is a travesty.
author. − mr president, does the commissioner not consider that, if any of us woke up one morning to find our rich neighbours had dumped their toxic rubbish in our front yard, we would be furious? yet that is what the eu is doing every day. every year tonnes of toxic waste is shipped from the eu to developing countries against european environmental law, smuggled through ports with very weak controls. almost three quarters of electric waste in the eu is unaccounted for and only one third of electronic waste is treated according to eu legislation. in the uk the average briton throws away four pieces of electronic waste every year. that is 500 000 tonnes of broken tvs, computers and phones, but over half of this is not recorded as being recycled – it just disappears – and that is only in my own country. the export of controlled waste from the eu for disposal is prohibited under current legislations, yet annually illegal shipments from the eu are thought to average about 22 000 tonnes. the weee directive states that exported electronic items must be in working order. however, this relies on effective eu-wide inspection policies which are clearly missing. this waste contains lead, cadmium, barium, mercury, brominated flame retardants and other chemicals and plastics that become hazardous when burned. burning is often the cheapest method to recover these valuable metals as adults and children scramble over the dumps of rubbish in their quest to earn a few cents. we cannot ignore the environmental and health impacts of this scandal which affects the most vulnerable. frankly, as a european, i am ashamed. i thank the commissioner for the answers and the responses, but we need to know the specifics of how he is going to close this loophole in the waste shipment regulation. does the commission have any plans to address the tonnes of eu waste already dumped in african countries? does the waste shipment regulation need to be revised or is it just a matter of enforcement? this is an urgent problem and action needs to be taken now. i await your response.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the major development in the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) this year has undoubtedly been the establishment of the european external action service (eeas). baroness ashton, as vice-president/high representative, you have recently come under pressure for its lacklustre performance. however, you can only ever be as effective as the member states will allow you to be, and of course you are reluctant to use your own powers of initiative – an approach which i fully support. on the one hand, the eu wants to carve out its global role as a diplomatic heavyweight but, on the other hand, the cfsp requires unanimity, which means compromising to preserve the interests of individual member states, particularly the big ones. this hybrid sui generis approach to eu foreign policy vindicates those of us who opposed the creation of the eeas in the first place, believing then that the eu’s global ambitions would undermine national sovereignty. paradoxically, it now seems that national sovereignty is undermining the eu’s global ambitions, as we saw recently over what happened in libya. the ecr, my group, nevertheless remains constructively engaged with the eeas. we wish it well. we hope it will work. it needs to bed down, and we want to see budget neutrality and more political accountability. although the vice-president/high representative has made excellent senior appointments – i have seen some of these before the committee on foreign affairs – i must ask why she has been short-changed in a stitch-up by the commission, which seems to have retained a disproportionate amount of resources for eu enlargement and the european neighbourhood policy. this split does not provide value for money to eu taxpayers, nor does it serve our foreign policy interests. can i now make some specific requests, firstly on the imminent gaza flotilla mark ii? can you, madam vice-president/high representative, put pressure on turkey to stop this dangerous provocation at a time when israel is under enormous tension and pressure, with missile attacks from gaza and the renewed passage of iranian warships through the suez canal? and how will the eu engage with a new unitary palestinian authority that has hamas, a terrorist organisation banned by the eu, as one of its components? secondly, madam vice-president/high representative, will you broker a solution for the closure of camp ashraf in iraq? next, will you condemn forthrightly and totally the passage of the bahati bill in uganda, which allows the execution of homosexuals? lastly, i entirely agree with mr verhofstadt: i commend you in all your efforts to stabilise the middle east and north african countries, and in particular your condemnation of the killing of christians in egypt, but why, as mr verhofstadt has pointed out, has president assad of syria been left off the eu sanctions list after the brutal killing of innocent civilian protesters by his forces in recent days?
madam president, i should like to say this to cathy ashton: you spoke lucidly of the problems of getting agreement amongst 27 foreign ministers. but the treaty of lisbon allows you not to do so: you can form coalitions of the willing and build up a systematic form of reinforced cooperation. i think that if unanimity can only agree upon a list of 13 syrians to sanction, then it is the imperative of unanimity which ought to be scrapped. my advice is to find the avant-garde, to forge a core group of politically willing states and work with them to forge a common policy.
madam president, baroness ashton will not be surprised if i express disappointment, not in the performance of the european common security and defence policy (csdp), but in the fact that she still insists on flogging this particular unnecessary and very expensive dead horse. she may claim that the european union has been engaged in some 25 missions with a csdp label. well, it is all about the label: few of these missions stand up to scrutiny. they are either missions better performed by nato, straightforward civilian missions, or they are passive missions involving military personnel. they have usually come about because the european union has begged somebody to invite it to do something. currently there are military operations being conducted by nato in libya. having failed to get a mandate to enforce the maritime embargo, the eu has been desperately trying to get the un to invite it to carry out a humanitarian assistance programme. the fact is that neither nato nor the un wants the eu pretending to get involved militarily. of course there is a great need for humanitarian assistance and the eu could play a useful role, but not in a way that merely seeks to promote a misplaced military ambition. the trouble is that the very existence of the csdp and all its duplicative structures is divisive and encourages allies to think twice about robust commitment to nato operations. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, would my colleague agree with me that, with regard to the un, if there was a single seat for the european union on the un security council – which is much mooted at the moment – that would constitute a significant transfer of sovereignty from the uk, and indeed france, to the european union? surely the current uk government, of which he is a supporter, would definitely not support such a transfer of sovereignty?
madam president, i would like to thank the honourable member for that question. of course this is another of the baleful consequences of the lisbon treaty. i find totally unacceptable the idea that the united kingdom and france should indeed give over their united nations security council seat in order to enable the eu to sit at the security council table. i do not see that either member state would be willing to do that. unfortunately the lisbon treaty encourages that, which is, as i say, one of the reasons why we so object to it.
madam president, for a start, i pay tribute to my colleague who has just spoken for her tireless work on human rights. she talks about a common eu policy on foreign affairs, etc. but does she share my dismay at the hypocrisy of the european union? as she and i both know, the eu is opposed to the death penalty, and yet the joint statement by president barroso and president von rompuy on the death of bin laden says that it ‘shows that such crimes do not remain unpunished’. does that imply acceptance that the death penalty is a punishment?
madam president, i have words of sympathy and support for baroness ashton: i was watching a bbc programme recently on which you were being interviewed by jeremy paxman, who asked you some very pertinent questions and you felt very uncomfortable. he asked you from whom you actually take your orders and which of the 27 nations you can actually speak about – and i think those questions have resonated in the chamber today. there is not one common policy, is there? we saw this with the un resolution on the no-fly zone in libya, when germany voted against it. how can we have a common policy when one of the major eu countries actually votes in opposition to two other major eu countries? you have an impossible task. my words of support – and i was relieved to read in the sunday papers that you denied you would be quitting your post – are these: as someone who is very critical of a common eu policy and of the eu taking sovereignty from my country, i wish you to stay in post for as long as possible because, while you are there, i do not think we are going to have much problem with loss of sovereignty. after all, when you were the leader of the uk house of lords, and you pushed through the lisbon treaty, which created your gbp 313 000-a-year job, you actually said, over and over again, that this was just a tidying-up exercise and not a significant transfer of sovereignty. you said that repeatedly to the house of lords. so there is no point asking you questions, because can we get an honest answer?
madam president, can i start by congratulating the vice-president/high representative on her personal success in negotiating the compromise in the united nations on eu speaking rights, where others had failed. whatever people in this chamber, or anyone else in the european union, think about our common foreign and security policy, this is the most outstanding objective endorsement of the ambition that you and we have for the lisbon treaty, a foreign policy that has real trust and respect from our foreign partners. as socialist coordinator on human rights, i also want to congratulate the high representative on her strategic review of human rights and on the commitment in her letter to foreign ministers to integrate human rights with trade development and other eu policies and to achieve ‘specific deliverables’. in this parliament we called on her to create a human rights and democracy directorate and to consistently meet human rights defenders in all of her visits, and we thank her for doing so. when she says that ending the death penalty is her personal priority, this parliament must also give her our strong support. our group supports ms muñiz de urquiza in calling for greater visibility for the eu in the human rights council. we back mr albertini in saying that the eu must act, as well as speak, in the face of human rights violations. we emphasise mr gualtieri’s conclusion that respect for human rights can never be compromised. on behalf of my group, i also want to record our support on the issue of returning tax revenues to the palestinians. this is our annual debate on foreign policy, and in the next year we hope to see clear outcomes to the human rights review and significant steps to developing a human rights culture in everything that the european external action service does.
madam president, following the appalling massacre in camp ashraf on 8 april, the situation there remains critical. another bloody attack could take place at any moment. i have just returned from baghdad, where i led a small delegation of meps in high-level talks with the president of iraq and senior government ministers. i have now brokered a solution to the ashraf crisis, which you have seen, baroness ashton. it requires the involvement of the un, the us and the eu and needs your active encouragement to achieve the resettlement of the 3400 refugees from ashraf to the us, canada, australia, norway, switzerland and the eu member states, or wherever they have family or other connections. this is the only option that can avoid another humanitarian catastrophe, and it has been agreed by the people of ashraf themselves. the european parliament relies on you to seize this opportunity to save innocent lives and avoid further violence and bloodshed.
madam president, europe day this week was supposed to be a celebration of european national identity. it is not. it marks the ongoing replacement of european nation states with an eu supranational government, meaning above nation states. this is in contrast to intergovernmental, where nation states freely cooperate, but do not cede powers to a higher central authority. the libyan no-fly zone illustrates the difference. the intergovernmental united nations agreed a no-fly zone pioneered by nation states such as britain, france and the united states, whilst nation states such as germany and russia abstained for their own valid reasons. the intergovernmental nato is now conducting that operation through voluntary participation. in contrast, the supranational eu vigorously opposed david cameron’s proposal for a no-fly zone. it is ironic that the red baroness herself, cathy ashton, stood against this no-fly proposal, her aide reportedly calling it ‘headline-grabbing desperation’. the lesson of this is that principal nations act intergovernmentally while supranational bodies merely fiddle as libya burns.
mr president, it is self-evident that foreign and security policy is the defining role of a sovereign state. to make it the role of a supranational authority ignores or devalues the vital question of relations between member states, or is in fact an admission that they are no longer sovereign states. there is nothing wrong with an eu policy of avoiding all european wars, but i would reject the supposition that a surrender of sovereignty is necessary to achieve that. it should also be the function of every european state to defend europe’s great achievements from distraction or dilution. aggressive wars in which european nations have no legitimate interest must be avoided at all costs. equally we must not engage in behind-the-scenes agitation in a hypocritical attempt to plant so-called ‘european values’ in inhospitable soil. we must avoid europe being the repository of migrating third-worlders. their cultures are the product of distinctive peoples. bring the population of the third world to europe... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, while you are enjoying yourself with your jokey and unorthodox approach to dealing with requests from the floor for check votes, may i humbly submit that, if you were to go a little slower, the interpretation could keep up with your announcements, and we could then vote in a more timely fashion. you are going a little fast and there is a little delay.
mr president, i have to echo mr chichester’s earlier intervention. we are being given by our interpreters the choice to vote ‘no’ after you have said ‘εγκρίνεται’ [‘adopted’]. i am not aware that the ability to speak greek is required of meps. if it is going to be, please tell us. if not, please slow down slightly.
mr president, you speak very good english, as you have amply demonstrated. why, therefore, do you persist in this charade – pantomime – of speaking this unnecessary greek? (prolonged noise)
mr president, on a point of order, on the next report, which is the muñiz de urquiza report. i am applying to speak under rule 167 on roll-call votes. going back to the arsenis report, on amendment 25, one of my colleagues over there requested a roll-call vote because he felt it was important. you granted it to him. there is no provision for this in the rules of procedure and you did not ask parliament for approval. we have all enjoyed the unorthodox powers that you have granted yourself today, so i would like to ask for the same provision. because this is important to me personally, i should like you to grant me a roll-call vote on every amendment on this report under the same rule whereby you granted it to the gentleman over there.
mr president, today we have voted on the addition of new textiles and fibres and labelling-related matters. from the outset of this textile report, i have been of the opinion that parliament should keep to the scope of the proposal as it was originally designated and that the extension of this scope was not compatible with the aim of simplification for putting a new fibre on the market. i have concerns about the provision of a review clause which will ask the commission to investigate the possible introduction of a number of labelling requirements which have little added value and would place unacceptable burdens on businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. this includes the harmonisation of size labelling, social economic labelling and, most worryingly, a radio frequency identification tag which would increase costs for business and prices for the consumer. nonetheless, from this report i feel that some of the provisions in this regulation will make a difference, will improve the application process for business and enhance consumer protection, especially on the labelling of animal-derived products. but we need to be mindful that we are legislating for the real world, not making a wish list for an ideal world, and that parliament should stick to its areas of competence in future.
mr president, may i begin by saying that i hope you will continue to address this chamber in your native tongue, which matches any language in the world for its accomplishment, its diversity and its antiquity. there are times when reading the voting list is a more eloquent comment on the behaviour and nature of this parliament than almost anything else i could say. let us just look at the subjects of some of these reports: indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs; approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement; permissible sound level and exhaust system of motor vehicles; narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors; controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; rear-mounted roll-over protection structures; excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco; denominations and technical specifications of euro coins; textile names and related labelling of textile products ... and i could go on. there is almost no nook or cranny of our national life so remote that brussels has not curled its tendrils thither, choking out the natural light and blocking out the native growth. if brussels confined itself to cross-border issues, then no one would have a problem.
mr president, the moment the lobbyist arrives in brussels he perceives immediately that this was a system designed by, and for, people like him. he is usually a man, although his female equivalent can increasingly be found stalking our corridors in her sharp trouser suit. this is a system where decisions are taken – i would say in smoke-filled rooms, but these days in smoke-free rooms – behind closed doors with the voters frozen out. you had a perfect example of that with the new restrictions and bans on herbal and alternative medicines which came in a couple of weeks ago. such a ban would never have passed a national parliament, all of them being subjected as they were to real anger from their constituents. however, the big pharmaceutical corporations understood that they could push through in this system what they could never get through the national legislatures, precisely because this system is much more invulnerable to public opinion. so, yes, let us have this register – i voted for it and my group supported it – but the real solution is to disperse the power away from these unaccountable brussels and strasbourg institutions back to genuinely answerable national, democratic parliaments.
mr president, the government of singapore and the authorities in hong kong and shanghai are scouring london and the other financial centres of europe looking to recruit the people who have been driven abroad by the excessive regulatory burden being imposed by the european union. our generation is witnessing an epical shift in wealth and enterprise from europe to asia. it is our tragedy to live at a time where, just as asia has discovered the secrets of decentralisation, diffusion of power, enterprise and personal responsibility, we in this part of the world are going in the opposite direction, copying the old asian empires – the mings, the moguls and the ottomans – in regulating, uniformising, standardising and taxing. of course, it is my own country, my own capital city of london, which will be most adversely affected by these new restrictions, but the eu as a whole has an interest in preventing this haemorrhage of wealth, of jobs and of enterprise from europe to younger and more virile economies. again, the solution is to push powers down back to national authorities which have genuine affinity and allegiance from their voters.
mr president, there are two words that spring to mind to describe where we find ourselves today with regard to the common foreign and security policy. unfortunately, they are not very nice words. the ones i think of are ‘mess’ and ‘a bit of a joke’. unfortunately, it is rather a sick joke. in the last 15 months – a period that has presented ample opportunities throughout the world to prove its credentials – our so-called common policy has failed to make any positive impact. i say that not as a great aficionado of foreign affairs, but i have to answer my constituents as to what does europe add in value to us? it is of real concern to them that the cost of delivering this common policy is not being carefully allocated and not being carefully accounted for. i have to answer my citizens about what service this is giving them, and i still, after the lengthy debates on these reports, struggle to come up with an answer.
mr president, as i may be the last speaker, let me take this opportunity to thank your staff and the interpreters for your patience. please do not think it goes unnoticed or unappreciated. the european union is hungry and eager in its acquisition of all of the attributes and trappings of statehood. it has its own parliament, its own currency, its own president, its own foreign minister, its own external borders, its own flag, anthem, passport and driving licence. it was only a matter of time before it would apply for formal recognition as a state in the united nations, which of course is what has now happened, with – rather disgracefully and to me bafflingly – the support of my own government. this is a legal regularisation of something that has been happening de facto for some time: the pushing of the powers that we regard as definitive of statehood from national to brussels level. but the other member states of the european union should be wary of what they agree. one of the consequences of giving the eu full recognition of statehood is that they now can be addressed at length by baroness ashton and by mr van rompuy, as respectively the foreign minister and the head of state of the new entity. and, as members of this house i am sure will privately be able to let them know, that is not an unmixed blessing.
in writing. − i voted for this report on a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report endorsing the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report on the amended proposal for a council directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco (codified text).
in writing. − i voted for this report on the proposal for a council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation (codified text).
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal, as it simplifies the existing regulatory framework and has the potential to encourage innovation in the textile and clothing sector, whilst allowing fibre users and consumers to benefit more readily from innovative products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of labelling country of origin and fur and welcome this piece of legislation.
in writing. − following today’s vote on labelling, consumers will no longer face the risk of mistakenly buying textiles containing real leather or fur. i believe that consumers have the right to know what the products they buy are made from, and this report ensures that any animal-derived materials will be indicated on textile product labels. this is good news not only for people who do not want to buy products that contain real fur or leather, but also for those who suffer from allergies. i am disappointed that this report did not make origin labelling compulsory for textile products, but i am encouraged that the commission will come forward with an assessment report to address such issues in the future.
in writing. − i strongly support the amendment of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 december 2015 and make certain adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − i voted for this report. radio frequencies serve the public interest in a wide range of areas in the member states. in that connection, due account has to be taken of a host of specific national and regional characteristics. it is doubtful whether the eu can reconcile these matters of public interest and these characteristics as well and as efficiently as its member states. for that reason (and in the light of the allocation of competences laid down in article 9(1) of the framework directive), i oppose the establishment of an overarching spectrum planning and management system at european level.
in writing. − i backed the commission's radio spectrum policy programme (rspp) because i believe that all eu citizens should have access to a faster broadband connection by 2020. the rspp will ensure that the digital divide is reduced by introducing measures to bring faster web access to all citizens and businesses. this will be especially beneficial to those living in rural or remote parts of the eu that currently have little or no internet connection. this improved network will also contribute to making europe's digital economy more competitive, in the hope of developing an innovative and creative environment that can foster future advances in digital technology.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained on this vote, not because we do not want transparency but because these proposals are inadequate, and to vote in favour would have been to endorse inadequate provisions.
in writing. − i welcome this report. following the ratification of the lisbon treaty, parliament’s powers have been strengthened and it is now co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. as a result, it is the focus of attention of an even larger number of lobbyists, who, moreover, play a key role in the open, pluralist dialogue on which a democratic system is based and act as an important source of information for members in the context of the performance of their duties. in the light of these developments, and against this constitutional background, and in keeping with their commitment to transparency, parliament and the commission have agreed to establish and maintain a joint register in order to keep a list of the names of, and exercise scrutiny over, the organisations and individuals who take part in the drafting and implementation of eu policies.
in writing. − i supported today's report calling for a joint register of lobbyists and interest groups to be set up. this is a first step towards greater transparency in both the european parliament and commission. a ‘transparency register’ will improve ease of access for citizens wishing to find specific information regarding which organisations and individuals have contact with both meps and commission officials. the parliament has made clear that registration for lobbyists who want to meet with meps will be mandatory from now on. i am encouraged by the council's signal that it will also consider arrangements to put in place such a register and urge them to do so without delay.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained on this vote not because we do not want transparency but because these proposals are inadequate, and to vote in favour would have been to endorse inadequate provisions.
in writing. − transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy. it should be easy to scrutinize how decisions are made, what are the influences behind them and finally how resources, i.e. taxpayer’s money, are allocated. therefore rules for lobbying are ultimately a question of legitimacy. the parliament was the first european institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at european level and, especially, the consequences of this evolution for the legislative process. after several reports and thorough discussions the parliament launched its register of interest representatives in 1996. the joint register will be a step forward towards greater transparency in the european institutions, which hopefully will contribute to greater legitimacy of the european project among its citizens.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the aim of the green paper under consideration here is to draw conclusions from the global financial crisis triggered by the bankruptcy of the lehman brothers bank in autumn 2008 following the inappropriate securitisation of us subprime mortgages. in the light of the development of new financial instruments in a globalised world, the green paper takes a critical look at the soundness of financial institutions and of the financial system as a whole, and at the regulation and supervision of the system, with a view to preventing any repeat of the crisis in the future. the commission regards the strengthening of corporate governance as central to its financial market reform and crisis prevention programme. in that connection, the commission notes in particular that in the financial services sector corporate governance must take account of the interests of other stakeholders (depositors, savers, life insurance policy holders, etc.) and of the stability of the financial system, owing to the systemic nature of many of the players involved
in writing. − poor corporate governance in financial institutions - and particularly banks' murky pay culture - was a key factor in creating the conditions for the financial crisis. labour euro mps backed this report which, thanks to amendments adopted at the committee stage, calls for commission action to raise financial firms' corporate governance standards. these demands include stronger oversight of risks that a firm takes on, high standards of independence and diversity for members of firms' boards, including better gender balance, and, crucially, transparency around pay so shareholders and the public can hold banks to account. as the conservative-led government in the united kingdom has shelved legislation on transparency introduced by the previous labour government, i welcome the inclusion of my proposal to introduce such a requirement at the eu level. labour euro mps opposed the rapporteur's amendments to weaken the committee report, including a lower requirement for representation of women, a slower timetable for action on pay reform and less information on staff pay. the commission must now complete its consultation and swiftly bring forward ambitious proposals to ensure that governance of financial firms will help prevent, not facilitate, future crises.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. any free trade agreement the eu signs with india must in no way limit india’s ability to produce generic medicines. if it did, it would not only damage india but harm the poor in africa and elsewhere who depend on cheap medicine from india.
in writing. − if japan demonstrates a real willingness to eliminate non-tariff barriers, i believe the eu should enter into negotiations with japan with a view to signing a free trade agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this important report. eu forests and other wooded land cover more than 42 % of the eu’s surface area. forests provide livelihoods for millions of workers, entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners. the forest-based industries (fbis) provide more than 2 million jobs, mostly in smes, and have an eur 300 billion turnover. 350 000 people are employed in forest management. in addition, 40% of eu forests are state-owned. the eu ratio of felling to increment is stable at around 60%. this ratio is projected to increase in several countries to over 100%, causing a decline in growing stock after 2020. measures to protect forests are vital. european forests can be grouped in five bioclimatic zones: the boreal, temperate oceanic, temperate continental, mediterranean and mountain zones (5), compatible with the eea’s forest typology, developed to guide policy decisions (6).
in writing. − i voted for this report and take the view that, in order to be consistent with the eu’s own values, eu foreign policy and external action must give priority to promoting democracy and the rule of law, good governance and fair societies, given that a rule-based democratic society is the basis for upholding human rights as well as for enhancing stability. reiterating the position that human rights need to be firmly mainstreamed into eu foreign policy, i believe that the new institutional structure of the eu, with particular reference to the eeas and its dedicated department, offers an opportunity to enhance the eu's coherence and effectiveness in this area; urge the vp/hr to proactively pursue, through bilateral relations with third countries and active participation in international fora, the engagement of third countries in respecting human rights as well as to speak up against human rights abuses and not to refrain from taking adequate measures if they are violated; considering the growing grave violations of freedom of belief, call upon the commission to conduct a thorough evaluation and to mainstream freedom of belief into the eu human rights policy.
in writing. − i voted for this report and particularly welcome calls for increased controls of private security companies through their regulation, licensing, and monitoring.
in writing. − i voted against paragraph 20 because i do not believe that the time is yet ripe for the eu to have a single seat on the united nations security council.
in writing. − i support the uk retaining membership of unsc.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, after two long years of hard work, the novel foods regulation has collapsed in disarray because a suitable agreement on the cloning issue could not be found. throughout the conciliation proceedings, i had warned that the stubborn refusal to compromise would lead to disaster and eventually it did. now we are back to square one, and we have lost a considerable amount of important and beneficial legislation on novel foods. conciliation proceedings are most certainly a useful mechanism in the legislative process, but they become futile and pointless if participants are not prepared to negotiate and to compromise. if the parliament had not been so inflexible, then we would have a much needed update of the rules. now we have to fall back on the 1997 novel foods regulation which is completely outdated. if the european parliament is trying to show that it is a powerful, responsible legislative body which is proud to have achieved the lisbon treaty, i think it flunked its first test. the commission now has to move forward and prepare separate legislation to cover cloning. i only hope that meps will learn from their mistakes and realise that it is the people of europe who suffer if we cannot agree on these key issues.
madam president, the president-in-office of the council spoke about the need not to point a finger of blame, but i think it is time for some intellectual honesty. we all agree, yes, that we should not eat clones, but we all know that nobody is going to eat clones. another big sticking point in the negotiations was the council’s failure to act on the import of embryos and semen into the eu, which allows farmers to breed offspring of clones. those offspring are bred from clones who have suffered to be born. commissioner, is it not true that we have, or soon will have, eu laws which prohibit the placing on the market of products from seals, of dog and cat fur, and of cosmetics which are tested on animals? we have those laws, so why can we not have a law which prohibits the placing on the eu market of products which result from the cruel practice of cloning? i agree with ms liotard. this is not a matter for the world trade organisation: it is a matter of political will, and we can show that, and that is what will satisfy this parliament, and that is the basis for agreement.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have taken careful note of the opinions expressed during the course of this debate. i would like to thank honourable members for their views and assure them once again that the commission will continue to work with parliament, member states and stakeholders from all sectors in pursuit of the common aim of moving forward as fast as possible with both proposals on novel food and cloning. i must stress that the position taken by the commission during the conciliation – and we were advancing various proposals in this regard – was that, as i said before, any solution or any compromise that could be reached had to be implementable. it would be possible to implement, and it would be justified and proportionate. whatever all of us would like to have – and as commissioner responsible for consumers i am all for information to consumers – this must however be evidence-based and we must have an impact assessment. that was our position. the commission has never put forward a position against any type of labelling, but we were saying that every decision we take has to be assessed to ensure the impact it is going to have on our citizens at large, be they producers or be they consumers, and that is the position that i still hold. i can assure you that the commission services and i will pursue this challenge with all determination and energy, and i also assure you, especially mr staes, that i do not put off decisions that need to be taken.
the president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, members of the house. on behalf of the presidency and the council, thank you for the debate. i would like to thank in particular the comments which have confirmed the efforts of the hungarian presidency, which have recognised these efforts. we also welcome the presentation of the arguments made during the conciliation procedure. at the same time, we would like to reject any allegations or suggestions that either the council or the hungarian presidency acted in bad faith or bad faith, or that it was influenced by interest groups. the best thing about the lisbon treaty is that it has increased our shared responsibility. we have tried and we are trying to act in that spirit. we couldn't agree on a deal, so now, in that regard, any product is free to come to our table. this is worse than what the council's last offer would have been. what was that? banning cloned animals and products, tracing and labelling to the first generation of offspring, to the extent that is reasonable, of course. after all, consider the many ingredients in a salami. it's rationalism and pricing that limits it. we would like to say to mrs liotard in particular that the internal council document you refer to was known to the member states, was known to the council and was discussed. he helped us build our position. you quoted a cross-referenced sentence from this document, but you did not mention that the conclusions of the document were that there were risks to wto compatibility. and that, according to those same conclusions, the most acceptable solution is the labelling which was part of the council's last proposal. but i agree with you that we should move on. we hope that scientific research and progress will soon bring us closer to food safety. i'm glad that commissioner dalli has promised to have a new special draft on cloning, on the subject of cloned products, soon.
chairman of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee. - madam president, all the speeches by the previous speakers, and i thank the rapporteur for them, and the documentation presented by the rapporteur herself, in which she stresses that acceptance of our proposals would not have triggered any trade war, have shown - i repeat this without controversy to the hungarian presidency - that there has been no collective failure. there has been a failure, but it concerns a part for which there is a clear responsibility on the part of governments. i do not want to hear that the mere labelling of beef from cloned animals, including their offspring, could be considered an honourable and satisfactory agreement for parliament, because it was little more than a zero agreement. so let us now cast a pitiful veil over all this and look ahead. it is first of all the council's task to bring the governments together, knowing what the positions of parliament are, which are the positions of the european citizens. labelling of products of cloned animals and their offspring: this is the least we can do. work within governments and between governments to accept this minimum. i would also ask commissioner dalli - who i know is very well-intentioned - to submit a commission proposal to us as soon as possible, which would incorporate our views, so that parliament can approve the regulation on cloning. we're also moving forward on nanomaterials, where, you know, the cloning part comes up, you can do it very quickly. one final thought: you have all noted the unity of the european parliament - a substantial unity, three hundred and sixty degrees. during the negotiations you may have made some mistakes, thinking that there was no european parliament's solidarity. it is not the same mistake, because on the sensitive issues of public health we are and will be united.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the small business act (sba) review by bendt bendtsen, on behalf of the ppe group, edit herczog, on behalf of the s&d group, fiona hall, on behalf of the alde group, reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the verts/ale group, giles chichester, on behalf of the ecr group and niki tzavela, on behalf of the efd group (o-000089/2011 – b7-0301/2011),– the oral question to the commission on the small business act (sba) review by bendt bendtsen, on behalf of the ppe group, edit herczog, on behalf of the s&d group, fiona hall, on behalf of the alde group, reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the verts/ale group, giles chichester, on behalf of the ecr group and niki tzavela, on behalf of the efd group (o-000090/2011 – b7-0302/2011).
author. − mr president, the small business act was given a warm welcome by smes, but that was two years ago. it is really important that we now show small businesses that this was not just a piece of paper. on the issue of administrative burden, the target should not be a once-off which we reach and then abandon. it is something we have to keep working on. i am particularly concerned about the situation that micro-businesses find themselves in. it is all right – or it is relatively all right – for a small business of 249 employees that has specialist administrative staff but, for a micro-business with one or two staff, over-regulation can actually make trading impossible. we should not forget that micro-businesses of less than 10 employees actually make up over 90% of all eu businesses. micro-businesses really need to be treated like family units and, in particular, the eu and its member states need to work together to look at how small businesses can be given upfront support for energy efficiency improvements. indeed, the broader question of finance for smes is vital. just before easter, a number of meps from the committee on industry, research and energy went to california to see how investment works in silicon valley. what we discovered was that venture capital was much more available than in europe, and that those who provided it were much more risk-taking in their approach. californian venture capitalists expect nine out of ten investments to fail. the one in ten which succeeds pays for all the rest, but the motto is ‘fail fast’. there is much we can learn about how we could better support our own innovative small businesses in europe. perhaps not least, we should not stigmatise failure but rather use it as a step to success.
author. − mr president, there is a fundamental paradox in eu policy on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). on the one hand there is almost unanimous support for their importance to the economy, to employment, wealth creation, innovation and flexibility, and their overall sheer size within the economy. if positive rhetoric could be converted into orders and cash in the bank then the union’s smes would be in great shape. however, the big challenge – which is addressed in this resolution – is how to convert warm words into useful deeds without just throwing money at smes – money that is not available in today’s economy. on the other hand, the eu combines this positive sentiment with plenty of legislation on employment protection and environmental requirements: legislation which is well-intentioned but all of which bears most heavily on smes, increasing the administrative burden on small business when we should be reducing it. there are many constructive suggestions in this resolution. i particularly like the proposal for combating the practice known in my country as ‘gold plating’, whereby national authorities add layers of regulation to european measures. my personal view, as one who worked in a small business for 25 years, is that actually, while it would be nice to reduce this burden of administration, the best we can do for small businesses is to improve access to information and to finance.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the small business act is precisely what we, as politicians and legislators, should be focusing on as we look for ways of fostering new growth and re-energising our economies. smes make up more than 98% of the businesses in my rural constituency of wales. as public sector jobs in the uk as a whole are becoming less certain, and more of my constituents are, i hope, going to be either setting up or working for small businesses, i fully support and endorse the ambitious targets for reducing the administrative burden on smes, and goals such as the sme test for all legislation. coupled with the ‘one in, one out’ policy for regulation that my own government is operating, these measures should begin to achieve our objective. but now is the time to be bold, to be more ambitious and to achieve more. i have seen so much creativity in wales, as it develops into a hub of activity for new businesses in the highly profitable global gaming world and a centre for cultural excellence with regard to film and programme production, yet i find myself asking questions about how to foster and encourage this development. big projects like the european patent and the digital agenda need to deliver for these small businesses, providing jobs and a future for people in wales and the whole of the eu.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this review’s 10 principles include helping smes to benefit from opportunities of the single market, but the euro zone is collapsing so how can it provide more opportunities? it also wants smes to benefit from the growth in markets. what growth? in september 2009 i asked commissioner andor what specific measures he would introduce to assist smes, following my similar request of him when he spoke to the committee on employment and social affairs on taking up the portfolio. i got no answers then, but now it seems i have some. the review’s five guidelines to reduce pressure on smes include simplifying the rules on vat and reducing the rates, and a directive on late payments, but that that is just tinkering with existing rules and regulations. the first principle of the review – creating a right envionrment – should not mean proposing new rules such as european private companies and state aids. it should mean ripping rules out by the hundred. after all, commission president barroso said in this house in july last year ‘red tape is strangling smes’.
the debate is closedsee minutes. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on developments in the ongoing debt crisis and the eu response.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the sovereign debt crisis will not be solved until the banks are sorted out, and you cannot sort out the banks if regulators’ stress tests refuse to admit that the sovereign debt crisis exists. there is also a public confidence crisis. some countries bailed out their own banks at huge cost to the taxpayers, without any handouts from the eu. i understand why the same public is now asking why they should fund bail-outs in other countries. last week’s proposals for reform in portugal had some positive recommendations for improving competitiveness, but the situation in greece seems dire. euro zone leaders tell us that there is no greek debt restructuring, but since when is a delay of a repayment date not a restructuring? if public lenders extend their maturities, that is not just a shuffling of deckchairs on the titanic: it is taking the public lenders below decks to sink in the ship while the private loan holders are helped away to the lifeboats.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am a baby boomer. i was born just after the war. from that time, we have probably had the longest period of peace and prosperity globally. i have put a little bit of modest money away so that i can hand something down to my family when i pass on – largely because i have never spent more money then i have earned. i have been prudent and i have worked moderately hard. it always seems to me to come as a complete surprise to politicians how countries get in debt. let me explain, because i do not think you really understand. it is because politicians consistently spend more money than they raise in taxation – more money than they can possibly raise in taxation –, most of which, in point of fact, they actually waste. the reason we are talking about countries which are broke – and they are broke – is because their ridiculous, ineffective, ignorant politicians consistently spend more money than they can raise. then they borrow, and they borrow, and – worse – they then print money, because politicians and their central banks have a machine which prints money. if you do that as a private citizen, it is a criminal offence. you would go to prison for that, yet politicians and their central banks do it all the time. let me explain to you that these countries are broke. they are broke because of their own stupid leadership and politicians. it is immoral – immoral! – to ask ordinary taxpayers of any country to pick up the tab for failed politicians and failed banks. they have defaulted. they are broke. for god’s sake, let us all admit it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
absolutely right. i was not suggesting my politicians were any less stupid than anybody else. it is an absolute disgrace, and there was not even a debate in our national parliament on actually rescuing these bust banks. if you want to invest in bust banks do so with your own money, not money from my old age pensioners in yorkshire on gbp 98 a week, you scoundrels!
mr president, the previous speaker said that if greece were to leave the euro zone its currency would collapse, but in that case it would default. however, we know perfectly well that it is going to default anyway, so it has a choice of defaulting within the euro which merely kicks the problem down the road and it will return to bite us, or it can default outside the euro in which case it can solve its problem. so his solution will not work.
mr president, the euro zone imposes a single currency value and standardised interest rates on 17 different economies. if the failing countries had remained outside the euro zone, their currencies would have fallen in value, leading to export-led expansions facilitated by low interest rates that would be set by their central banks. the excessive currency value, and now rising interest rates, have aggravated stagnation, which has brought about falling tax revenues, cuts in services and rising government debts. it would be in their interest to leave the zone, but the fall in the value of their currencies would then increase their debt burden. britain, being outside the euro zone, should be unaffected by these debts, but our previous government underwrote gbp 10 billion worth of debts under the exceptional occurrences clause of the lisbon treaty and the present government will continue to supply loans directly and indirectly. greece and ireland will eventually default on their debts, and we will all be shown to have thrown good money after bad.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we in the ecr group want to see more effective control of the eu budget. on behalf of taxpayers we demand real added value for money spent at eu level. especially in these times of economic stringency, we want a tougher attitude towards spending in general: not more spending but better spending. applying this logic in the committee on employment and social affairs, i am questioning the efficiency of the four agencies which we have been discussing: eurofund, etf, osha and the improbably named cedefop. i recently myself visited etf in turin and also heard a presentation from cedefop while i was there. there is indeed, as earlier speakers have said, considerable overlap between their programmes, and i believe that their management and administration, at least, could usefully be merged. i am therefore asking the following questions. does the commission apply efficiency and performance criteria to these agencies? if so, may we see the criteria? secondly, how do the agencies perform against the criteria? can the commission show parliament an analysis of the agencies’ performance? thirdly, given the considerable functional overlap, has the commission considered merging them? we have heard about synergies; we want to see them. who sets the objectives and strategy of the agencies? may we see them? more generally, there seems to be considerable overlap between reports on employment matters produced on these agencies by the commission and by the policy department of the european parliament. we ask: is this duplication worthwhile?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i too would like to congratulate ms berès for taking the initiative on this oral question and resolution. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his answer. it is all too rare that we get a very specific response from commissioners to questions in an oral question. my group very much welcomes the proposal from the ilo for the convention and the recommendation on domestic workers. we are aware that at least 20 of our own member states have already commented on the draft and been actively involved in this. we look forward to early ratification by those member states and, indeed, some interesting implementation. people have talked very much about how this group of workers is particularly vulnerable. a lot of the work is done behind closed doors; it is invisible. often the workers themselves are isolated, and access to trade unions is often very difficult in this situation. quite often, if you are taken on as a live-in employee, you can be seen as being on call 24/7. we know in this house that on-call working is a very controversial issue and something that we do not particularly welcome. as has been said, domestic work is often undervalued, or seen as traditional women’s work that ‘anybody can do’, but we have also made the point that a lot of it is actually quite skilled. it can quite often involve nursing care and various aspects of child development. domestic workers often occupy a real position of trust. while many employers value that, there are only too many who do not. for example, in the uk we have seen a recent case of somebody actually ending up with a prison sentence on a charge of trafficking for domestic servitude. the young woman involved lost four years of her life to her employer, who received a nine-month sentence. so we need to look at how we identify that form of trafficking. migrant female workers are very vulnerable indeed. we have come across cases, for example, of workers entering the country with diplomats and having their passport taken away; people in that situation have virtually no freedom, have no access to assistance and do not know about their rights. i want to raise one issue concerning article 17 in the proposed convention, which is about the role of agencies. i think this is something that we really should be looking at a european level because, increasingly, it is being seen as a weak link in many of the issues that we are facing.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development for bringing this issue up. i share his concerns at the level of antibiotic resistance being found in bacterial infections of livestock. i agree with him that there should be growing concern that there is evidence of overspill to the human population, where we are finding that the efficacy of many once-reliable antibiotics has declined significantly, thereby putting human health at risk. so i support the intent of the debate. i also agree that the important first step must be to work closely with the various agencies and the pharmaceutical industry in order to monitor and assess the problem. i want to state, however, that, contrary to popular opinion, this is not exclusively a problem brought about by intensive agriculture. the random use of antibiotics in agriculture is – or has been – common to all farming, be it large or small. indeed, i would go further and say that large-scale producers today are usually vertically integrated under contractual terms with the processing sector, and that the prophylactic use of antibiotics is usually prohibited or restricted under quality assurance schemes. however, it is clear that there must be some measure of control, and i look forward to hearing details of the commissioner’s strategy in due course. there are three points that i want to make. firstly, any measures taken must be based on sound scientific evidence; secondly, they must be proportionate; and, thirdly, they should not place a further burden of regulation, and thereby cost, on the agricultural and veterinary industries.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am very pleased indeed to have the opportunity to present my report on early years learning in the european union, which is an extremely important aspect of education that we have not really given much attention to before now. i would particularly like to thank commissioner vassiliou and her cabinet with whom we have worked very closely on this, and also the hungarian presidency, which had early years learning as one of its priorities. this has been a very fruitful partnership all round and has allowed us to do the work reflected in this report. i would also like to thank all the shadows from the other political groups. we have worked extremely well, as mr zver said, on his report, and we adopted the early years learning report in committee unanimously, which just goes to show that there is support across the political spectrum for this. we know why really: one of the main reasons is that early years are so important. early years intervention can make all the difference to children’s life chances, not only as they go through the educational system, but also later on in life. the research which has been done, most of which i am afraid is not within the eu, shows that, if you give children support and what they need when they are young, it helps them in later life: it cuts down on crime, improves health and cuts down on unemployment, therefore benefiting all of us. the children themselves will in most instances achieve better at school, they will get better grades, they will have high employment levels and better employment and their family relationships will be better – as will their health. so we have everything to do on this and it is all beneficial. within the eu there are a variety of types of provision for early years and in my report we have said that we want to respect and maintain that. each member state does it differently, because early years has grown up within their own systems. it is made even more complicated by the fact that the age when school children start statutory education also varies from member state to member state. so we have not been looking at a one-size-fits-all solution, but we have looked to establish values and principles and guidelines for member states to develop a european framework of shared goals and shared values and shared entitlements. so that is what this report is about: it is actually about setting the framework. in order to do that we have, of course, started with the child. we have advocated a very child-centred approach to early years education and care, with the best interests of the child at the heart of this. we have drawn on research from around the world, and my report looks at the following issues: engagement with parents, which is very important for early years for young children; staff and the quality of services and qualifications required; and integrating early years services with the rest of the education systems in member states. so we have covered these key areas, and these are what we should be focusing on in future. staff qualifications are extremely important and they are very lacking in this area. there seems to be a view that anyone can look after little children, while that is actually not the case. we need to think hard about qualifications, and qualifications which can be transferred and recognised across the eu. we also need to look at access, so that all of those who need early years education services can get hold of them. i have finished my four minutes and i want to keep some time for the end of this debate, so i would just like to end by saying that in this time of austerity and times of economic difficulties, we must make sure that early years is still on the agenda and we still do what needs to be done in this important area.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, i have abandoned my prepared text because i have to say something about the proposal to have eu cultural attachés. i could not believe i was hearing it: i have to say that this proposal from the commission is one of the most bizarre and ludicrous ever to come out of a body which is celebrated for its bizarre and ludicrous proposals. eu cultural attachés will simply mean more highly paid non-jobs for favoured eu civil servants paid for by the contributing countries. i have to also say that it is grossly insensitive of the commission to make this ludicrous and expensive proposal for unnecessary cultural attachés at a time of universal economic hardship. perhaps for once you will forget your own gold-plated salaries and gold-plated pensions and think of the reality of what these initiatives cost.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in recent years, academic and political focus on culture and education has increased dramatically, with analysis consistently highlighting these areas to be crucial not only in encouraging economic growth and social cohesion, but also in facilitating mobility for young people across europe. unfortunately, in the current economic climate with many member states adopting austerity measures and budget reductions necessary to reduce deficits, these areas can often appear neglected and i wish this were not the case. investment in education and culture helps member states to compete globally, equipping our young people for the challenges of tomorrow, and encourages creativity, innovation and mutual understanding. however, it is precisely in these areas where the member states, rather than the eu as a whole, can act, and where they know how best to respond to the educational challenges they face. i am concerned with a number of aspects of the reports we have discussed this morning, especially regarding the intrusion on member states’ subsidiarity in terms of educational targets and social policy. it is beyond the competence of the eu to dictate educational reforms to member states, and we must ensure that this is respected. in terms of culture, the eu can assist member states in getting the best out of their policy priorities through exchanges of best practice and highlighting areas of importance, such as early years learning, the reduction of early school leaving and the promotion of vocational training. another key to helping our young people secure opportunities is to allow flexibility in labour markets so that people can learn on the job. however, the arbitrary creation of new projects and organisations to facilitate these goals runs counter to the budgetary realities evident across the eu. we must be mindful of this sad fact and try to deliver what we can for the real world that we face. nonetheless, i am a great believer in the power of culture to ensure mutual understanding and to spur innovation and economic growth. we have a wealth of culture and creativity in europe which needs to be fostered and developed. the creative industries add greatly to the eu’s economy and our cultural experiences. we need to give them the tools to continue their development and gain the rewards they deserve. it goes without saying that, the more we educate our young people across europe, the more the future begins to look brighter in a challenging global environment.
mr president, my own constituency has a long history of combining the promotion of the welsh language to the young generation with artistic and technical talents to produce animated programmes like sally mally, super ted and sam tân. today, this past has been reinvigorated by new productions such as dr who and torchwood, so that wales is quickly becoming known as a centre for cultural excellence with regard to film and programme production, as well as being home to newer creative areas, like the hugely profitable gaming industry. in order for this to continue, the most important thing we must now do is to provide the support that our creative industries need to continue to grow. we must focus on reducing the administrative hurdles that all small businesses face and look at ways to get real added value from the single market via cooperation on intellectual property rights, a european patent and realising the full potential of the digital agenda and, of course, eliminating inconsistencies in existing eu legislation, such as in the field of vat. our eu budget should be used productively to develop the huge amount of creative energy around us into true wealth-creating businesses, providing sustainable jobs and a prosperous and rich future for our people in wales and beyond.
mr president, just when responsible people and governments are watching every penny the commission proposes more expense – youth on the move card, european skills passport, european vacancy monitor – through europe 2020, all for cultural diplomacy and to get young people to travel when they do that already, backpacking their way round the world on their own initiative. what do we need expensive promotions for? as for spreading european culture, well make the most of it, because the way this crazy eu is going there will be none left, just a meaningless mantra: ‘united in diversity’. do you not understand that europe is not a single state but a wide and glorious tapestry of attractive, distinctive but matching cultural panels, and to amalgamate them is to reduce them all to a grey amorphous mass, thereby destroying that which you say you admire? do not push eu culture; make italian, german, french, dutch, british and all the other cultures available for all who want to sample them, and the rest will follow.
mr president, these reports are at best bestrewn with paradoxes and at worst are full of hypocrisy. they talk approvingly of diversity, but welcome the eradication of diversity between nations. the diversity that they promote within member states involves the promotion of the cultures of recent arrivals, which are anything but european. as populations change, so will their cultures. indigenous cultures will be displaced and lost. they talk about freedom of expression but are only convincing when they express their intolerance of those with whom they disagree. they want to promote only cultural values of which they approve; those consistent with so-called ‘european’ values. in the political sphere, we saw on tuesday this parliament’s attitude to freedom of expression when it voted to hand over a member of this house for a show trial in france for a thought-crime offence, without even being given the opportunity to defend himself.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone for the helpful and constructive way that we have conducted this debate today. the overwhelming majority of you, with only one or two notable exceptions, were very much in favour of my report on early years learning and the other reports we debated today. i think we have really put down a marker for the future that education is extremely important. it is not only important for children, for the very young children i have been talking about and the young people that my colleague has been talking about, but it is also important for the future of europe. i therefore strongly support what the commissioner has said, that member states should now continue to invest in education and should not be using the economic climate to make cuts, because making cuts in education would be the worse possible thing to do. education is about our future, it is about having adults who are employable, who are fit, who are healthy, who are not a drain on our social services. we understand that and we have got to convey that message back to our member states so that they can exercise their subsidiarity to make sure that what we have been talking about here is actually put into practice.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
madam president, across europe we are condemning generations of young people to emigration and poverty. we are condemning generations yet unborn and unbegot to debt – all in order to sustain this conceit of monetary union. in ireland, gdp is down 20% from its peak – an almost incredible figure. in greece, we have riots in protest against the austerity package; and yet we know that it is not going to work. when the bail-out was agreed a year ago, the idea was that it would be an immediate stop-gap, that it would be a short-term contingent measure, and that by now greece would be borrowing cheaply again as the crisis would have passed. we can see that it has failed. however, we are continuing with the same policy in portugal and in greece again, rather than admit our mistake. what a high price we expect our constituents to pay for our conceit!
madam president, last summer i had the pleasure of visiting your constituency, and one day i took my children to the beach. i remember watching my two little girls building a sand castle, oblivious to the incoming tide, so captivated were they with the shells and twigs with which they were decorating their work. i had not the heart to point out to them that the tide was coming in, and today i felt rather the same way as i read through our voting list. we have these epochal events – this economic crisis on our border, this collapse in our share of world gdp – and here we are talking about early years learning, about our responsibilities to the international labour organization, and about whether sarajevo should be a european city of culture. let me give you the raw and scary statistics: in 1974, the nations of western europe accounted for 36% of world gdp; today it is 26%; in 2020 it will be 15%. while we are worrying about early years learning, putting out all our propaganda about drawing europe together, and producing the raspberry ice cream war, and while our children are being encouraged to read the unintentionally hilarious ‘captain euro’, our part of the world is being overtaken by more virile countries that have learned the benefits of decentralisation and the dispersal of power. surely the time is coming when all our pomp of yesterday will be one with nineveh and tyre?
madam president, supporters of the common fisheries policy often point out that fish do not recognise national borders. they tend to tell you this as though it is an original insight – oh really, they swim around, well who would have thought it! yet the reality is that territorial jurisdiction and property rights are the only secure basis for conservation. if you look at the countries that have pursued successful conservation policies in fisheries – whether it is the falkland islands, iceland, norway, new zealand – all of them have done so on the basis of giving skippers a sense of ownership so that they have an incentive to treat fisheries as a renewable resource. it is the basic wisdom of aristotle that that which nobody owns, nobody will care for. unfortunately, the common fisheries policy defines fish stocks as a common resource to which all nations have equal access. hence the ecological calamity which has befallen stocks in the north sea. one point which is particularly timely is that we have seen in recent years a migration of mackerel from common fisheries policy waters into iceland territorial waters. that, i am afraid, makes them icelandic property. there is no point in complaining about this. it is our bad luck and their good luck. it may happen that it comes the other way round in a few years time, then it will be our good luck. in the meantime the best and surest way to ensure that we treat fish as a supply that is always going to be there is to recognise the ownership rights of the people who have the water under maritime law.
mr mitchell, i am going to ask you a question. could you tell us what those initials stand for?
i felt sure that our visitors would appreciate knowing what we were talking about. (applause)
this item concerns explanations of vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report. youth on the move (yom) is one of seven flagship initiatives contained in the commission’s europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. yom comprises 28 key actions and concrete measures to increase the education and training of young people through mobility and ease their transition from education into the labour market. this is particularly important today as young people, being one of the social groups hit hardest by the global financial crisis and simultaneously having had the smallest role in causing it, must be supported in entering the labour market in order to secure their own futures, as well as to bolster the economy. young people are tomorrow’s decision-makers, and it is vital that they are able to develop the competences, skills and knowledge today that will allow them actively to contribute to the growth and sustained future of the european union over the coming years and achieve the goals set out in the eu’s growth strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because ensuring that young citizens can travel and work throughout the eu is essential in order to boost competitiveness. eu 2020 objectives can be achieved by investing in programmes that provide young people with a wide variety of opportunities and promote labour market mobility. by increasing the funding for projects that support youth mobility and increasing the focus on the cooperation between business and education, young europeans will have a better chance of career success. it is also vitally important to support young people who are no longer in mainstream education by encouraging non-formal and informal education.
in writing. − i voted for this report. in 2002, the barcelona european council called for eu members to provide childcare to at least 90% of children between the age of three years and mandatory school age by 2010, and to at least 33% children under three. these targets signalled a labour market approach to ecec services, based on the need identified at the time of increasing the numbers of women in work. while it is vital to give due attention to the link between ecec services and equality of opportunities for women, these targets are clearly problematic, and outmoded, since they fail to take into account many of the crucial qualitative aspects of a strong early education policy. ecec centres are not simply a place to ‘park’ children so that women can work; they are of utmost importance in contributing to the well-being of children and improving their future life chances
in writing. − i support this report as it is important to recognise the valuable contribution of early childhood education and how crucial it is to achieving the eu’s 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted for this report, and in doing so urge the commission to ensure that fishing activities that fall under the fisheries partnership agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as fishing activities in eu waters. the report, moreover, calls on mauritanian authorities and the commission to ensure that strict sustainability criteria are respected by all vessels exercising fishing activities in mauritanian waters (either from the eu, mauritania or third countries).
in writing. − i supported this resolution as i believe the specific issue of safeguarding equal treatment and fair competition on public procurement markets in the eu and in third countries urgently needs more political attention.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i do not believe the eu should increase subsidies for the european fisheries sector or any other sector on the basis of a rise in oil prices.
in writing. − i welcome the commission review of the sba and expresses support for the new proposals focused on further improving access to finance, enhancing market access and continuing debureaucratisation through strengthened governance and monitoring and through smart regulation and measures such as the sme performance review
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which warns against too much bureaucracy and red tape for smes. the 23 million smes in the eu provide over 100 million jobs and make a huge contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. we need to make sure that these vital businesses are not hampered by red tape and bureaucracy, and i agree that the eu needs to renew its efforts to reduce administrative burdens. i am pleased that almost all legislative proposals under the small business act have been adopted but urge member states to implement the revised late payments directive without delay. the resolution also outlines the energy savings potential that smes have – currently only 24% of smes are engaged in actions to reduce their environmental impact-energy efficiency; if smes applied cost-effective energy efficiency measures, they could reduce their energy bills and increase reinvestment.
in writing. − i voted for this report. joining forces to innovate so as to solve common problems in europe means more focus, more rapid development, efficiency, including cost-efficiency, and greater creativity. the innovation union is intended not only to provide an answer to shared problems facing our societies but at the same time to increase europe’s competitiveness and point to ways out of the economic crisis.
in writing. − i support this report as it is key to the post-crisis recovery and to addressing the major challenges in society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the innovation union can help to address today’s societal challenges. it is also essential in increasing competitiveness as the eu overcomes the economic crisis. i agree with the report that member states should make use of the structural funds to support research, development and innovation (r&d&i) objectives that target social challenges, with the aim of increasing prosperity in europe. enhancing cross-border cooperation is also imperative, as is encouraging citizens to create innovative new businesses. this can be achieved by cutting red tape and establishing a simple and coherent system that focuses on societal challenges.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘considers that the problem of undeclared work needs to be tackled; states that the domestic work sector is characterised by a high level of informality and undeclared work, that many migrant workers are employed in this sector, and that their rights are often violated; further, considers it essential to combat precarious work in general, given that this problem affects migrant workers in particular, thus worsening their already vulnerable position’.
in writing. − this resolution recognises that antimicrobials, when used properly, are a useful tool to help farmers keep their livestock healthy and productive and to ensure the animals’ well-being. however, it also acknowledges the need for tight control and monitoring, and i was therefore able to vote for it.
in writing. − i voted for this report. europe is a community of freedom, responsibilities and democratic values. culture, identity, values and the eu’s position on the global stage are intertwined. european interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically devised through cooperation and partnership: both through cultural programmes and when cultural aspects are an integral part of economic, foreign and security and development policies. through the sharing of literature, film, music and heritage, doors of understanding are opened and bridges between people are built. european identity in all its diversity, as well as european values. are manifested through these cultural expressions. in addition, the eu has important experiences to share when it comes to overcoming conflict and building stability through shared interest and mutual understanding.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe this is a good time for the commission’s green paper, officially endorsing the economic and social importance of the sector, to prompt discussion on ‘unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries’. the growth of cultural and creative industries in the european union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and of their contribution to gdp.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the council to award the title ‘european capital of culture’ exceptionally to sarajevo in 2014. i believe that awarding the title to a city which was the site of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century would be an important step towards transcending past european divisions and showcasing the new europe.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
author. − mr president, we only have to hear those opening remarks to understand why i very much regret that we are having this debate today. it is being promoted by extremist elements in the tamil diaspora, the same people who have helped sustain the ltte terrorist campaign over many years through political activity, and often from the proceeds of crime. of course, the final stages of the ltte campaign were awful. the un’s darusman report, which is the immediate pretext for this debate, states clearly that in those final stages the ltte used the civilian population as human shields, intensified the forcible recruitment of civilians, including children, into its ranks, executed civilians who attempted to escape the conflict zone and deployed artillery in proximity to displaced civilians and civilian installations such as hospitals. this does not excuse the shelling of civilian targets, but it does put it into context and shows where the blame lies. instead of trying to bring together the peoples of sri lanka, there are those who seek to continue a campaign of hatred and division. they see this darusman report as a weapon in this campaign, and just want to put the sri lankan government in the dock. this approach is malicious and counter-productive. the government of sri lanka and the commission have set up the llrc to investigate human rights allegations. let us do all that we can to support them and the peoples of sri lanka, instead of attacking them.
mr president: i heard it directly in french and the word used was ‘génocide’, which means ‘genocide’, and that has a particular significance in international law. if such were the intent of the sri lankan government, how come they have just released 200 000 tamils who were prisoners? it is absurd to accuse the sri lankan government of genocide. i would hope that the member would retract that statement.
mr president, the previous speaker mentioned that she is calling for some sort of commission to go to sri lanka to look at what is going on on the ground there. could i just remind her that the south asia delegation has just been to sri lanka – and i see several members of that delegation in the chamber. indeed, my colleague mr mann referred to the visit there: the previous speaker is obviously not listening to what is going on in this debate. people have been to sri lanka. they know sri lanka and they know what is going on. i do not know where ms delli is getting all this nonsense from.
mr president, many in this chamber have been involved in the politics of sri lanka, and indeed the politics of the diaspora of sri lanka and of the tamil community. what we are discussing today is a report by the secretary-general’s panel of experts on accountability in sri lanka. i have not heard anyone in the chamber as yet cast doubts on the intrinsic integrity of that report. i have read the report and i have spoken to many about the report on both sides. if we are saying that we should leave the report on the table, and we should not have investigations into what happened between january and may, and indeed not open the door to investigate many allegations on both sides, what is the point of a report of this nature? indeed, i find it compelling that one diaspora organisation of the tamil community, the global tamil forum, has said that credible allegations against the ltte – and they have made this very prominent – should also be investigated. we have a report which ought to have a follow-up, and i speak firmly in favour of the need for a genuine process of accountability which would bring truth, justice and reconciliation to sri lanka following what will be a painful investigation, but an investigation which must happen.
mr president, this well-researched report shows us – in addition to all its conclusions – that, once again, the first casualty of war is truth. what it fails to do is to outline the policies needed to heal the hurts of that nation. too many countries for too long turned a blind eye to what was going on. the right policies are needed now, through a concerted effort by the international community, to seek release and justice for all of those who have been so terribly affected.
mr president, finally sri lanka is enjoying peace after a quarter of a century of terrorist insurgency, and the un report on the sri lankan army’s defeat of the tamil tigers is heavy on criticism and light on substantive, proven facts. the approach taken in the report seems to be undermining the efforts now undertaken by the government of sri lanka to promote truth and understanding, not least through the lessons learnt and reconciliation commission, and the government actually having released more than 200 000 detained tamil prisoners. of course, any deliberate atrocities against civilians by the military must be punished. i agree with that, but there is no clear evidence that this was deliberate government policy. i would like to remind the house that the ltte refused a supervised international surrender offer and preferred instead to choose a bloodbath as their kind of exit strategy, which was appalling. the consequences now of the international community’s ambivalence towards sri lanka are clear: a loss of influence and an inability to shape developments. meanwhile, china has stepped into the breach and become sri lanka’s closest friend and defender at the un. i hardly need remind colleagues here of china’s approach to human rights.
author. − mr president, azerbaijan is, regrettably, a one-party, semi-authoritarian state where political opposition to the dynastic rule of the aliyev family is barely tolerated. last december‘s elections predictably delivered an overwhelming majority for heydar aliyev’s new azerbaijan party. in response, the osce stated that the conduct of these elections overall was not sufficient to constitute meaningful progress in the democratic development of that country. the osce’s report went on to say that freedom of expression was limited and that normal political discourse was almost impossible, partly because of tight constraints on the media. now we are hearing new reports about the targeting of opposition parties and journalists. this is nothing new, but it is good from time to time in this house to remind ourselves of the true nature of the aliyev regime. after all, this is a country which, like all eu countries, enjoys membership of the council of europe and is part of our eastern eu partnership. supposedly, azerbaijan is committed to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the truth is quite different. azerbaijan spends countless petro-dollars trying to convince outsiders of the benign nature of the regime but i, for one, am not fully taken in.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i venture to suggest that were azerbaijan known as azeria, as with georgia and armenia, european citizens’ concern for democratic standards there would be higher. however, my group cannot share mr vigenin’s view. the media in azerbaijan is not free. its elections are not fair. its people are subject to arbitrary and sometimes violent treatment by officials. peaceful demonstrations in recent weeks have met with repression more common to an arab than to a european country, from an 18-year-old regime which has slowly stifled hope of progress. this country’s continued participation in the european neighbourhood policy must be made conditional on democratic reforms rather than on its willingness to supply oil for the nabucco pipeline.
author. − mr president, i will be talking about belarus and not hungarian domestic politics. it is 20 years since the soviet union collapsed, but for president lukashenko of belarus it is as if nothing has changed at all. political repression is as rife as it ever was in the soviet days, and lukashenko’s secret police – provocatively still called the kgb – are used as its enforcers. as we remember from the post-election protests in december last year, lukashenko is intolerant of dissent and seems to take pleasure in using violence and intimidation against pro-democracy activists. as this resolution today illustrates in graphic detail, lukashenko has intensified his campaign for persecution and harassment against those who dare challenge his iron-fisted rule. we call on him to end this futile crackdown, to release all political prisoners and instead to restore belarus to the path of genuine, pluralist, multi-party democracy. at last week’s constitutive session of the euronest parliamentary assembly, representatives from belarus were rightly missing. belarus is the missing piece of europe’s democratic jigsaw puzzle, and i long for the day when it rejoins the european family.
mr president, speaking on behalf of véronique de keyser, i should like to move an oral amendment to paragraph 13, which would read:‘calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the council and the commission to support further efforts to strengthen the process of accountability in sri lanka and to support the un report, in particular the immediate establishment of an international justice mechanism’.
mr president, we had long-drawn-out negotiations involving six political groups on this particular resolution. it is a compromise resolution and obviously it contains elements that many of us wish were not in it, and indeed it excludes elements that many of us wish were in it. but the agreement among the six political groups was that there would be no amendments – oral, written or in any other form – and therefore i think it is a breach of the understanding, and makes a nonsense of the negotiations, if we now have an amendment put forward in this way. we should therefore reject this amendment.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, a regulation on the european environmental economic accounts sounds very boring but, in my experience, that makes it the most dangerous kind of eu legislation, because you think that the taxpayer and the media will not bother to read it. let us be frank. this is about – and i quote – ‘air emissions and environmental taxes’, just as the last speaker said. so the sovietisation of the eu continues. the men with clipboards and the statistical spies from eurostat want more data and – let us be honest – you want this data to tax and control, which explains your thirst for ever more statistics. the worst thing of all is that this is a regulation, not a directive. regulations are far worse than directives because they pass into uk law and bypass the uk parliament. this is very dangerous and, my friends, this is the way democracy dies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, let me make the first point. the fact of the matter is that this place likes to control things from the centre. let us also make another point, that none of the commissioners are actually elected by the people. democracy matters for the whole of europe so, yes, i do believe that we are seeing a sovietisation of europe. the fact of the matter is that these decisions should be taken at member state level. the fact that regulations can bypass my own parliament, can bypass the people who were elected by the british people, is an absolute disgrace and, yes, it is the sovietisation of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in today’s uncertain economic climate it is more important than ever that the global institutions set up to ensure financial and economic stability, which many countries around the world are dependent upon, are not used to make symbolic political statements. the imf is not a symbol but a working institution that needs someone at the head of it who has a strong understanding of the financial markets, the necessary skills gained from managing a large economy and the ability to communicate tough decisions to the general public. the strength of christine lagarde’s candidacy is not that she is a european, but that she is a hugely competent individual who has shown remarkable leadership qualities throughout the financial crisis. as the primary role of the imf is to work on conditional structural reform packages to accompany the distribution of funds to members when they are in dire straits, i believe that ms lagarde has shown that she is well able to broker complex agreements on controversial issues, successfully bringing together disparate parties to reach a beneficial solution. we must not get caught up in the prism of today’s euro zone crisis but look to what problems the imf may face in the future. i believe that ms lagarde has the necessary skills and track record to lead the imf during this period of economic turbulence and to steer a path of reform at the imf to ensure its continued relevance for generations to come. turning to the matter of euro zone representation on international bodies, as financial markets do not respect national boundaries it is hugely important that global institutions work effectively to coordinate national policy. while i am in favour of more coordination, efficiency and the linking up of policies to avoid regulatory gaps, i believe that the eu must not lose its diverse set of voices in international institutions. the crisis has shown the huge differences between the economies of the eu even within the euro zone, let alone the differences between non-euro-zone countries as well. all of our countries have been affected in different ways in the current crisis and we have different experiences. a single voice is not as strong as a multitude of voices singing in harmony.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i would like to say to commissioner rehn that i have been looking at the imf charter. there is nothing here that will surprise you; it is there to promote balance, growth, exchange rate stability, to lessen disequilibrium and to help countries that are in trouble. the classic method uses is to shore up the finances and organise a competitive devaluation. nowhere in here does it say that the imf is there to support political experiments and, in so many ways, that is what dominique strauss-kahn did. he used the imf to help bail out the failing euro project and, as such, he was a very poor choice of candidate. now you want to compound that by approving christine lagarde – another member of the european political elite, another euro fanatic, somebody else who believes in propping up this euro project – and i would have thought that, as she has got a vested interest, she is in fact a highly unsuitable candidate. it is as if the eu has hijacked the imf, that it is now there as part of the support mechanism for the euro, so that it is not just the taxpayers of the euro zone and the non-euro zone eu members, but the whole world that now has to help prop up the euro as the greek problem compounds by the day. well, i suppose in some ways you may well need mrs lagarde because not only is greece going bust, not only are we heading for the fourth bail-out, but as i have warned before in this assembly, the validity of the european central bank itself will very shortly be called into question. i have warned that you cannot go on buying your own bad debt, but we have reached the point where, within weeks, we may well see that the ecb itself is not solvent, so perhaps your friend mrs lagarde can help bail that out as well. i would have thought this is a very poor choice. the international community at some point will tell you where to get off – perhaps not just quite yet.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, research and innovation are key to delivering growth and to meeting our biggest challenges. i have seen much excellent research funded by european grants, both in collaborative projects with industry and across borders, and in individual grants to expert scientists. however, europe’s framework programme has a reputation for being the most bureaucratic in the world. commissioner, i still think you can do more for simplification. money is tight and funds must get rapidly to the scientists in the lab, and not just to those who fill in the forms and check the accounts. not every bid can be financed, and in the world of research added value is, of course, difficult to measure, but i do not believe that a common european system for evaluating performance is the only way forward. we need scientists who compete with the best in the world and they should be evaluated on the world stage. we also must not compromise that principle of excellence. the european research council, for example, has done much to support individual scientists. if their mandate is changed to support team-based projects, this must not be to the detriment of supporting individuals of excellence. i would like to see more money for research but there is no bottomless bank account. i, and my group, cannot support doubling the eu budget in one area without a commitment to showing where that money can come from elsewhere. we would instead like to see public money work more intelligently, both alongside private investment and through better public procurement.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. as they both said, research and innovation is important for the future of the european economy. i certainly know that there are many universities in wales, for example, which will take advantage of european funding. therefore i think that it is important that we all support adequate funding for research and innovation in the eu budget; we should not say we support it in this meeting and vote against it in the budget meetings. on the key issues raised this afternoon, of course we would all support simplification, such as a common set of rules. i am aware, however, of some concerns about always using flat rates and lump sums, so i believe we should be looking for some flexibility and discretion in those areas. i would also argue that we should focus on performance. but while performance is important, research and innovation does mean we also have to accept some risk- taking as well, and we cannot rule that out. finally, i would also support the proposal to create better links between universities and businesses so that we can take advantage of all the research and development undertaken.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for this report and my thanks also to the commissioner who recently paid a visit to my constituency of northern ireland, where i know she saw some excellent examples of research and innovation. the northern ireland economy is a small and medium-sized enterprise economy – 97% of all businesses can be classified in this way – yet it is an economy that lags behind other regions of the united kingdom and europe in drawing down money from the framework programme. bureaucracy is cited as the main difficulty and many small businesses are simply more concerned about keeping open the door than they are about the long-term benefits of the research and innovation programme. i believe that the example shown by the aerospace industry in northern ireland is a significant one – larger companies mentoring and helping smaller companies to actually access the programme – and i would use this opportunity to call upon the commissioner to provide us with radical and new ways for small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from this very important programme.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, my group can see many benefits in an ambitious, comprehensive, economic trade agreement with canada. however, we have four red lines. firstly, on the extraction of oil sands, which damages local diversity, we insist on the eu’s right to use the fuel quality directive to inhibit their use. i was pleased to hear what the commissioner had to say on that matter. secondly, we find it hard to imagine parliament approving a trade deal with canada while canada pursues a challenge, through the wto, on the eu’s trade ban. here i cannot accept the commissioner’s point of view that we should keep the two matters separate. i think they are linked in the eyes of the voters, and they are linked in my eyes. i would certainly not vote for an agreement unless this dispute is settled before we reach the final stages of this deal. thirdly, we would not be able to accept any limitation on canada’s ability to use the trips flexibilities to export cheap generic medicines to developing countries. this is an important source of generics for developing countries, and we should not bow to pressure from the pharmaceutical industry to make it more difficult for canada to provide generic medicines. fourthly, we cannot accept a deal that does not address the different standards and preferences from local smes and state monopolies in canada. this was a point that mr papastamkos was making about the difference between provincial and federal regulations. they must be dealt with before this agreement comes to conclusion. that said, if we find that the final text deals with these issues and is ambitious in reducing tariffs on eu spirits, on eu machinery, on eu automobiles and other areas, we will be happy to back such a free trade agreement. but we do insist that the four items i have mentioned are red lines and have to be dealt with properly in these negotiations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as others have mentioned, canada is indeed a solid trading partner for the eu. the abolition of the tariffs now being negotiated in the ceta framework is, on the whole, acceptable to our group. but sadly, ceta does come up with some other demands and political goals which we find deeply worrying. i will mention two of the most troublesome, the first being the negative list in the negotiations on trade liberalisation. normally, in negotiating ftas, you name the services that you are ready to liberalise. but under these proposals, all services are open, except those specifically excluded at the outset. as greens, we think there are some services, particularly those dealing with the general public interest, which are too sensitive and too potentially vulnerable to be negotiated under this ‘negative list’ approach. we have lodged some amendments and we are looking forward to some support from fellow members. the other area of concern is around procurement. we are concerned about the impact that ceta will have on procurement. to give just one example, the ontario green energy act would be illegal under ceta. that act promotes the production and feeding of renewable energies and directs investments into local economies. that is just one example of how ceta will interfere with domestic policy in canada. although canada is one of our oldest trading partners, we cannot deny that occasionally we do have differences of opinion. canada is, for instance, opposed to the eu’s gmo policies. it is starting wto action against the eu import ban on seals, in addition to its barbaric annual seal cull, and do not forget that it is fighting the eu fuel quality directive to protect its exports of tar sands to the eu. i believe that it is important that we voice all these concerns and urge the commission to remain firm in the principles and policies of this place.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, for the commission and parliament here to seek to use a proposed trade agreement with canada to influence that country’s internal affairs is simply wrong. if the canadian government considers that it is environmentally acceptable and economically advantageous to develop their tar sands, that is entirely a matter for them. indeed we should all welcome this enhancement and diversification of global energy. as far as the british national interest is concerned, the coalition government consistently neglects trade relations with the commonwealth, of which canada is a founder member. to paraphrase the commentator ruth lea: because the trade commissioner negotiates trade deals for the whole of the eu, the brutal truth is that eu membership constrains britain’s economic prospects.
madam president, it is the intention of the commission to set default values for the use of tar sands – not just from canada, but from any source, including venezuela, for example – for the purpose of reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels, as required by the fuel quality directive. there has been extensive lobbying by canada to try to prevent us doing this. i have met the alberta energy minister, who has been doing the rounds, as i am sure others have too. canada has also been lobbying member states, and there has been the threat that canada will take us to the world trade organisation if such an arrangement is introduced. we have to tell canada to back off. canada is making a great deal of money out of exploiting its tar sands but it also made commitments under the kyoto protocol to reduce its co2 emissions, and it has reneged on those commitments because of the financial benefits it is getting from tar sands. we do not want a dispute with canada but we have to insist that we will not shrink from facing inconvenient truths.
madam president, i wanted to speak about the role that sport can play in increasing economic prosperity in our regions. in wales i see rugby and other major sporting events boosting the economy of cardiff. another boost will come following the wonderful achievement of swansea city football club – and i say this for the benefit of my colleague richard howitt – who have just deservedly reached the premier football league after a fantastic season. i pay tribute to the manager, players, directors, staff and fans who have made promotion possible. they will be a credit to the premier league, to wales, and will give a much needed boost to the local economy, as fans, tourists and, hopefully, businesses come to the region. finally, i hope the eu recognises the importance of sport, both economically and socially, and will provide funds to boost sport at all levels, particularly as, since the lisbon treaty, the eu now has competence in the field of sport for the first time.
mr president, yes i agree, it is very important that we have independent economic impact assessments of eu regulations. these place a very significant cost on business, on the economy and of course on the pockets of ordinary citizens. now i recently published the latest addition of my periodic study, ‘how much does the european union cost britain?’, which is available on my website. just one element of these costs is, of course, eu over-regulation. now using the government’s own figures – the uk government’s own figures – the open europe think-tank calculates the cost of just the top 99 directives currently in force at over gbp 20 billion per annum. in 2006, commissioner günter verheugen put the cost of eu regulation at an average of 3.5% of gdp; 3.5% of the uk’s gdp is almost gbp 49 billion per annum. this is a staggering burden on business and on consumers. independent impact assessment should, of course, be carried out at the national level but, outside of the european union, britain would be free to decide its own level of regulation and it would certainly not be gbp 49 billion per annum.
mr president, i congratulate richard falbr on the comprehensive approach to international labour standards in his report. i have been pleased to contribute to his work on the specific question of corporate social responsibility. tonight this gives us a chance to influence the commission in advance of its csr communication by asking it firstly to maintain the open definition of csr latterly adopted by it in the multi-stakeholder forum; to return to the principle of convergence in private and voluntary csr initiatives, which was its former policy; to make concrete proposals for implementing global csr standards, specifically the updated oecd guidelines on multinational enterprises and the new ruggie framework on business and human rights; to commit to the principle of integrated financial, environmental, social and human rights reporting by business – indeed paving the way towards the possibility of future legislation in this area; and to advance the responsibility of european businesses in their global supply chain, responding to the governance gaps identified in the commission’s own recent edinburgh study. parliament always likes to help the commission, ms reding. i hope these suggestions help tonight.
rapporteur. – mr president, we have been talking about european contract law for over a decade; now is the time for action, and if ever there was a time when the internal market needed a boost in terms of additional transactions, it is now. the committee on legal affairs favours an optional instrument, a second eu contract law for all citizens and enterprises. we believe it could help. but we have said that there will be tough criteria for the next step. there must be a high level of consumer protection, higher than in many of our member states. it must be easy and user-friendly for smes; it must give them a badge of honour to conduct their business under this optional contract and there must be no detriment to national law. the process must be evidence-based, impact-assessed and with full parliamentary involvement, and on that basis, as i have said, the time for talking is over and we need to move forward. there are those who are nervous and say, well, let us just use the idea of a toolbox. can i say to those who have that idea, be very careful, because i have a suspicion that a toolbox without an optional instrument is potentially actually more invasive of national law than a toolbox with an optional instrument that is voluntary, that respects the autonomy of the parties and is not detrimental to national law. let us see something, as we move forward, that offers preventative justice for eu citizens and small businesses; that really gives us an instrument which means justice for growth. enough talking, now let us move on.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, you are right that this is a public health issue, a very serious one, and our focus should now be on caring for the sick and identifying the source, but then we have to look to the long term and find out how we stop it happening again. a few weeks ago i met a representative of the us food and drug administration. she was telling me about the problems of e coli in fruit and vegetables in the united states and we discussed how this was not common in the european union. now we have had this outbreak, so we have to ask ourselves some questions. is it about our farming practices, as peter liese just mentioned? is it about intensive farming, hot-housing fruit and vegetables? is it about overuse of antibiotics in livestock? is it about manure spreading? would more accurate food labelling have helped us to identify more quickly the source of the contamination? i note that the council is not here today, but the council is resisting proper country of origin labelling on our foods. i hope they will listen to this debate in the future. so, commissioner, we need to investigate thoroughly for the longer term and we need to learn lessons and integrate them into our policies. too often we hear from this commission and from many in this house about over-regulation, but, as with the banks, i am starting to wonder whether we tend to put the needs of market and supply chains ahead of those of public protection and the consumer. ‘business as usual’ is not going to be good enough. it is not normal that people in europe go out for a salad and die as a consequence, and we need policy change to address this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would also like to express my sympathy to those who have been affected. concerning those who have lost their lives: you cannot bring back a life. we can probably put the underlying situation right in the longer term, but it shows how wrong it is to jump to conclusions at a very early point. i can understand the anger – if there is anger and i am sure there is – from the spanish side and from those who have lost their business. we can probably do something to recompense that, but you cannot give back a life. we have got to learn from this and to ensure that in future we have a solid base for response, as the commissioner has said. we have to find a resolution as quickly as possible to the present situation, and in the long term we have got to improve our response mechanisms to this type of situation. i suppose it is very easy with hindsight to talk about what could or should have been done or what we did not do, but now, with the benefit of that hindsight, we could put mechanisms in place to ensure that this never happens again. the commissioner is right. we must learn from the lessons of this. you must always learn from the lessons of your mistakes. if mistakes have been made, let us put them right and ensure that it never happens again.
mr president, first it was cucumbers, yesterday it was bean sprouts. today it is not bean sprouts. the truth is that the experts just do not know, but each time such allegations are made they destroy livelihoods in countries’ economies. what we do know is that there is something very strange about this outbreak. there is an unnatural combination of strains and dna in the virus. it is affecting unusual groups of people in a way not normally associated with e coli outbreaks. it has already struck far more people and in far more places than a normal outbreak and, unlike in normal outbreaks, it has not been rapidly traced to one or two food suppliers. given all these inexplicable factors and the fact that various countries – including britain, the usa, iraq and israel – have, in the past, been reported as experimenting with genetically manipulated e coli as a biological weapon, should there not be an urgent inquiry into the possibility that this outbreak is in fact an instance of, and perhaps a test run for, biological terrorism?
mr president, hearsay can be dangerous. did this outbreak start in germany or some other member state? rumours can be destructive and can even help spread an outbreak. there are still many unanswered questions surrounding this outbreak. the only sure thing is that most member states have reported cases of the bacteria. to date we have 22 deaths in the eu. this outbreak demonstrates the importance of cross-border cooperation in the field of preventive health. it also brings into play the importance of having a european agency such as the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) to monitor, collaborate and inform the member states. we are relatively lucky in the uk to have had only three reported cases, but that is today: tomorrow things could change, and we must be vigilant. in addition to finding the cause of the outbreak, we need to keep the public informed and therefore protected. ecdc is publishing daily updates. through cooperation we can control this outbreak. if our citizens are informed, they stand a better chance of avoiding infection. above all, we need to be calm and measured in our response.
mr president, this is a real crisis. 23 people are dead, over 2 000 have been affected, the vegetable markets are in turmoil with prices on the floor, and it is estimated that producers are losing eur 300 million a day. relations between germany and spain are strained to say the least, and yet, three weeks into this crisis, we still have no idea of where the source of this contamination has come from. commissioner dalli, i want assurance from you here today that absolutely every effort is being made to trace where the source of this e coli outbreak has come from, because until we trace the source we cannot start the process of rebuilding consumer confidence. secondly, i want you to spell out what actions you intend to take once we get over this crisis to stabilise the market and rebuild consumer confidence. thirdly, we do have to hear from you what the commission intends to do to try and compensate farmers who, through no fault of their own, have seen their markets destroyed and are unable to sell their produce. fourthly, i want an assurance from the commission that a transparent, independent investigation will be set up to establish the facts of what went wrong. it is only once we have the facts that we can take action to plug any gaps in food safety law.
mr president, with 22 people dead in the eu and over 2 000 taken in for treatment as a result of the ongoing e coli outbreak across europe, it is appropriate that this parliament extends its sympathies to those who have lost loved ones and our good wishes for a recovery to others. consumers demand food that is of good quality, safe and traceable. the fact that the source of this outbreak is still unclear and that the search for answers has at times seemed haphazard means that consumer confidence is eroding fast. economically, it is farmers who will suffer while this goes on – farmers whose food is perfectly safe. we must also urge calm in such a situation. national governments have been quick to apportion blame. in the past we in the uk have suffered as a result of such scaremongering around our produce, and this speculative blame game must stop. can i also say that this house constantly rushes to introduce regulation. before it does so we must have a full and thorough investigation of the facts.
mr president: so the eu seeks to raise eu revenue by taxation on trucks? well, i ask uk voters what they think of the eu and the usual answer is ‘i do not think we should join’. the uk has been politically taken over. uk law is made in strasbourg, a monster red-tape factory is closing industry, and now we have tax but, because it is not football, the people are not informed. the uk media avoid eu reality, brains are fed with tv soaps and reporters say the eu does not affect local issues. the eu is not news. this report seeks to raise tax from tolls on trucks, partly funding the trans-european ten-t project, which includes linking high-speed eu trains. so, when the eu raises taxes in the uk, will the people respond by kicking the eu in the ballot box? no, because they are not informed. the final eu superstate takeover by stealth will be a taxpayers’ sleepwalk into europe. the defences are down, the press do not care and the uk is asleep, so get those unfortunate truckers taxed.
mr president, hgv haulage is integral to the supply process essential to a good economy. if added charges are levied across europe the extra cost is ultimately filtered to the consumer. the uk government is looking into hgv charges to bring us in line with europe by 2015. we do not have a network of toll roads, nor do we lay additional charges on heavy goods vehicles after road tax. we face unfair competition from an increasing number of foreign trucks taking up more than their fair share of cross-border haulage. foreign operators pay nothing to use our roads but uk diesel duty is as much as 23 pence a litre higher, giving competitors a 15% advantage. however, under eu law the uk cannot introduce a charge applicable only to foreign vehicles. if this directive expands its capabilities, any move by the uk government to introduce hgv charges will be overshadowed by an unwanted indirect tax which the commission also reserves the right to make obligatory in 2013. as the proposals relate to taxation it should require unanimity at council level, yet the legislation is being ushered in via the transport provision of lisbon. it is an underhand way of introducing indirect taxation and should not be voted through by anybody with a democratic bone in their body.
mr president, the proposed directive might be the last straw to break the back of the british road haulage industry. the industry has been declining steadily over the last decade. drivers with operating licences have fallen by 8% in the last three years. foreign lorries now control 80% of cross-channel business. in the last decade 20% of domestic business has been lost to foreign hauliers. there is a large and growing resident population of foreign hauliers using foreign vehicles and paying only their own countries’ modest vehicle charges who are taking more and more domestic business. it might appear that british hauliers are simply losing business as the result of competition, a favourite word in the eu lexicon. however, the competition is not fair competition. the british road fund licence is much greater and fuel tax exceeds that of other countries. foreign hauliers work in the uk on fuel brought with them in 1 000-litre tanks. whilst the proposed charges will apply to all vehicles, the burden on the british industry could be fatal. this directive must be resisted.
mr president, i would like to clarify that the committee has asked for this to be deferred because we have been the subject of a procedural violation. a recital that was agreed in a written trialogue procedure – and about which there can therefore be no doubt – was removed in the coreper (committee of permanent representatives) text. we have also been told that the commission legal services will not agree to a text that is not wholly in accord with the common understanding, even though the common understanding is not legally binding. we cannot accept this unilateral change as a precedent in any way, and therefore we will not vote until the matter is resolved. we cannot allow the interinstitutional agreements, or common understandings or anything else, to restrict the power of this parliament that has been conferred on us by the treaty, and therefore this text cannot be allowed to proceed. before we go ahead, we will also need to have a clear understanding that this cannot be repeated.
in writing. − i voted to support sweden’s nomination of h.g. wessberg to join the european court. mr wessberg will replace lars heikensten, who left to become executive director of the nobel foundation. mr wessberg will take up his duties following his formal appointment by the council of ministers, scheduled for friday, 10 june 2011.
in writing. − i was pleased to support the swedish candidate for the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of ágnes hankiss, accused of defamation. ms hankiss’s immunity was lifted because the events in question took place in 2004, before she was elected to the european parliament (in july 2009), and because the case does not concern her political activities as an mep.
in writing. − i voted for this report which is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the eu.
in writing. − this commission proposal simplifies the legislation in force on proving the origin of certain textile products.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement and the participation of the republic of croatia in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. illicit drug use and trafficking are worldwide phenomena that threaten health and social stability. statistics show that around one in three young europeans has tried an illicit drug and at least one of our citizens dies every hour from a drug overdose. at a european level, it is also important to have factual and objective information from croatia concerning drugs and drug addiction and their consequences, and, at the same time, the republic of croatia can get information on best practices to understand the nature of its drug problems and better respond to them.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which integrates croatia into the fight against drugs in the eu.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which has provisions to allow a greater volume of euro cash to travel to countries which are due to adopt the euro to cope with demand. i supported this report because it improves the safety and training of professionals who transport euro cash.
in writing. − i welcome the action plan on global navigation satellite system (gnss) applications (com(2010)308), which aims to promote the development of downstream applications through certification, standardisation and coordination with the industry and other countries as well as by disseminating information, raising awareness, implementing regulatory measures and increasing funding.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which deals with developing and deploying european systems to exploit galileo and other satellite systems and their applications in the transport domain.
in writing. − i voted for this report which considers that comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers, freight operators and airlines, by means both of market access and of regulatory convergence to promote fair competition, including with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards providing certain standards and conditions are met.
in writing. − this report provides for a framework to be established in order that parliament can undertake its obligations under the lisbon treaty in regard to international air agreements. the committee on transport and tourism were keen to ensure that in dealing with individual agreements with individual sovereign countries, parliament used the same procedures and guidelines for rapporteurs to work with in order to give us a consistent approach and to give us the opportunity to consider important aspects, including relevant safety and social conditions. i shall be voting in favour and would hope that parliament can support my report so that the proposed framework can be put into operation
in writing. − i voted against this amendment as it is imperative that the commission is not permitted to establish revenue-raising capabilities, even via an indirect charge, particularly without the unanimous assent of the council. in the uk we do not currently subscribe to the eurovignette scheme. however, the westminster government is looking into rolling out hgv charges in accordance with european law by 2015. the commission, however, has reserved the right to make the carbon charge obligatory by 2013. i do not wish to see uk citizens in any way contributing to any form of eu tax.
in writing. − i voted for this report revising ‘eurovignette’ road haulage tax rules, which will make it possible for member states to charge hauliers for air and noise pollution costs, in addition to motorway tolls. this directive will ensure that revenue from these charges is used to improve the performance of transport systems and cut pollution.
in writing. − el khadraoui has done a great job on this report. the only way that we can make progress in fighting climate change is responsible reports such as this one which hold those accountable who cause the most pollution and which is why i was able to support it.
in writing. − i voted for this report. environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, particularly by making data available on the environmental impact of economic activities. such information could be extremely valuable for the purposes of environmental policy-making.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr barroso, we have enjoyed a series of pantomime exchanges on the euro. every time i have predicted that a country would need a bail-out you have come back and said, oh no, they don’t, everything is fine. and now we face the fourth bail-out – the second greek bail-out – unless, of course, today you are going to tell us that is not necessary either. but the question i want to ask you today is perhaps far more serious than anything that has happened in greece or ireland or portugal to date. it is about the real sovereign debt crisis which we may face within the next few weeks, and which concerns the integrity of the european central bank itself. month after month i have warned that you cannot go on buying up vast quantities of your own bad debt. mr barroso, do you accept that the finances of the european central bank and its integrity are now in a serious and parlous state?
on behalf of the efd group. – backing up some of my rhetoric, just yesterday the respected think-tank open europe came out with some figures on this. it said that a staggering eur 190 billion of the ecb’s exposure is exposure to the greek state and greek banks. should the ecb see the value of its assets fall by just 4.25%, its entire capital base will be wiped out. do you accept the findings of open europe, or do you go along with mr juncker’s assertion a couple of weeks ago that, with the situation in the euro being as serious as it is, you actually have to lie in public?
the eu is becoming even wider and, with the advent of pan-european political parties, seemingly ever deeper, with this inability to achieve consensus being proved repeatedly. the contrary position of germany over libya and italian and french disagreement over the recognition of schengen visas proved this. could you explain to me and to my electorate how it is possible to instigate common policy in important areas, such as international relations and security, without consensus, unless we dispense with the democratic rights of member states to project their own aspirations unilaterally?
the first thing i mentioned was pan-european parties. could you explain to me why taxpayers should fund political parties at any level? maybe you could explain to me how useful they are for the eu’s aims. one other question i have is about cathy ashton. i note her attendance at commission meetings is very low. is the uk being correctly represented at the commission?
i will stick to the topic. the commission yesterday adopted a strong package of reports and measures on fighting the corruption that is costing the eu eur 120 billion per annum – roughly equivalent to the total eu budget – but eight member states score less than five out of ten on the transparency international index. the commission says implementation of anti-corruption instruments is unsatisfactory. so would it not have been a good idea for corruption to be raised at the g8 summit? the only reference that i can find, and it was an oblique one, was about developing countries. there was no reference at all to how rich countries need to show the political will to tackle the problem of our own backyard and show leadership on this. was not this an opportunity missed to talk about corruption and bribery at the g8, especially as one of the members, russia, is 154th out of 178 and many of our own member states show poorly on the transparency international index?
president of the commission. − in fact this question should be in the first part of our debate but i can respond to the distinguished member by saying that, over the years, the commission’s position has been very open, and in fact sympathetic, to the idea of eurobonds. one of my predecessors was the first to put forward the idea of eurobonds. the reality is that there was no agreement between the member states. what the member states have agreed now was the creation of a european stability mechanism. when it is created it will become the number one international financial institution in the world – the most important in the world in terms of financial strength. i think that is where we should now concentrate our efforts. at the same time we are open to discussing with the member states – and with the parliament of course – several options regarding the possibility of eurobonds, provided the member states are willing to consider that possibility. that is of course a very important and decisive one.
the recent g8 summit wanted it to be known that it was providing usd 40 billion to egypt and tunisia for overthrowing dictatorships and embracing democracy. however, the g8 statement said that it would support countries in the region that move towards not just democracy, but also a market economy. it wants these countries to ‘reap the benefits of globalisation’ and to engage in ‘investment integration’, which means making it easier for g8 countries to make money in these countries and then take the money out again. i would not object to recipients of aid being expected to implement and retain democratic institutions and procedures. that would be quite right. however, is it not sinister that recipients should be told which economic policies they should choose and which they should discard? surely donors have no right to instruct these new democracies as to which democratic choices they should make?
mr president, i am glad that you raised at the g8 summit the issues of the problems of the euro zone. it is a crisis, and we all know it is a crisis. as the previous speaker mentioned, many member states are concerned. we had issues in madrid recently when people were protesting on the streets. there were protests in lisbon, of all places, and we have also seen what has happened in greece. isn’t it time, mr barroso, that you stood up – you mentioned telling lies a few moments ago – and told the truth and said that there is an option: that these countries should be allowed to leave the euro zone? that is the only way out of it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner piebalgs is right. we also have one of the greatest challenges facing the european union in front of us. as rapporteur for the european parliament report on nation building, i have to say that this is an extraordinary opportunity for us to partner south sudan, one of the poorest and newest ‘countries-to-be’ on 9 july, and make nation building – that we keep talking about in this chamber – a reality on the ground. this is a country rich in natural resources, but it is also a country with the most awful social indicators. a child born in south sudan today has a higher chance of dying in infancy than attending primary school. what a statistic that is. food products provided by aid agencies and intended for distribution to the poor for free are now being sold on the market. we need to build capacity from the bottom up. they do not have a civil service. they do not have trained administrators. they do not have the infrastructure that is required for a modern ‘state-to-be’. they need the rule of law, they need good governance, they need transparency, they need our expertise as partners. they need to invite us and we need to provide our partnership of know-how.
madam president, i want this afternoon to strongly emphasise the need for the eu to work with south sudan in democratisation and institution-building. yes, this will be a country with one of the highest infant mortality rates and lowest educational indicators in the world, necessitating fast-track accession to the cotonou agreement, with access to the european development fund and fair debt alleviation. but just as the eu should be proud that we have contributed to a largely peaceful and credible referendum process – and i pay tribute to my colleague, veronique de kayser, for her personal leadership – the eu must give priority to helping south sudan with its constitutional review process, entrenching a multi-party system and preventing corruption from taking any root from the start. madam president, for south sudan the 9 july date goes before everything else; for north sudan, although the comprehensive peace agreement may be coming to an end, its obligations do not. the threat of violence remains, not just in south sudan itself, but in the neighbouring blue nile and south kordofan provinces of north sudan, and still in darfur. indeed, i want to ask mr piebalgs in his reply to explain what the eu is doing to combat continuing and deteriorating human rights violations, in particular concerning human rights defenders such as hawa abdulla from the au-un peace-keeping mission, who has been subject to arbitrary detention and beaten. i was privileged to be present in east timor at the birth of the world’s first new state of this millennium. i hope that south sudan can achieve its independence while averting the tragic transition suffered by the people of east timor and providing peace and prosperity for the sudanese people, who have suffered too much during the longest-running civil war in africa.
madam president, on 9 july south sudan will declare independence as an english-speaking new african state. the eu has rightly supported the cpap’s process and referendum in south sudan. however, the next few months will remain critical. south sudan must be enabled to establish itself as a viable sovereign state. even without a hostile neighbour to the north, south sudan faces enormous developmental challenges. infrastructure is largely non-existent. there is widespread intercommunal hostility. healthcare indicators are amongst the worst in the world and the economy is almost completely dependent on oil exports. it is therefore essential to increase eu developmental and humanitarian aid to south sudan. however, south sudan also needs the eu’s unequivocal support politically. the recent seizure of the disputed border region of abyei by the khartoum government suggests that president bashir is still not fully reconciled to his country’s partition. lastly, i am also hopeful that south sudan will live up to its promise and be the first african union country to re-recognise the stable and democratic republic of somaliland as an independent country also.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that european citizens are losing confidence and trust in more and more european programmes. it is important that we do not push further forward at a speed and rate we are not fully prepared for. this is a feeling felt by many member states with regard to the schengen area and we should not rush with further expansion before all involved are fully and sufficiently ready and prepared. of course i must stress that this debate should not be used as an excuse to criticise either bulgaria or romania, who we know have been working very hard to meet the technical criteria that the commission has set. although there may well be disagreement between us as to whether those criteria have been met, much has been done. but this is an opportunity to talk about renewing faith in the schengen system and the integrity of the european union itself, and an opportunity to improve a completely outdated and ineffective evaluation mechanism. we are currently dealing with a system which is not able to deal with the current or future challenges europe faces or the political views of its member states. now is the time to set criteria which not only deal with the technical aspects of the schengen system but assess the impact of organised crime and corruption, also within the assessment of existing schengen member states, and i would like to see europol and eurojust involved in those assessments. perhaps such a new evaluation mechanism would help prevent some of the differences of opinion and lack of confidence in the current system which we are hearing not only in this chamber but right across europe at the present time.
mr president, it is odd, is it not, that as the schengen area comes apart in its core countries, there are plans to extend it to include bulgaria and romania. there are over 900 000 gypsies in romania and bulgaria, many of whom would like to migrate. once they can travel freely within the schengen area, many of them will inevitably find their way to britain in order to take advantage of our generous benefits and public housing system, like so many before them. perhaps some enterprising british citizens might like to meet the roma as they disembark at calais and heathrow and give them the addresses and location maps so that they can find their way to the homes of our prime minister, his cabinet colleagues and all the mps in favour of eu membership. only when the roma pitch their caravans on the front lawns of our out-of-touch political class might they change their views on the benefits of eu membership.
mr president, i may have changed my seat here to the ecr group this week, but i have not changed my perspective on the european union. when it comes to schengen it has been the ecr view that this is generally a matter for schengen area members to decide, including switzerland, of course, which is in schengen, but not in the european union. but the closure of the border by france to italian trains, and danish demands to mend schengen shows it is in crisis. pragmatism dictates that the implications of bulgaria and romania joining are profound for those way beyond the schengen area. a leaky border will mean that many illegal entrants destined for the uk can reach calais without hindrance, for example, and bulgaria has not complied with its obligations on organised crime. in summary, this proposal is simply a border too far.
the next item is question time (b7-0407/2011). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one question 6 by mairead mcguinness, which has been taken over by jim higgins (h-000206/11) subject: quality food schemes in february 2011 the commission registered its 1000th quality food name. it is clear; however, that the number of applications to register under the protected geographical indication (pgi), protected designation of origin (pdo) and traditional specialities guaranteed (tsg) quality food schemes varies considerably from one member state to another. why does the commission think there are such disparities between member states? can the commission comment on the views expressed by some food producers that the registration process is long and bureaucratic and therefore discourages applicants? how can the registration process be made more user-friendly? can the commission provide information on consumer awareness of the quality food schemes? how can recognition of the pdo, pgi and tsg labels be improved and made more relevant to consumers, in particular in member states that have few registered products?
question 7 by jim higgins (h-000199/11) subject: youth unemployment the economic crisis has devastated employment levels among young graduates. in november last year, unemployment among young people reached 21% across the eu. youth unemployment stands at less than 10% in only three countries — germany, the netherlands and austria. elsewhere it is dramatic: in the baltic states, ireland, greece and slovakia, unemployment among young people stands at 30% or above. and in spain, it is more than 40%. what steps does the commissioner intend to take to prevent an exodus of young people from europe? how does the commissioner intend to emulate the best practices of germany, the netherlands and austria on an eu-wide scale?
question 8 by georgios papanikolaou (h-000194/11) subject: migration and the schengen area the principle of freedom of movement in the schengen area is in danger of being compromised by the north african crisis, as reflected in talks between italy and france concerning the relocation of migrants coming chiefly from tunisia and the reintroduction of border controls. this is also confirmed by statements issued by french officials on the need to re-examine certain provisions of the schengen agreement. what action does the commission intend to take to prevent freedom of movement in the schengen area, a cornerstone of european unification, being compromised? given that the introduction of the schengen area has shifted responsibility for eu external border controls onto a limited number of member states, how will the commission persuade member states as a whole to show greater and more effective solidarity in the face of a mass influx of migrants and overcome their manifest reluctance to assume their responsibilities in this respect, so as to ensure that the burden is fairly shared?
question 9 by bernd posselt (h-000196/11) subject: visa scheme for kosovo what is the commission’s assessment of the current state of progress towards visa liberalisation for kosovo (visa facilitation scheme), and what is the timetable for action on this urgent matter?
question 10 by gay mitchell (h-000205/11) subject: countering the use of the internet by criminals the rapid growth of technology, and in particular the internet, is making criminal organisations more and more difficult to penetrate. criminals are now communicating with one another via the internet, rather than by mobile phone, which had been the method of choice until recently. how does the commission propose to combat the use of the internet by criminal gangs across europe?
question 11 by sarah ludford (h-000215/11) subject: schengen evaluations and the possible suspension mechanism there is a danger that commission proposals for governance of the schengen zone are seen to be prioritising european procedure over european substance. the commission is suggesting a dominant lead for itself in a revised schengen evaluation process, and parliament proposes to modify that in order to allow a balance between the role of european and national experts. in relation to schengen suspension, the commission is proposing an eu mechanism instead of member state decision, but this has been widely (mis)interpreted to mean that the reintroduction of internal borders will actually be easier in practice. since it may well prove politically too difficult to implement a community method for both evaluations and suspension, however worthwhile, would it not be better to make european substance the priority by launching infringement proceedings when necessary against member states in breach of schengen rules? question 12 by maria eleni koppa (h-000216/11) subject: implementation of the schengen agreement freedom of movement for european citizens unimpeded by internal borders following the creation of the schengen area is one of the basic principles of the eu and the cornerstone of european integration. the reintroduction of border controls within the eu does not provide a solution to migration and will on the contrary make life more difficult for european citizens and lead to a nationalistic outlook. in view of this and the statement by the ep president to the effect that freedom of movement is perhaps the aspect of the eu most appreciated by europeans, what position does the commission intend to adopt with regard to denmark following its recent decision to reintroduce border controls? is it willing to take measures further to strengthen external eu borders? will it review the principle that the member state of entry bears sole responsibility for illegal immigrants?
commissioner, i am, of course, very glad to hear you stress again the importance that you attach to the maintenance of the schengen area. i know you are very sincere on that, but my worry is that, despite that, people seem to have got the wrong end of the stick and the impression has got abroad – for instance, last week an article in the financial times said that ‘schengen as well as the euro zone was disintegrating’ – that somehow the commission is fairly relaxed about the reintroduction of internal border controls. i fear that the emphasis the commission puts, as it were, on its own institutional rights is not being tracked through to its determination in practice, its zeal in practice, to take infringement proceedings if necessary. i have not heard of rome and paris receiving a letter of the kind that the president sent to copenhagen.
question 13 by frédéric daerden (h-000197/11) subject: future of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) a number of votes and declarations have proven that there is consensus within the eu on various aspects of this fund. first of all, it differs from the european social fund in both its methodology and its objectives. the two instruments cannot therefore be confused, either formally or in practice. secondly, despite a slow start, changes to the implementing regulation in 2009 enabled the egf to be used more effectively. indeed, a clear increase in applications to mobilise this tool that brings the union closer to its workers has been noted. there is therefore no doubt that it needs to be made sustainable. lastly, this specific aspect of the egf calls for it to be regarded as a permanent fund in its own right, with sufficient payment appropriations to ensure that no transfers have to be made in order to mobilise it. what does the commission think about establishing a genuine fund that is on a par with the others, to meet all the needs of the egf without restricting the role of the european parliament which has been so involved in this issue?
mr aylward, i did say before you came in that we had 20 minutes per commissioner, which would mean that we could possibly get to question 15 by mrs blinkevičiūtė, but i am afraid i do not think we are going to make it to yours. perhaps you could put a supplementary to another question?
question 15 by vilija blinkeviciute (h-000203/11) subject: review of regulation (eec) no 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the community the reference framework for the free movement of workers is laid down in council regulation (eec) no 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the community and has been revised several times. parliament is currently drafting a report on promoting professional mobility in the eu. the commission representative who attended the meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs stated on 19 april 2011 that the commission was preparing to revise and improve the regulation. when in the commission’s view is that process likely to begin?
question 19 by hans-peter martin (h-000208/11) subject: reallocation of financial resources in the regional and cohesion funds is the commission prepared to reallocate at least 10% of the eur 51 billion currently available each year in the regional and cohesion funds to fast-start funding for new electricity networks for renewable energy?
question 20 by anne e. jensen (h-000212/11) subject: fulfilment of the objectives of structural funds payments at the end of june 2011, the commission will present its proposal for the next 7-year budgetary framework (2014-2020). in the case of eu regional policy, there have been substantial problems with absorption capacity under the individual programmes. several programmes have also failed to achieve their objectives. how does the commission intend to include the absorption capacity of each member state as a criterion for the allocation of structural fund appropriations in the coming budgetary period? does the commission agree that payments should be reviewed if a region has been receiving structural funding for years without this resulting in it meeting the targets set? will the commission consider a ‘sunset mechanism’ that sets a closing date on the allocation of structural fund appropriations to individual recipient regions? does the commission agree that such a mechanism would help create a more results-oriented cohesion policy? the court of auditors annual report for 2009 found the highest error rate to be in payments under the eu’s cohesion policy. this was the same finding as in previous years. how does the commission intend to remedy this situation?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if i may take this opportunity, speaking on behalf of her majesty’s government, i want to respond to mr verhofstadt who, as ever, has missed the point and who, as ever, is facing in the wrong direction. if he had read the report he would have seen that her majesty’s government said that this is a time of crisis in europe. he would have noticed that economies are stagnating, jobs are being lost and industries struggling to compete in a fast-changing world. what europe needed is a budget that is relevant, that is adding value and that engages with the people, but what mr verhofstadt and his colleagues are offering is more of the same. there is a saying: ‘if you do not change direction, you finish up at the point you were heading for when you started out’. this budget needs to change direction. we and her majesty’s government agree that spending should be increased in those areas that add value. we agree: investment in research and development, in trans-european networks for transport, energy and telecommunications should be increased. we agree: education, small businesses and encouraging the single market is wise, sound investment and should be encouraged. that will help create jobs and growth. but we do not agree that it is acceptable for this house to take that as a reason to demand a bigger budget. to mr verhofstadt i have to say this. all over europe governments are imposing austerity budgets, and this house would be exceedingly unwise if it does not take on board that message, if it chooses to ignore the letter from the five heads of government, because what those five heads of government were saying is: more europe is not the answer; smarter europe is. we need a budget which is more focused. in the special committee on policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 we rightly talked about priorities, but then we never acted on it. there was no evidence of a willingness to take tough choices, the kind of choices which are being taken by governments all over europe at this time. so we accept that there should be increased expenditure on the new priorities but we also think it was time we looked again at the traditional priorities, so here again it was another missed opportunity for the european budget. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to ask my colleague if he does not accept that transferring from the national to the european budget some key items of expenditure is going to produce cost efficiencies and economies of scale and save national treasuries money. that is the central message of parliament’s approach to reforming the financial perspective. it is logical and it requires a logical and rational response from london.
mr president, i understand mr duff’s point and, as ever, the theory is right but the practice is not. show me the evidence of where transferring that support makes for greater efficiencies through spending by the european union. show me the evidence of where it has actually saved citizens money rather than costing them more. i say again, this budget is evidence of a call from mr duff and his colleagues for more europe, not smarter europe. the united kingdom government is asking for better spending, not more spending.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this house will, yet again, be accused of being out of touch with reality if it votes for a budget increase for the period 2014 to 2020. the reason given for this increase is the funding of the 2020 strategy, the one it is said will take us out of the crisis. let us recall what happened with the lisbon strategy; it was an epic failure. taxpayers’ money was wasted and we should not repeat this mistake. the european court of auditors reports a significant percentage of irregularities affecting different policy areas, averaging 2.8% of the budget year after year, and we continue to flow funds to these regions. projects have seen costs grow by up to three times their original estimates; others suffer delays while being superseded by better technology. such is the case with galileo which has gone from a eur 7.7 billion budget to a eur 22.6 billion budget. more than 40% of the budget continues to be invested in the common agricultural policy, while only 4.7% of the workforce in europe is engaged in this. the common fisheries policy – deemed a failure by commissioner damanaki – requires taxpayers to send eur 1 billion to brussels every year. the european external action service costs an extra 500 million each year and has not yet demonstrated its raison d’être. all these examples should certainly justify not a budget increase but a budget reduction. i would like to think that the uk government will take a stand, will say enough is enough, and call for a reduction. however it seems its coalition meps here favour a freeze. taxpayers in the uk will not be thanking them.
mr president, the mocking of her majesty’s government by mr verhofstadt when he shared with us his logic as to why britain should hand over more money and more power to the eu was further evidence of the palpable disdain in which the uk, its national government and its citizens are held by some in this house. what mr verhofstadt failed to mention is that other savings are available to the uk. businesses forced to spend gbp 30 million to comply with eu regulations could save this by taking back control from europe. uk fishermen would love to have the gbp 3.3 billion in their pockets: the value of the catch lost when the eu let other countries fish in their territorial waters. commissioner, you state that the european budget is not a duplication of a national budget. however, it cannot be divorced from the realities of its citizens. currently, the uk contribution is gbp 6.4 billion, rising to over gbp 10 billion if the rebate goes. it can only be met by raising taxes, cutting services, schools … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the public, the hardworking taxpayers across europe who actually earn the money which so many in this place are so keen to spend, want europe to do less and they want europe to do it better. they want a lean european budget which takes into account the fact that, whether we like it or not, we are living in an age of austerity. they want europe to focus on the very limited number of areas where europe can actually add value, and leave the rest of the activities to our member states. unfortunately, this report proposes none of these things. let us be clear: the suggestion of a 5% increase is completely unacceptable and the idea of so-called own resources is equally unacceptable – it is just a power-grab by the eu. the budget should be modernised, funds should be reallocated to programmes which actually deliver future benefits and not cover up past failures. financing of euro bail-outs should be left to those countries that actually wanted to join the euro in the first place. those of us who warned that it was a mistake should not be forced to contribute to it. the committee had a chance to pursue many of these constructive and future-proof suggestions, they rejected it, they have done none of those things and the report should be rejected by this house.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the chairman for the work they have done on this report. the debate today on the report highlights that there will be a fight in the council on a number of issues, including the overall increase, the uk rebate and own resources. to be fair, apart from the issue of the uk rebate where uk members will be in a minority of one, i think the parliament has tried to reach some compromises. when you have long, complicated and important reports like this, compromise is almost inevitable, but i do welcome some of the compromises. i welcome the compromise on the duration and the structure of the next financial perspective. i also welcome the compromise on cohesion policy. i believe that cohesion policy is vital if we are to achieve jobs and growth in the eu post-2013. therefore, for cohesion policy, we need adequate funding at least at the level we have now, if not more into the future. the next financial perspective must be about jobs and growth if it is to be relevant to citizens. therefore, as well as a strong cohesion policy, we also need policies for funding research and development in our universities and smes. fp8 therefore needs adequate funding for the future. we also need to invest in our infrastructure in the european union – infrastructure like transport, energy and improving broadband in many rural areas – and our rural areas themselves should not be forgotten. to deliver all these policies on jobs and growth we need delivery mechanisms. we also need partners. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur for all the work he has done. it is tremendous in terms of the achievement of trying to get a consensus. there are three areas for amendment which i would plead in favour of. firstly, in the longer term we need a five-year financial perspective. if it is the case that 2020 is a seven-year dimension, we should have an absolute condition that the next one will be for a five-year period. secondly, there is insufficient work done on looking at how we get a statement of assurance for expenditure. those who are arguing for more money at a european level would have a stronger case if we knew that we had an absolute cast-iron understanding of where the money actually goes. last but not least, in reply to mr verhofstadt, it is unwise to single out any one member state when there are a number of member states which are net contributors to the budget. i would urge very strongly that we should have a limit on the net contribution of member states as a percentage of gdp because, looking forward, it is unrealistic to think you can get member states’ approval when their net contributions are doubling at a time of significant austerity.
mr president, i thought the eu could not get any worse and then i came across this report. it starts with a hefty helping of self-delusion: ‘never have europeans been more demanding of the eu’. well, increasing numbers of british people are demanding that we come out of it. perhaps that is what they mean. it dismisses utterly the idea of freezing the budget after 2013 and insists that even an increase of 5% would allow only a limited contribution to the eu’s objectives. well, we must be thankful for small mercies. tucked away in the middle of paragraph 166 is a call for an end to rebates. this is the device by which the united kingdom pays only an unacceptable net contribution instead of an outrageous net contribution. insisting that the uk should pay over its hard-earned money is bad enough, but paragraph 169 suggests that the eu should have the power to levy its own taxes without our consent and without our control. that is simply unacceptable.
colleagues, as you know, because of the fire practice the voting the and explanations of vote were suspended yesterday, so we will be taking those today as part of the vote. they have been mixed in, in the order you have on your voting lists.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, as you are well aware, british conservatives normally take the view that we abstain on questions to do with the euro or with schengen because we are outside both, and therefore arguably it is none of our business. however, in this case i believe it is our business; we know that bulgaria and romania have serious problems with crime and corruption and i do not believe that their border controls are as good as those which would obtain in other schengen countries. they will therefore become a route and a conduit for illegal immigrants into the european union who, within the schengen area, would then be free to come to calais and would definitely have the effect of increasing illegal immigration into the united kingdom. for that reason i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted against the schengen acquis being extended to encompass bulgaria and romania simply because i do not think provisions have been made to make sure they adjoin the passport-free area safely and effectively. corruption and organised crime are still rife in these countries which are also portals for illegal immigration. sex trafficking, child prostitution, trafficking of children and managed criminal gangs would all potentially flourish under open border conditions and not enough has been done to curb these crimes in these member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the basis of expert reports which say that at this moment both romania and bulgaria have proved that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner.
in writing. − i welcome this report which proposes to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system to bulgaria and romania. i am also pleased that the report contains safeguards for data protection.
in writing. − as a friend, albeit critical friend, of bulgaria i wish to do all i can to assist progress in that country but not at the expense of my own country’s well-being. i therefore abstained in the vote. on the accession of bulgaria to the eu on 1 january 2007, weaknesses remained in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the bulgarian authorities undertook to bring about radical improvement. the eu established a ‘cooperation and verification mechanism’ to assist bulgaria and to verify progress against six benchmarks. improvement has been disappointingly slow. in its most recent report on these matters (february 2011) the commission stated that bulgaria needed to improve further the way the judiciary, police and other investigative bodies are structured, managed and cooperate. nevertheless, the 27 governments, in council concluded, perhaps surprisingly, that bulgaria fulfilled the conditions for schengen, a system which is itself under question at the moment. the uk, of course, remains outside the schengen area.
in writing. − fp7 is a chance for the eu to make its research policy match its economic and social ambitions, in particular by consolidating the european research area (era). allocated a budget of around eur 54 billion for the period 2007-2013, fp7 has, over the years, become one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of eu research policy. four main objectives have been identified and correspond to four specific programmes that must structure the european research effort: the cooperation programme, the ideas programme, the people programme and the capacity programme. the aim is to enable the eu to respond to the great societal challenges that concern all member states and to which they cannot respond alone (ageing population and health, energy, water and food supplies, sustainable development, climate change, and so on), as well as to develop the knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness.
in writing. − i support the work done by the rapporteur in this report. i share his concerns that the commission communication was delivered so much later than promised. the fp7 has delivered some excellent work and i am encouraged by the work done by the rapporteur to close the golden triangle.
in writing. − i voted against the trade relationship between the eu and canada as i feel any bit could undermine the commonwealth negotiation between uk and canada. while i see no reason why the eu and canada cannot trade freely, prior legislation has demonstrated the eu ambition is predisposed to usurp rather than parallel extant trade relationships between the uk and third countries.
in writing. − i am delighted that my amendment, which ‘takes note of the recent legal developments regarding the eu’s ban on seal products, in particular canada’s request to the wto for the establishment of a formal dispute resolution panel, and expresses its strong hope that canada will withdraw the wto challenge, which runs counter to positive trade relations, prior to the need for ratification of the ceta agreement by the european parliament’, was carried.
in writing. − parliament has given a strong signal in its resolution on the eu-canada trade negotiations that it will rigorously defend its legislation to ban seal products from the eu market. eu citizens demanded we take action to keep the products of the cruel commercial hunt out of the eu. canada has no right to try and undermine the democratic will of european citizens by taking our clearly non-discriminatory seal ban law to the world trade organization. closer trade ties between the eu and canada can only be built on a basis of respect for the wishes of the european public and for european law.
in writing. − i welcome today’s resolution, which highlights progress in negotiations for an eu trade agreement with canada. canada is an important potential trading partner for the eu, and both parties will profit from such an agreement. however, there are some concerns which the commission needs to take in to account: the environmental impact of extracting oil from tar sands and the health of workers mining asbestos are just two issues which need to be looked at carefully. i support calls for canada to withdraw its wto challenge on the eu’s ban on seal products and am pleased that amendments outlining this position were adopted by parliament. the commission also needs to take a strong position to protect the ban. intellectual property rights must also be adhered to with the use of trademarks and patents. i am confident that these problems will be dealt with and taken into account by the commission and that an effective trade agreement will be agreed.
in writing. − i voted against the potential adoption of eu harmonisation of credit rating agencies as the standards may vary, and necessarily so, between member states. without one single common currency, and in view of the volatility of markets, particularly in the failing euro zone economies, the uk faces the possibility of being tangled in a mire of harmonised credit ratings which would have to encompass all economic circumstances across the union and could expose uk business and industry to hazardous ventures supported by eu-wide credit ratings. it is up to independent economies in independent member states to determine their conditions and limitations concerning credit rating.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the credit rating agencies industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by cras. the report suggests ways of dealing with each of these problems.
in writing. − i support this report which recognises that credit rating agencies lack accountability, competition and transparency, notably with regard to sovereign debt. more needs to be done at an eu and global level to ensure that reckless practices do not endanger the financial security of the eu.
in writing. − this report will introduce tougher oversight of credit rating agencies by the new european supervisory authority on securities and markets (esma) this summer, which will prove an important tool in ensuring that the previous laissez-faire attitude to lending will not be able to continue in the wake of the financial crisis. credit rating agencies were earning fees, from financial institutions, for awarding ratings on their products, and from the resulting business of selling those products. this conflict meant agencies were keen to give high ratings to complex financial instruments, which led to investor complacency when buying these products. agencies were also advising companies on ways to present their higher-risk products as low risk, and this misleading practice meant that these products turned out to be more toxic than their rating would suggest and led to huge losses for investors, including pension holders across wales.
in writing. − i voted against the application of an external dimension of social policy, promoting labour and social standards and european corporate social responsibility. this is because, in my opinion, the eu should refrain from imposing social prerogatives on third countries, however correct or beneficial they may deem them to be. whilst i accept the importance of fostering humane methods of treating a workforce, social policy in the eu has already wreaked havoc on a number of uk institutions and should not be extended. a degree of flexibility and freedom is needed when dealing with social policy, as one-size-fits-all policy-making can be counterproductive when applied at domestic level. for this reason, the eu should not be seeking to acquire competence over social policy at all.
in writing. − i welcome this report. core labour standards are embedded in the eight ilo conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and the abolition of child labour. it is clear not only from these conventions but also from the report of the world commission on the social dimension of globalization that it is necessary to change the narrow focus on markets into a wider interest in people, i.e. focus on the protection of workers' rights and the rule of labour law. in order for the eu to negotiate with non-member countries, the latter must respect all the above-mentioned. this is a condition without which negotiations with non-member countries are impossible. trade policy cannot ignore any failure in respecting workers' rights, and the development of society may therefore only continue after these drawbacks are removed. by setting labour standards, the eu supports opportunities for men and women to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity. given the current globalisation, international labour standards are the basis which guarantees that the growth of the global economy will benefit all.
in writing. − i supported this report, which precedes the commission communication on csr. i also welcome the work done by my colleague richard howitt at committee stage to produce a report that promotes the positive work that corporate social responsibility can do at european level.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy demonstrates that social policy is a fundamental priority for europe. however, more needs to be done to make improvements in this area and it is for this reason that i supported this report. the report calls for the elimination of forced labour as well as the abolition of child labour, and also highlights the need for more focus on the protection of workers’ rights. non-member countries must adhere to basic principles such as these if the eu is to work and trade with them. member states must also cooperate with partner countries to ensure the protection of vulnerable groups and to fight gender discrimination as well as discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion, age and disability. i hope that the commission will come forward with some concrete proposals which will bring about improved labour and social standards, as well as proposals to promote corporate social responsibility in its external polices.
in writing. − i voted against the measure for cooperation in vocational education and training to support the europe 2020 strategy as i am fearful of any organisation that divides opinion having access and influence over minds. there is a large enough percentage of the eu population who consider themselves eurosceptic for it to be deemed inappropriate that brussels be at the helm of education and training. such activity could be deemed propaganda.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the europe 2020 strategy lists the key factors for smart growth (fostering knowledge, innovation and education, and promoting the digital society), sustainable growth (more resource-efficient production going hand in hand with enhanced competitiveness), and inclusive growth (increasing the employment rate, training, and eradicating poverty). what is needed, as far as vocational education and training are concerned, is to take practical steps at eu level and in the member states to breathe life into the strategy.
in writing. − i support this report, however i believe the scale of the cuts to the lifelong learning programme and the people programme is unacceptably severe.
in writing. − both young and old people alike should have access to vocational education and training. for example, both the lifelong learning and people schemes provide invaluable opportunities to those who want to learn new skills and find new jobs. current unemployment levels, particularly among young people, are worrying and more needs to be done to ensure that young people are able to gain vital skills and qualifications. i strongly believe that the esf has a valuable role to play in training and educating people. it is important that those on lower incomes receive financial support to help them attend training courses, which would in turn give them more opportunity to fully integrate themselves in the labour market.
in writing. − the future instrument for supplying eu development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms. the eu has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7 % of its gni on oda by 2015. to reach this aim, the current level of european aid will have to significantly increase. given the added value of commission aid, and the commission’s new role in coordinating the union’s and the member states’ development policy (article 210 tfeu), the share of oda channelled through the eu budget should remain at least stable. the annual figures for the new development cooperation instrument in the next mff period should significantly increase in real terms.
in writing. − i support this report which draws on the instrument’s performance, scrutiny and promoting better use of development money in the future.
in writing. − i voted against the niebler report on impact assessments. ukip supports the concept of impact assessments but only if they are truly independent, have real teeth (such that the commission has to take note of them) and are conducted at the national level to avoid producing a bland one-size-fits-all which will not enable national governments to assess the impact on their countries with sufficient accuracy. unfortunately the niebler report fails to meet these criteria.
in writing. − i voted for this report. impact assessments (ias) are a key instrument for the legislative process, of which european legislators should make greater use in future. the benefits of ias are obvious. they show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them reach a decision. ias can thus make a significant contribution to better lawmaking. however, they can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator’s democratically legitimate decision-making process. they merely permit the technical and substantive preparation of a political decision.
in writing. − i welcome s&d amendments to this report at committee stage representing greater transparency in the legislative process and promoting greater ease of access for smes and ngos through the publication of road maps and an extended consultation period. impact assessments are so important to our work in parliament and should play a greater role, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. − i voted against the introduction of eu contract law as i do not believe brussels should be making legislation where national legislation already exists. by introducing eu contract law and making it optional for businesses to choose domestic or european legislation, it confuses the system and will create legislative overlaps that may result in expensive tribunals. it is also likely that eu contract law will favour eu social and employment policy, such as the working time directive which has both proven highly unpopular and caused disruption in the uk for a range of essential industries and services. it is also highly likely that legislation that for the time being carries a discretional opt-in will later be made obligatory by the eu.
in writing. − i voted against this report.
in writing. − labour euro mps want to see improvements in the single market and to facilitate cross-border transactions for consumers and small businesses. however, consumer and business groups have come together on this issue to reject mrs wallis’ proposal of an optional instrument of contract law. they maintain that rules of national contract law are not a factor in influencing consumer attitudes to buying from another member state; in fact, there are other genuine barriers to cross-border trade, such as administrative and cultural differences and a lack of effective means of redress for consumers. mrs wallis has failed to provide compelling evidence of the need for an optional instrument. indeed, such a proposal could even undermine existing consumer rights. we need to take time and evaluate the seven options in the green paper and make an evidence-based decision on the basis of clear impact assessments. similarly, we can not accept the ecr toolbox-based approach without sufficient evidence and impact assessment to demonstrate that this is the best way to protect consumers and help businesses. we owe it to our consumers and businesses to make the right decision for them and ensure that any change of law affecting their rights is properly thought through.
in writing. − i am disappointed that this report has passed through parliament. i was unable to support it because, as a response to a commission green paper, it ruled out far too many options for the future of an eu contract law and neglected a duty to request an impact assessment on the full costs and implications of each of the commission’s options.
in writing. − i welcome this report which stresses that gdp is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy-makers throughout the world; emphasises that gdp is a measure of production and does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general; underlines furthermore that it can be misleading in the sense that remedial measures following certain incidents such as accidents and natural disasters are treated as a benefit instead of a cost; notes that besides measuring economic development and productivity there are other indicators that influence and explain the living standards in a country and that have not been quantified until now although relevant indicators exist; stresses the need to develop additional indicators for measuring the full impact of economic activity.
in writing. − i support this report, which recommends several concrete actions including the creation of an environmental index, more timely publication of environmental and social data, more accurate reporting on social disparities and extending the system of national accounts to include environmental and social issues.
in writing. − mr president, at a time when the commission, and indeed this parliament, ought to be searching for, and bringing forward, proposals on how to save money, we are offered this report which suggests the completion of the galileo satellite navigation system at an additional cost of eur 1.9 billion in the next multi-annual financial framework. let us not forget that this is against a backdrop where the galileo satellite project started off with a budget of eur 7.7 billion and is now projected to cost eur 22.6 billion. to such a proposal, i categorically say no. current budget lines already in place for this project are easily sufficient to bring about its completion, yet – true to form – the suggestion is to spend even more. i know that if i speak to my constituents, they will give little support to the current spending on galileo, let alone an increase. again, i urge meps and the commission to be realistic and to be cautious with the money we have and with which we should aim to bring maximum benefit to our constituents.
in writing. − galileo, europe’s own global navigation satellite system, is of great importance to europe and in particular the uk. this project, which i fully support, has not only received significant public funding but private industry throughout the eu is also investing money, time and expertise into developing this system. however, despite recognising the need to push forward with this, i felt the need to abstain on the final vote. mr remek’s report suggests completing the galileo system will require additional funding of up to eur 1.9 billion in the next multiannual financial framework (mff). in this current difficult financial climate, i have to oppose this increase in spending, especially considering that the programme is already 60% over budget. i believe that galileo must stay within its current budget. let us look at how we can improve the current system within the means that we have. i would strongly urge the commission to take robust action to improve its programme management and to achieve savings. in order to do so, the commission must undertake a thorough and comprehensive impact assessment, so that we can make an informed decision regarding the future funding of the programme.
in writing. − the main challenge for the international activities of the gnss programmes will be to ensure the compatibility and interoperability with galileo, to access global gnss-related resources and set worldwide standards, to ensure security of the space segment and network of ground stations, while ensuring a stricter control of sensitive gnss technologies developed with european funding, to join in an international effort to develop innovative applications and specialised applications of supra-regional interest. an important objective will be to create market opportunities for the european gnss technology and applications industries.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which asks for the commission to launch a comprehensive analysis to obtain a more precise identification of the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013. this includes all commercial aspects of exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different exploitation models that will ensure that a stable governance model is put into place. the report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority (44 to 4).
in writing. − this report looks at the progress that has been made towards a european global satellite navigation system, or galileo, and looks at issues regarding the future governance of the initiative. when fully operational galileo will be a rival to american gps, and will operate on a wider and more accurate system of satellites and ground stations across the world. although there has been substantial technical progress, the report is more critical of the financial situation regarding the project. it raises issues that need to be addressed and recommends courses of action that can ensure that the satellite system reaches full operational capacity (foc) as soon as possible, meaning a quicker return on the investment, and this report serves as the basis for the debate on how the commission can best achieve this.
in writing. − i voted against the garriga polledo report from the sure committee because it wants to increase the eu budget for the period 2014 to 2020 by 5%. i could not vote in favour of the conservative party amendment to freeze the budget at 2013 levels because i firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations. i introduced an amendment to reduce the budget by 2.8% which is the average rate of irregularities affecting the eu budget as reported by the european court of auditors. among the amendments and innovations i opposed was an amendment to create an informal and powerless monitoring group in the european parliament to scrutinise programmes.
in writing. − i voted with a heavy heart against this resolution. while believing that good value can be obtained when 27 member states pool their resources, i could not vote for a 5% increase in the eu budget beyond 2013 when we have not thoroughly examined existing expenditure with a view to eliminating waste and duplication. the eu budget beyond 2013 must prioritise growth and job creation.
in writing. − labour euro mps believe the focus and priority for eu spending must be the funding of economic investment and research which boosts the economy and creates jobs. targeted eu spending is one way in which we can boost local economies and bring jobs to our communities. in the face of government cuts, the eu is providing vital funds for the uk regions. however, taxpayers want to see better value for money. that is why labour euro mps voted against calls for a 5% budget increase. savings can and must be made in other areas, in particular the common agricultural policy including harmful agricultural export subsidies and tobacco subsidies, in order to fund europe’s economic priorities. the debate on the next multiannual financial framework is an opportunity for fundamental reform and it must be seized. a ‘business as usual’ policy is not an option in a europe that needs finance for jobs and growth. labour euro mps do not believe that families should continue to bear the full cost of the uk’s budgetary contribution. that is why we back a debate on alternative ways to fund the eu, cutting the amount coming from vat and the national budget through options such as coordinated measures addressing the under-taxed financial sector.
in writing. − i will be supporting an amendment in the multiannual financial framework (mff) report which limits member state eu contributions to the rate of inflation (currently 3.2%) or below, as suggested by the heads of state of the uk, france, germany, netherlands and finland. the mmf garriga report seeks to increase funding from member states for the period 2014-2020 by 5%, and this i cannot support at a time when extreme adversity is being experienced in the uk from the government’s dangerous and socially divisive austerity measures. i do support many of the measures promoted in the report and in the green’s amendments, particularly around the green new deal, the end of national rebates and own resources for the eu, and am mindful that part of the above-inflation increases is needed to meet obligations under the lisbon treaty. there are however, many budget expensive lines remaining in the mff that shouldn’t be supported, and i'm thinking of the eur 6.6 billion to be spent on nuclear fusion as just one example. my argument is that if there isn't enough funding after inflation-only increases in member state contributions, ways should be found to re-allocate budget lines to meet any shortfalls.
in writing. − by passing this report on the new multiannual financial framework by 468 to 134 (with 54 abstentions) the parliament confirms that it is living in a different world from the harsh economic reality of our times. when such tough economic decisions are being made at home, (...) it is unacceptable for the eu to take no action to cut costs and eliminate waste. (...) the parliament decided to ignore the letter of the british prime minister, (...) and the heads of government of france, germany, the netherlands and finland, that there must be no increase in the eu budget (...). indeed, many of us want budget cuts and a reduction in britain’s excessive contribution. (...). the british public (...) will not accept taxes imposed by the eu and nor would the citizens of the other (...) countries, if they but realised what was going on (...). informed economic opinion will tell you that lower taxes are the best incentive to economic growth and job creation. this report is intended to provide the financial foundations of the eu superstate which i and my constituents (...) reject. i joined my fellow conservatives in voting against this report. (written statement abbreviated in accordance with rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, this debate is an evaluation of the situation regarding the new hungarian constitution, not the common law of the united kingdom which has protected our citizens for nearly 900 years. it is the commission which is charged with assessing and acting on such issues as are laid out in the treaties, and as requested by this parliament only a few months ago. this house was hoping to ask the commission what its conclusions are and how it intends to proceed, and we still look forward to your guidance, but it seems we have to wait a little bit longer. this is a union of different cultures and differing priorities. however, we all share values of freedom, fairness and equality for every person and every member state. what we should not tolerate is intolerance itself. what we ask now is for you, commissioner, to give this house, as soon as possible, a definitive answer as to whether the hungarian constitution is in line with european legislation and fundamental rights. if it is not, what next? if it is, commissioner, we need to know that, too, as soon as we can.
madam president, it is untenable to say that the constitution of a member state is a matter only for itself. the treaties, in articles 6 and 7, make it crystal clear not only that the union and the member states share certain values, but that the commission has the duty to police respect for those values. i wholly subscribe to what my colleague renate weber eloquently said: i do think it a bit rich for those of the same political persuasion as the ruling fidesz party in hungary to accuse critics of that constitution of being politically inspired. many of the provisions of this constitution are very partisan, such as the omission of protection of gay people from discrimination and the giving of extra votes to mothers. but i want to give a good example of one flaw in the constitution that undermines the treaty’s insistence on the rule of law. this is the declaration that the 1949 constitution is invalid. not just repealed, but invalid. this creates great legal uncertainty as it leaves in limbo, and apparently invalid themselves, laws passed under that constitution including in respect of hungary’s accession and eu membership. this is one reason why the commission should examine it for compliance with eu law and it could have a great effect on other member states.
madam president, there are a number of problems with this constitution, but i want to focus on one key issue, which is that the proposed constitution does not give any protection from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the only type of marriage that would be recognised would be one between a man and a woman. we have had a long fight across europe for lgbt rights, and we cannot allow hungary to take this retrograde step. gay rights are protected by the eu charter of fundamental rights. not only that, but married couples of the same sex should be able to move freely around europe and have their partnership legally recognised wherever they are. yes, it is for hungary to decide the hungarian constitution. however, each member state has the responsibility to respect the european community that they are part of. the protection of lgbt people is fundamental to the european union, and hungary cannot disregard that.
author. − madam president, the liberal group in the european parliament has always been supportive of the european arrest warrant because of its importance in the fight against serious cross-border crime. however, simultaneously, my group has always pointed out that the european arrest warrant system would be incomplete without advancing procedural defence rights in europe. we have constantly criticised the council for not progressing that agenda on the basis of the commission’s comprehensive proposal. now we are finally changing the situation on defence rights, and i applaud vice-president reding for her commitment to this programme under the roadmap. the question is: will this be enough to compensate for the failings of the european arrest warrant? i think not. we also have to do something about the way the european arrest warrant system operates. however, let us just note the successes: between 2005 and 2009, the arrest warrant has secured the extradition of almost 12 000 drug smugglers, child sex offenders, rapists and others. they include hussain osman, one of the 2005 london bombers. no londoner could be ungrateful to the european arrest warrant in the light of that. he came back within six weeks, from italy. however, in the uk at least, and we will hear this later, the european arrest warrant has become a favourite stick with which the eurosceptics batter the reputation of the eu. their cause has been helped by several notorious cases of breaches of human rights. in fact, the uk receives the second highest number of requests for surrender after germany. both the commission and defence rights organisations like fair trials international – i declare an interest, i am a patron – and justice, on whose council i sit, have pinpointed failings in the arrest warrant. problems with it being used for minor offences, the lack of legal representation in the issuing state, long pre-trial detention periods, the lack of bail for people who are not nationals of the issuing state, and bad detention conditions are all cited with reason. the commission does not think that we need to recast the european arrest warrant. i think we need to reconsider that. firstly, we need to have a much sounder basis for the requirement for a proportionality check, so that minor offences are not covered. secondly, we need to have an explicit human rights check in the executing state. that needs to be made explicit, and not implicit. thirdly, it needs to be recognised when it is not reasonable to execute a european arrest warrant, so that someone is not followed by alerts in the schengen information system around europe even though their surrender has been refused once on valid grounds. we also need to do something about the bail situation, not least by implementing the framework decision on supervision orders. there do need to be changes to the european arrest warrant, but fundamentally it has been a success. those who question it need to ask themselves whether they would be satisfied with criminals spending years beyond the reach of the courts and beyond the reach of justice, because traditional extradition takes too long and has too much red tape.
madam president, ms sippel described the european arrest warrant as a baby. is it not in fact much more of a frankenstein’s monster? should she not accept that?
author. − madam president, since 2004 i have warned that the european arrest warrant (eaw) could be used as an instrument of oppression against political dissidents. this is what is happening now in the case of julian assange. there are many irregularities in the swedish case against him. mr assange has not yet been charged with any specific offence. a previous investigation against him, for what the swedes designate as ‘minor rape’, was dropped by a senior prosecutor in stockholm almost four months before the eaw was issued. the reinstated investigation leading to the eaw saw a failure of the prosecutor to interview witnesses that could clear mr assange. independent legal opinion in england has said that the allegations against mr assange would not constitute rape under english law. the complainant’s lawyer in sweden has reportedly stated that the ladies themselves cannot tell if the acts in question constituted rapes, because they are not lawyers. nevertheless, the tick box on the eaw marked rape contains no definition or explanation of what constitutes the crime. mr assange remained in sweden for five weeks to answer the allegations, but he was not questioned as the investigation was unduly delayed. mr assange arrived in sweden less than a month after wikileaks leaked the afghanistan war logs and announced it had many more revelations to come. senior figures in the usa have called for mr assange to be assassinated or kidnapped, and for the us government to act as if it were at war with wikileaks, which they describe as a terrorist organisation. all this coincides with the convenient issuing of a european arrest warrant against him. sweden has a close relationship with the usa in terms of intelligence sharing and cooperation, calling into question sweden’s perceived neutrality. why would the usa want mr assange to be extradited to sweden? the americans are still building a case against him and do not know what they can charge him with, if anything. without a charge, the usa cannot extradite him from the uk, but they need him locked up somewhere while they work it out, preventing him from returning to australia. the european arrest warrant offers the perfect expedient. as i have said many times in this chamber, under the european arrest warrant, extradition – or rather judicial surrender, to use the correct term – is now merely a bureaucratic formality. there are simply no real safeguards. having said all that, my question to the council and the commission is not: is the eaw being abused for political purposes? it is: can it be abused? if the council and commission are honest, they will have to admit that it can. will they please do so now? in my opinion, the evidence shows that it is most certainly happening in the case of julian assange.
author. − madam president, no-one can deny the positive impact the european arrest warrant has had on cross-border crime. it has so far contributed to the extradition of almost 12 000 drug smugglers, child sex offenders, rapists and terrorists, and has avoided lengthy extradition procedures in the process. the speed of this tool has been invaluable, given the freedom to cross borders and increases in cross-border crime. however, what this tool was never intended for was to investigate and punish petty crimes such as the theft of a pig, stealing a chocolate bar or exceeding a bank overdraft limit. what you see today is a rare occurrence here. nearly all political groups and all nationalities collected here are saying that now is the time to review, re-evaluate and, if necessary, amend. proportionality, protection and redress are the key to reforming this tool. we are now currently working on the european investigation order, a partner to the european arrest warrant. it is essential that we do not make the same mistakes again. we must draft this new legislation with a clear working memory as to the flaws and obstacles of the european arrest warrant. there have been simply too many examples of substandard conditions for prisoners, too many misplaced warrants and too great a lack of redress for those who have been victims of errors. i fear that we are moving forwards with the eio whilst its very foundations, and the european arrest warrant on which it is based, are decidedly shaky. we need to rebuild the trust in, and value of, this tool and reserve it for only the most serious of crimes, whilst guaranteeing and maintaining the highest of standards in its use. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i would like to ask mr kirkhope this question because he agrees that the european arrest warrant needs review and re-evaluation – my view would be a lot stronger than that, but never mind. he mentioned the european investigation order and i believe he was saying that this could be a step too far. but is he aware that, in his own government, one of the first acts of the home secretary, theresa may, when coming into office was to opt into the european investigation order, which means we now cannot opt out and will be stuck with whatever comes through the legislative sausage machine, because this will be subject to qualified majority voting and the final outcome is something we cannot determine? is this another case of tory double-speak, where they speak out against the acts of the european union here but endorse them back home in our own parliament?
mr president, the position regarding the uk government with regard to both the european arrest warrant and the european investigation order is that clearly they feel they have an obligation – quite rightly – to do what is best for the uk in relation to cross-border crime. we have been the victims of an enormous amount of crime, and terrorism in particular, as the honourable gentleman is aware. i am sure that he would share with me our determination to stamp out this crime, and working together across borders is the best way to achieve it. of course the european investigation order needs careful implementation. but merely opting into it and to the concept of it, as has been done by the government, is not, of course, the final shout. what we need to see here is the detail of this order; we need to implement it effectively and make it work well alongside the arrest warrant. but the fact that we have opted in is a good indication that we are determined to deal with cross-border crime. i trust the honourable gentleman shares our wishes in that regard.
mr president, is mr díaz de mera aware that a fast-track extradition treaty was signed between the uk and spain in 2003, long before the european arrest warrant, and would the speaker perhaps consider that this is a better blueprint for dealing with serious crime, rather than the european arrest warrant with all the problems of which we are now hearing?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the situation for our group is very clear. we heard on the one hand from the council that, if a european arrest warrant is executed properly and effectively and not in the many trivial cases we have seen, its advantages outweigh those disadvantages. the commissioner set out what is a credible report – a serious report – which tells us that if we can deal with trivial cases and disproportionality and with the procedural guarantees, then the european arrest warrant can still be a valuable way of catching serious, organised criminals. we should not forget the 12 000 figure – i feel very strongly about the fact that in my constituency of london we caught the attempted bombers of july 2005. when we understand the serious and symbolic effect of these cases, the european arrest warrant can and should work. the oral question we have today for our group is very simple. we are now in the area of moving from the reports to the action, and we have a situation where we have two hard cases. one is the lack of proportionality. this will not be solved overnight, and i commend the commissioner (i am talking about judicial training) for ensuring that we fix the issue of trivial cases dominating and creating a credibility problem for the european arrest warrant. but that also requires the council (i am not referring just to hungary, i am talking about the member states) to help us in pushing forward the procedural guarantees, and the issue of unacceptable pre-trial detention periods for many citizens in my own country. these are the situations which create the problems for a tool which could be effective if used properly. but the hardest case is going to be creating an even playing field in relation to procedural defence rights. this is why within my group, which has [called for] the letter of rights, we take seriously both the quality and speed of the legislation which we need to ensure that the european arrest warrant can be the effective tool that it should be for catching serious, organised criminals, and that its credibility must not be diminished by the many trivial cases and uneven playing field that we currently see. this is the position we want to see for our group, and we believe the commitment is here. but we must pay close attention, particularly to the member states when they ask for the european arrest warrant to be effective but on the other hand do not carry out the actions to help us get the legislation to create that even playing field. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, claude moraes talked about the lack of proportionality, etc. we can all agree on that, but the one thing – the elephant in the room – that nobody has talked about this afternoon is the fact that the court cannot look at the prima facie evidence against the accused person and exercise any discretion about whether they should be extradited or not. we have many constituents affected by this. the most notable case is andrew symeou. i sat through the appeal court hearings and heard the judges. it was obvious from the look on their faces that they realised there was no real evidence against this boy; the evidence was contradictory, the statements appeared to have been concocted by the police, and in no way should he have been extradited. how would you address that problem and the fact that the courts cannot take into account the prima facie evidence, or lack of it, against an accused person?
mr president, for an arrest warrant, there has to be prima facie evidence. you cannot execute an arrest warrant without the judiciary understanding what the simple facts of the case are. in the andrew symeou case the underlying problems, i say to gerard batten, were procedural problems: the detention periods and court system after the arrest warrant was executed. you talk about the appeal procedure. it was the period after the execution of the arrest warrant which was problematic, and which we are trying to fix today in this debate.
mr president, i think i am right in saying that mr ziobro is from poland. i agreed with his last remark as i heard it in translation. it is often said that poland is one example of a country where there is no threshold test for the issuing of arrest warrants, either domestically or for european arrest warrants. has a reform in your criminal justice system been considered so that prosecutors have some discretion as to whether to issue an arrest warrant and do not have to pursue every single complaint? in that way the famous small offences like the stolen piglet would not be so much of a problem. we very much appreciate all the poles who are in the uk, especially in london, most of whom of course are not criminals. but, because there are lots of poles in the uk, most of whom are very welcome, we get lots of arrest warrants from poland.
mr president, in the anglo-american world the primary purpose of the law is to protect people from random arrest and arbitrary imprisonment. the law in continental europe, in particular the former eastern bloc, simply does not have that priority and it is ridiculous to pretend otherwise. under the european arrest warrant everybody in britain can be extradited – under bulgarian law, for example – and there is not much a british judge can do about it. to make matters worse, the british government has opted into the european investigation order, which is a further attack on the liberties of the british people. the liberal democrats, who sponsor all this, call themselves the party of civil liberties. this is piffle! the liberal democrats’ commitment to civil liberties comes to a grinding halt at calais. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
(microphone off until near end of first sentence) ...liberal democrat. is the earl of dartmouth aware that it was the liberal democrats, with support from the conservatives in the upper chamber of the british parliament, who managed to insert in the 2003 extradition act which implemented the european arrest warrant a power for a judge to refuse a surrender under a european arrest warrant if fundamental rights of that person would be breached. i am looking towards mr kirkhope, because his and my party cooperated on that. ukip just shouts impotently from the sidelines while we get on and do the business of making sure that fundamental rights are protected. you should be putting your emphasis on persuading the courts to invoke article 21 of the 2003 extradition act. i was there in the house of lords and i helped move that amendment.
nothing of what you have said has invalidated the measured criticisms of what we and others are saying now. i would also say that you are entirely mistaken if you think that better translation rights are any sort of cure at all for this flawed piece of legislation which is ruining people’s lives.
mr president, the arrest warrant hearings have very little in common with extradition hearings that preceded the 2003 act. even at the main hearing, the court does not consider the evidence but only 10 so-called legal bars to surrender. lack of evidence is no bar to extradition. even people accused of behaviour that is not an offence in the extraditing country can be surrendered under the european arrest warrant if the offence is one for which there is no requirement for dual criminality. whilst most of these are serious violent, sexual or dishonesty offences, the list also includes the nebulous thought-crime offences beloved in so many continental countries, so that the arrested person could be sent for trial, or rather automatic conviction, to one of those wretched places. the fact that such warrants are issued for the purpose of prosecuting a person on the grounds of his political opinions ought to constitute a legal bar to surrender, but i suspect that some political opinions would be less equal than others. we were sold the european arrest warrant on a promise that it would be used to send terrorists to justice, but the miscarriages of justice in the case of garry mann, deborah dark, edmond arapi, andrew symeou and many others, had no terrorist elements at all. worst of all have been the cases of people being extradited for questioning without a charge having been made. we must reinstate the requirement that a court will extradite a person only when there is compelling evidence that a serious offence under the extraditing country’s laws has been committed.
mr president, i had the honour to be the rapporteur in this house when the european arrest warrant was approved in 2001 and 2002. colleagues who were in the house at the time will recall that we urged the commission and the council to build more civil liberties safeguards into the legislation, and we secured from the commission a commitment to a draft directive on the rights of defendants in criminal legal proceedings. not all of the safeguards we called for were inserted, and the draft directive on defendants’ rights sat for many years in the council’s in-tray. the results of these omissions are at the root of this debate today. in 2002 parliament had no powers of codecision in these matters. nonetheless we believed that, on balance, the arrest warrant was the right move. as many speakers have said in this debate, the arrest warrant is a hugely valuable tool in the fight against cross-border crime. it has brought justice to many victims. where problems have arisen, they have come from poor implementation into national law, from frivolous use of the warrant for petty crimes and from unacceptable conditions of detention. all of these can, must and are being dealt with. i salute the authors of the oral questions today, with the exception of one who opposes all judicial cooperation, for speeding up the process of improving it.
mr president, i too personally believe this whole debate needs a dose of common sense now. i still believe that some sort of european arrest warrant is a necessary tool to fight crime and terrorism across the union, particularly given the huge free movement of people now moving between member states, including – sadly – criminals. i also believe that the number of errors or miscarriages is relatively small – but still too many. we must now not throw the baby out with the bathwater, which is what some of the colleagues in this house would like. we need to seriously review the workings of the arrest warrant to include only a limited list of serious crimes – always satisfying the condition of double criminality – as being the only ones justiciable under the european arrest warrant. we must also respect fundamental human rights and include safeguards like habeas corpus. the large majority of uk-surrendered individuals were actually, as it turned out, migrants from other states of the european union charged with crimes – normally major crimes, not petty crimes. it is ironic that ukip, which was opposed to their right to come to the uk in the first place, is now trying to make it extremely difficult and expensive for the british taxpayer to send them back to their countries to face justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, russia is an important partner for the eu in many respects. as a permanent member of the un security council, russia exercises a potentially decisive influence on international affairs, from our relations with north korea to its involvement in the un quartet. i also welcome recent calls by president medvedev for the libyan tyrant muammar gaddafi to leave power. i also hope that the kremlin will align itself with the rest of the international community on stopping iranian nuclear proliferation. i also accept that russia has economic interests in the former soviet republics, some of which are now – thankfully – gravitating away from moscow towards the eu. however, the eu should continue to insist that it will support and engage with these now-independent countries such as ukraine, and make sure that the door is left open to them in terms of euro-atlantic aspirations. in this regard i hope that the vice-president/high representative will raise the issue of georgia, parts of whose territory remain annexed and occupied illegally by russian soldiers, and help also to put pressure on russia to solve the transnistria question in moldova. i also accept that the commission is now making the suggestion that the eu-russia summit should be annual rather than every six months, which is a good idea and the way forward. russia is not a mature liberal democracy. neither is it a country which enjoys an independent judiciary. but whether we like it or not, we still have to engage with the bear.
madam president, canada’s prime minister, pierre trudeau, likened sharing a border with the usa to sharing a bed with an elephant. our union must share its bed with a bear. we must continue to try to develop relations in the context of the four common spaces and on the basis of last year’s partnership for modernisation. as the commissioner said, the last two years have seen improvements. the agreement on a gas advisory forum and the improved early warning mechanism are among these. progress this month in solving the transnistria conflict would be another positive step. however, as baroness ashton said last month after the khodorkovsky/lebedev judgment, and as the european court on human rights has concluded on many occasions, real progress requires respect for democracy and human rights and a stable and fair legal framework for business, which are too often absent in russia. a structured civil society dialogue would help; common action to fight climate change would help to build trust. but the russian bear still has a sore head and i advise the commission to carry to nizhny novgorod not only a jar of honey but also a large net.
i have received six motions for resolution tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (9 june 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu relations with mongolia by paolo bartolozzi, vito bonsignore, mario mauro, gabriele albertini, roberta angelilli, aldo patriciello, lara comi, giovanni collino, salvatore iacolino, raffaele baldassarre, cristiana muscardini, barbara matera, erminia mazzoni, sergio paolo frances silvestris, carlo fidanza, iva zanicchi, alfredo pallone, licia ronzulli, antonio cancian, alfredo antoniozzi, giovanni la via, marco scurria, sergio berlato, amalia sartori, elisabetta gardini, potito salatto, alfreds rubiks, bart staes, britta thomsen, piotr borys, joachim zeller, niccolò rinaldi, bogdan kazimierz marcinkiewicz, jaromír kohlíček, hannes swoboda, vilja savisaar-toomast, herbert dorfmann, jarosław kalinowski, kyriacos triantaphyllides, béla kovács, inese vaidere, elisabeth jeggle, ivari padar, vilija blinkevičiūtė, rolandas paksas, ivars godmanis (o-000091/2011 – b7-0410/2011).
the debate is closed.
madam president, i have a point of order under rule 96 by prearrangement with the president, whom i would ask to write to the formula one teams association – including lotus in my own constituency – which made clear in a letter yesterday that it objected to a rearranged bahrain grand prix on logistical grounds. i would ask the president, in that letter, to remind those teams that there is a fine tradition of sportspeople withdrawing from events on human rights grounds – from muhammad ali and vietnam to cricketers refusing to go to south africa under apartheid and athletes to the moscow olympics. i would also ask the president to make it clear on behalf of the european parliament that should any of the teams withdraw on human rights grounds they would have the support of this parliament, and that the bloodied name of bahrain should not stand, this year, alongside the proud european names of the nürburgring, monza, monaco and silverstone.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i absolutely agree with what mrs harkin has just said. in my constituency in scotland it is the elderly and people who run bed-and-breakfast establishments or self-catering holiday cottages that fall foul of this criminal activity. they enter addresses into this directory and then receive a bill for a thousand euros. the elderly are terrified when they get these threatening letters from the supposedly legal representatives of these companies. this is a cross-border criminal activity. these companies give their identities and they give their addresses. we have to track them down, close them down, prosecute them and protect the citizens of the european union. when any member of the public contacts me in my constituency, i simply say to them to write back to the company and tell it to send all future correspondence to me. they never hear another thing. however, these people must also be imprisoned.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this motion is badly needed. even though we have the 2006 directive it is plain that it is not working as well as it should. the companies we have heard of exist solely to swindle unsuspecting and sometimes over-stretched organisations, and i find that particularly outrageous when they are damaging community enterprises, often with limited budgets. using tactics like those of bully-boys and racketeers, they dangle promises in front of unsuspecting people, but i think the message has got to be that if an offer seems to be too good to be true, then most probably it is. these companies are like predatory sharks and they should be stopped. certainly our group welcomes this resolution, it is very timely and we will be supporting it, as it calls on the commission to require member states to adequately enforce the directive.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i know the european city guide best and, in spite of attempts to close it down, this menace continues. in the uk in may 2008, the misleading marketing regulations came into force. they outlaw using the small print of any document to hide the true cost of a service. so the office of fair trading can now take action against uk companies, but there is a serious drawback. the oft does not have jurisdiction to tackle any scams from elsewhere, including from other member states, so the problem continues and i continue to receive my share of complaints. more to the point, while they may operate elsewhere due to lax policing, why can my own government not prevent what comes from mainland europe? the answer to that lies at the heart of this useless eu, which has demolished national frontiers. the free movement of people, goods and services provides perfect cover for the people traffickers, the terrorists and for threatening, traumatising scams aimed at fleecing the unwary.
madam president, dodgy scams, which are fraudulent in nature and prey on small businesses using a veil of legitimacy – often with europe in their titles – must be made illegal. these scams do not just damage small businesses, which are threatened, harassed and bullied into paying fees for something they believed to be free, they damage the european union when we do not take firm action to help. it is the mantra of the european commission, after all, to ‘think small first’, yet i have been raising this issue, as many colleagues have said, for many, many years, and yet no direct action has been taken: why not? we hear about surveys, information gatherings, and stakeholder meetings. we need action not words, and if we say that we will only wait to the end of this year, or give it another few years, then that is just too little too late: we must act now. so given the nature of these scams and their eu-wide and cross-border nature, will the commission consider introducing a form of legal aid to assist smes in tackling these scams? these types of scams will continue until the commission takes tough action.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to share with you some extracts from the interim report of the uk chief inspector of nuclear installations: ‘we all need to adhere to the principal of continuous improvement. that means that, no matter how high the standards of nuclear design and subsequent operation are, the quest for improvement should never stop’. the uk nuclear regulatory system is largely non-prescriptive. that means that the industry must demonstrate to the regulator that it fully understands the hazards associated with its operations and knows how to control them. so we expect the industry to take the prime responsibility for learning lessons, rather than relying on the regulator to tell it what to do. conclusion number one reads: ‘in considering the direct causes of the fukushima accident, we see no reason for curtailing the operation of nuclear power plants or other nuclear facilities in the uk’. conclusion two reads: ‘in response to the fukushima accident, the uk nuclear power industry has reacted responsibly and appropriately, displaying leadership for safety and a strong safety culture in its response to date’. conclusion four reads: ‘to date, the consideration of the known circumstances of the fukushima accident has not revealed any gaps in scope or depth of the safety assessment principles for nuclear facilities in the uk’. in conclusion, let us remember the extraordinary nature of the earthquake and the strength of the tsunami that hit the fukushima installation and which has started all this process.
madam president, i would like to thank the honourable lady for accepting my question. i have two questions. would you first of all accept that this is not just a german debate and that there are other elements to this discussion? because it has seemed to be rather an internal german discussion and there are different views about this. secondly, would you not accept that the circumstances faced by fukushima were quite extraordinary and unprecedented, both in terms of the strength of the earthquake – the strongest ever experienced in japan – and the height of the tsunami, which reached a maximum, i am told, of 46 metres, and had an average height of 14 metres, conditions that we might not expect in europe?
madam president, would not ms harms accept that her position and the position of her group is that they are not interested in the stress tests: they are not interested in any objective evidence at all. their objective is to close down the nuclear industry and they have a fixed objective. would she not admit that this is actually true?
madam president, certain member states have jumped the gun on stress tests. as we have heard, the uk nuclear inspector, dr mike weightman, published his interim report even before the stress tests had been agreed. will the commission insist that all member states conduct the stress tests properly, and do not do their own lightweight version? i am particularly concerned that the uk government might go ahead with approving a whole new generation of nuclear power stations before the stress test procedure is concluded in june next year. commissioner, do you agree that this would be unwise in terms of european nuclear safety? will you make sure that information which cannot be disclosed publicly due to security concerns is at least shared in a secure forum, such as between national security services?
madam president, like other colleagues i believe that safety must come first. however, i also believe that nuclear power should be part of our future energy mix. it is low-carbon and it can provide a secure supply. for example, it will mean that prosperous european countries will not have to import energy from less prosperous countries, with all the problems that that can bring. it is also supported by communities like anglesey in north wales, who already have a nuclear power station. however, like all other colleagues, i also support stress tests – as does the uk – and i think all member states should give their commitment to those stress tests. they should also be done quickly, they should cover all eventualities and they should cover both nuclear plants and other facilities within the fuel cycle. this is such an important issue for us all. i believe europe needs nuclear power but it needs safe nuclear power.
mr president, over the past three months my office has sent emails, made phone calls and drafted lists to raise awareness of this declaration on missing persons in cyprus. the result has been a great success. today’s written declaration 10 has been passed with a strong and positive majority. i wish to thank the co-authors and give special thanks to charles tannock, who has spent every strasbourg session rallying support with me. i would also like to thank the declaration office and my staff, whose hard work made our job that much easier. in the gallery today we have a group of young people from nepomak, the world organisation for young overseas cypriots in the uk, who have come to see this declaration announced. they are the youth of today, on whom the future depends. support for this declaration signals parliament’s support for the future. i thank you for your support. (applause)
mr president, i would like to agree with the previous speaker. quite often it appears that whatever the problem, the answer seems to be from this place more eu and more regulation. harmonisation versus mutual recognition, imposed eu contract law that adds an administrative burden to small businesses. but yet what we really should be focusing on is making the eu work better. whatever your views on the eu, whether you are sceptical about further integration or you want more europe, we should be focusing on making the eu and the internal market work better, but also tackling cross-border fraud. for years since i have been an mep i have been receiving letters and emails from constituents who have inadvertently been misled into signing up for a business directory, then being invoiced for a rather large amount of money. rather than focusing on all the other stuff we focused on this week, let us make sure the eu works better. let us focus on reducing the administrative burden for small and medium-sized businesses and let us help eu citizens who have been affected by this cross-border fraud.
in writing. − i voted against the provision of external aid to south sudan of eur 200 million in development cooperation in order to assist south sudan to cope with the numerous humanitarian and socio-economic challenges in a context of reduced governance capacity and political fragility. as the eu is an undemocratic institution itself, and one that i strongly believe should not have a foreign policy agenda, i cannot endorse any third country activity by it. the uk is one of the world’s largest donors of foreign aid. it is essential that foreign aid and foreign policy remain the remit of individual member states and is not dictated at eu level, even if the recipient is in need and appropriate. in allowing the eu to forge a foreign policy agenda there will come a point when we have a situation involving a third country that divides member states and is not the unanimous wish of the union as a whole. such activity at eu level paves the way for increased competence with regard to external action, which is something i strongly disagree with.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on both sides in sudan, in the run-up to independence day on 9 july 2011, to present concrete plans on the setting-up and/or reform of their institutions in order for the two states to be viable as of that date. it also calls for the eu delegations in sudan and south sudan proactively to circulate and implement the recommendations of the recent eu election and referendum observation missions.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which reaffirms the urgent need for russia to implement fundamental principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and media freedom as a basis for cooperation and calls on russia to take concrete action to improve its human rights record and to protect journalists, human rights activists, minorities and opposition representatives from violence and intimidation.
in writing. − i voted against the motion for a resolution on misleading business directories as the uk operates its own misleading marketing regulations via the office of fair trading, which controls the regulation of open and honest trade and contracts within the uk. however, such regulations do not encompass misleading contracts in other member states. yet homogenising eu law on the issue would undermine british competence in this area and also open up further channels for eu businesses to exploit the british market as they may be able to circumvent eu law. in the uk, the chambers of commerce and uk trade and investments offer access to secure business directories and networking opportunities through programmes such as the overseas market introduction service, passport to export and even the european enterprise network. it is paramount that these directories are given prominence in the uk market and are not expunged by allowing eu companies to flood the british market under the aegis of eu trade legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which urges the commission to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically black-listing misleading practices by business directories
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as part of a sensible reaction by european politicians from 27 countries to this fraudulent behaviour. for too long companies, especially in my region of the south east of england, have been targeted by this unscrupulous practice. i have been told by constituents that they have been invited to advertise their business for no costs only to receive a large invoice with legal threats not long after. this practice heralds from spain but could happen elsewhere. the local authorities in spain should do far more to take on such tricksters and prosecute those involved in fraudulent behaviour.
author. − mr president, the illegal and unelected regime of andry rajoelina is riddled with corruption and has orchestrated serious human rights abuses in madagascar, yet rajoelina came to power pledging an end to corruption and human rights abuses that allegedly flourished under the ousted former president, marc ravalomanana. this irony cannot be lost on the long-suffering people of madagascar, many of whom live in abject poverty. the eu now needs to consider a substantial reinforcement of targeted measures against rajoelina and his henchmen and cronies and, if necessary, to invoke the cotonou agreement’s provisions on failures of governance and to apply the necessary sanctions. the african union (au) could do far more. we have heard many platitudes from the au, but we have seen little concrete action so far. such action should include brokering an agreement between rajoelina and ravalomanana, allowing the former president to return to madagascar without any risk or prejudice. rajoelina should also allow his rival to stand in the presidential election planned for september this year. sadly, the portents for stability and reconciliation in madagascar are not good. i hope that in the next few months matters will be resolved peacefully.
mr president, i have great respect for you, but surely it is up to the speaker the speed at which he chooses to speak, and that should be the choice of the speaker. the speakers in this parliament should not run the risk of having their speech wrecked by interruptions from the chair on behalf of the interpreters. could i put that point to you? (mixed reactions)
author. − mr president, the ecr group believes that capital punishment is a personal conscience issue for each mep and, although we acknowledge the eu’s common position opposing execution in all circumstances, the fact of the matter is that many millions of european citizens, our constituents, are still in favour of capital punishment. furthermore, this resolution refers to the potential death penalty being imposed on some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world, who thought nothing of conspiring to murder thousands of innocent people. indeed when reading this resolution i thought of my own constituents who were mercilessly blown up by al-qa’ida-inspired terrorists in london six years ago. the struggle against global islamic terrorism is an asymmetric war with unforeseen results and unprecedented consequences, and new jurisprudence internationally is now needed to address this. the detention camp in guantánamo bay is a reflection of this tragic situation. it is also a reflection on the fact that the united states is carrying a disproportionate share of the burden for the global war on terror. of course, all such trials by the us authorities – which after all is a country that is a democracy and shares our common values – must nevertheless be conducted fairly with all legal safeguards of due process, and ideally by civilian courts.
mr president, i would like to ask ms vergiat if it is true that her hatred is really directed towards the united states of america in its war against terror, rather than the issue of the death penalty? i have never heard her group condemn the execution of people in places like cuba, or even in china, where it is a common occurrence, unfortunately.
mr president, i have enormous respect for bernd posselt. the biggest democracy in the world is, of course, india. i have never heard the european union described as a country before. could he confirm whether this is the view of his group now: that the european union is a country alongside india, brazil, america, the great democracies of the world, as it were?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, guantánamo is important, but let us put it in perspective. the total number of detainees at guantánamo since it was opened is 775. if you look around this hemicycle now, there would be room here for all the 775 people that have ever been detained at guantánamo. of course this parliament is strongly concerned about individual liberty and the due process of law, and rightly so, but we should recognise that some detainees do present a problem. for example, there was a british citizen who, when arrested on the battlefield in afghanistan carrying weapons and wearing the black turban of the taliban, gave the explanation that he was in afghanistan in order to take a computer course. parliament’s concern for the absolute probity of the legal process at guantánamo is impressive. however, i put it to the house that the cause of individual liberty under the law in the world would be better served if parliament took more interest in the operations of the european arrest warrant. that european arrest warrant, by its nature, outflanks and bypasses legal protections from arbitrary arrest, and 500 million people in europe are subject to it, while there are now just 171 detainees at guantánamo.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, six years on from the orange revolution, ukrainian politics remain characterised by rivalry and tension. former prime minister tymoshenko and some members of the former government that she led are now being pursued through the courts for criminal acts allegedly committed whilst in office. these charges to me have a smell of being politically motivated. i fear that president yanukovych is trying to neutralise the only ukrainian political figure with enough gravitas, courage and popularity to challenge his authority. we should not forget that the orange revolution was a direct response to yanukovych’s attempt to steal, by fraud, in 2004 the presidential election. he was never prosecuted for that crime. mrs tymoshenko has substantial popular support in western ukraine and carries the hopes of millions of her compatriots with her. it is very curious that the latest charges relating to fraud against the medicines budget were not levelled against zinovii mytnyk, the deputy minister for heath at the time, who signed off on the deal, because he has now re-emerged, curiously, as the new health minister in yanukovych’s government. if yanukovych wants to reduce mrs tymoshenko’s political potency he should seek to do so in an open and democratic battle of ideas, not through the political manipulation of the justice system. and my question to mr vigenin, as the socialist group has links to yanukovych’s party of the regions, is: do you have confidence in the political impartiality of the general prosecutor’s office in ukraine? mr vigenin, could you answer that?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, every time i ask mr barroso what his plan b is, he says there is no need for one. mr barroso, every time i predict that another country is on the verge of a bail-out you say, ‘no no, there is no problem’. here we are, on the verge of the second greek bail-out, and you say, ‘there is no alternative’. we must continue down this route. we must ignore the fact that the spanish bond market is telling us that they are going to be next. what a fine mess you have got us into. you have a 100% record for being wrong with every single prediction about the euro and you say today that this package will put greece on the road to growth, but no it won’t. it will put greece on the road to a third bail-out, which we will be discussing in a just a few months’ time. i have to say i find it a truly sickening sight to see the country that actually invented democracy being bullied by you and the increasingly appalling international monetary fund and its people being told they have to accept this austerity package. they have to accept cutting their economy to a level that will put them in total economic depression. they are told there is no alternative to this; it is a form of sado-monetarism, and it is sending them crazy. they are on the streets and there is violence, and frankly this can only get worse. you have stripped them not just of money; you have stripped them of their democracy. what good europeans, really good europeans, would do, is provide an alternative to help the greeks re-establish their own currency, to allow them to devalue, to let them renegotiate their debts, because their debt-to-gdp ratio has passed the point of no return. then, and only then, can real austerity packages work. only then will the greek people accept they have got to make these cuts. if we carry on down the current road, it is the path to social and economic disaster. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, the united kingdom went through this exactly twenty years ago. we were part of the exchange rate mechanism. we were trapped, trying to peg ourselves against the deutschmark with interest rates that were double what they should have been. it cost 1 million british people their jobs unnecessarily. mercifully we crashed out of exchange rate mechanism, interest rates came down and we had a happy time during the 1990s. you cannot fuse together different economies with different rates of growth and with different patterns of trade across the world. we learned our lesson. we did not join the euro, thank god. those who did are, i am afraid, currently trapped inside an economic prison.
mr president, the presence of large numbers of alleged asylum seekers from libya and tunisia will be on the agenda. tunisia is a country that has toppled its dictator, so what are these tunisians fleeing from? democracy? perhaps we should expect to see mr ben ali, a recently retired dictator, at the head of the queue. libya is a war zone. but people do not become asylum seekers simply because they live in a dangerous country. there must be something about that particular person that places that person in jeopardy. the argument seems to be about whether italy or malta should accept them for settlement because they are the first country they reached, or whether they should be accepted for settlement by other member states. my answer is that neither should accept them for settlement and they should sooner or later be returned to north africa. if eu asylum rules really say that a mere claim to be an asylum seeker is enough to create an obligation to accept them, then the rules must be changed. rules are man-made and can be unmade. if that means member states, and indeed the eu itself, repudiating other international agreements, then so be it. member states have been changed beyond recognition by migration. the time has come to stop the flow and encourage its reversal. the accession of croatia is also on the agenda. what steps will the eu take to ensure the referendum will be held fairly, with both sides being heard and equal amounts of money being spent? i suspect that a free and fair referendum in not on the cards. the country will be deluged with eu propaganda and those arguing against croatia’s accession will be phased out of the debate.
mr president, the big question facing eu leaders tomorrow is whether they are up to the task of saving european achievements in the common currency and free-movement zone. ‘more europe’ is not the answer to everything, but on key issues like these we do need strengthened ability for european decision-making. i welcome president barroso’s much tougher statement today than in our debate on schengen and migration in may. he should then have read the riot act to italy and france in the way that manfred weber of the ppe did earlier in this debate. in an excellent article published in the financial times yesterday, mario monti deplored both the excessive deference to big member states and the ‘culture of politeness’ in the council, which meant that member states refused to call each other to account for failings. i would rather more crudely call it: ‘i will scratch your back if you scratch mine’. this was disastrous over the issue of greece’s fraudulent statistics. we need eu-level powers of decision and action on major issues, but we also need the honesty without which mutual trust is impossible.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think the world-renowned scottish poet rabbie burns might have described this report as a bit of a ‘cow’rin, tim’rous beastie’ in its original form. thankfully, through the good work that albert deß and all the other shadow rapporteurs have put in over the last months of negotiations, we now have a report that has some real substance and one that has many areas that we can support. i believe, however, that it falls short in one important area, in that it fails to answer the fundamental question asked by our taxpayers and our consumers who pay for the common agricultural policy: what are the direct decoupled payments for? that is a fundamental question that we all need to face up to. there is no longer any linkage with food production because they are decoupled. there is a link to public goods through cross-compliance, but i do not think this fundamentally answers that question. i believe that the report should perhaps have gone a little further in responding to that question by backing the idea of a more targeted direct payment, containing a major incentive to develop a more sustainable and competitive model of agriculture, and giving the possibility of a targeting of payments at lfa areas – the so-called greening of the direct payments, which i believe the commissioner is very much favour of. if we move down that road, i believe it gives us the ability to respond to that question and explain to the public exactly what direct payments are for. it also negates the call for caps and ceilings to be put on aids because, if there are public goods attached to the direct payments across all the direct payments, then the bigger the farmer, the more public goods that farmer will deliver. so there is no need to cap them. i believe that the report hints at that direction and i welcome the move towards that type of model. i hope we can improve the report tomorrow. if we do so, our group will certainly be happy to support it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i also take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur. he certainly proved during the time that negotiations were going on that he had a very big back indeed, because there were a lot of people throwing knives at him during that period. so he proved to be very resilient in his task, and he got there. the first thing i want to do is to welcome the fact that it is going to be a pillar two structure, because i think that is what we are all agreed on. i listened to the talk about greening. when you speak about greening it means different things to different people in different countries, including how it is applied. we have got to get our heads around this somehow. it is not a simple throw-away line that you can use in some way or other, because it is going to have a tremendous effect down the line. mr le foll is right. if the money is not there at the end of the day, there is little we can do in many of these areas. we have got to be responsible, and we have got to be responsible as a parliament as we move towards the legal text that the commissioner will bring forward in the late autumn of this year. that is going to be a tremendous challenge for us in this parliament. for the first time we are going to have a responsibility, a say, and be part of the final decision-making process. so from that point of view, i am opposed to the present text when it talks about capping. i will be supporting the amendments that have been put forward to reduce the degree. this is something that we have got to talk about more but, as i said, it will all be no good if the budget is not there. we have got to look at how we spend the money. are we spending our money as wisely as we can? is there not too much of it going on administration? is there not too much going on bureaucracy and red tape? and is not enough being given towards food security? again like greening, people talk about food security as a throw-away line. what are we doing to achieve food security? we could be facing a crisis in the next nine or ten years. there are fewer farmers, fewer people working; this is where i think we have to concentrate in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank mr deß for a comprehensive report. like other speakers, i would like to emphasise the importance of an adequate budget for the new cap. i believe that it is hugely important to base our budget on the arguments around food security. it is estimated that, by 2050, we will need a 70% increase in global agricultural production. i would argue that the new cap should aid this and keep that production within europe. we should not be doing anything to hamper the food production base that we already have. i welcome the clear support for the two-pillar structure and i also welcome today’s affirmation from the commissioner of his support for that as well. however, i would have to add that i do not want to see the support for greening in pillar one imposing further burdens and costs on our farmers. for that reason i would like to see flexibility at national and regional level, given the wide diversity of farm structures and land bases across the eu.
madam president, whilst the term ‘greening’ of pillar one may appeal to armchair farmers, it will pose major problems to heavy-land farmers who could well abandon land rather than attempt to plant it in the spring. had this policy been enforced this year, it would have resulted in total crop failures. proper inspection and enforcement of greening measures will also be impossible. to be effective, the capping of single farm payments will need to be severe. this will immediately motivate farmers to formally split their businesses with their spouses so that the full payment is retained on both divisions. added to that, i am informed that the savings made from capping will accrue to the eu and not the member state that actually generated the savings. cultivation of gm crops should be the decision of individual member states. the suggestion that no single farm payment can be received by farmers who cultivate these crops is utterly nonsensical. the world is short of food. we should be encouraging the uptake of new farming technology and not vilifying it. i hope the last three winters will have convinced all of you that there is no threat to us from global warming.
madam president, i would echo group colleagues and other colleagues in adding my own congratulations to our rapporteur. this has not been an easy job for him – or indeed any of us – and the report before us has been much improved through joint working and has much to admire within it. i particularly like the idea of the continuation of direct payments and the explicit removal of the historical reference values in paragraph 15 and the fairer distribution between member states, and within member states in the regions and nations within them, in paragraph 16. coming from scotland, i am particularly glad to see a strong statement in favour of less favoured areas in paragraph 82. i know that farmers in scotland – and everywhere else too – will be glad to see paragraph 44, which contains an explicit statement that cross-compliance should be risk-based and proportional. commissioner, perhaps you could mention that paragraph in particular to some of your auditor colleagues. while there is much to admire in this report, let us be honest with ourselves and with our voters. unless we have paragraph 1, all of this is pointless – and paragraph 1, where we call for a strong and sustainable cap with a budget commensurate with the ambitious objectives, will be pointless too. like other colleagues, i wish to express my own concern, not least at today’s rumours that president barroso is looking to make swingeing cuts to the budget and pillar two in particular. commissioner, you are going to need all the allies you can get in these discussions within the commission and with the member states. we must have a cap that is properly funded and properly ambitious for our farmers and our citizens. european agriculture has a great story to tell. now is not the time to fall out over minutiae.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh thuarascáil an uasail deß ar leasú an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt), agus gabhaim buíochas leis as ucht a chuid oibre. léireoidh vóta na seachtaine seo cad é a bhfuil parlaimint na heorpa ag súil lena fheiceáil sna moltaí reachtaíochta ar cbt. beidh an vóta buiséid, atá ag teacht aníos, ríthábhachtach chomh maith le gur féidir maoiniú oiriúnach do thalmhaíocht amach anseo a chinntiú. is gá dúinn cbt a fheiceáil atá láidir agus inbhuanaithe – bunaithe ar dhá cholún – a choinneoidh feirmeoirí ar an talamh, a chinnteoidh cosaint an chomhshaoil, a chuirfidh geilleagar tuaithe chun cinn agus a sholáthróidh cothromaíocht agus follasacht do gach duine a oibríonn sa bhiashlabhra. is gá d’imeachtaí glasaithe atá ag déileáil leis an chomhshaol i gcolún 1 a bheith soiléir, deartha mar is ceart agus furasta a thomhas, agus ní mór maoiniú do cholún 2 a bheith láidir agus cóir.
madam president, parliament’s demand to maintain, if not increase, the agricultural budget is in my view highly optimistic. these are tough times and budgets are not limitless. in my view, these proposals will need a reality check when the overall eu budget is determined some time next year. we have to get back to the real priorities of the common agricultural policy. food security, food safety, biodiversity, climate change, new technologies and creating a viable, competitive market-led industry have to be the focus. in my view, the commission’s proposals have lost the direction which we had from the previous two reports. they lack focus and they are too complicated. i am happy to say that, in his proposals, albert deß has set out a very sensible framework in which we can develop future reform.
madam president, thank you to mr deß for a very interesting and informative report. inevitably, on an issue of this complexity, there are bits you agree with and bits you do not. with 42% of our european expenditure going on the cap, it is vital that we provide complete accountability to our citizens. most people, in the face of rising food prices – sharply rising food prices – and dire warnings about lack of supply, will be expecting to see a cap which focuses clearly on increasing productivity and efficiency. yes, we have to take care of the environment – i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we know that – but we are in real danger here of creating a report with a rhetoric moving into things like ‘greening pillar one’; we are talking about moving away from the real focus, which is efficiency. on that basis, i do not support the capping of payments to large farms. this move will be institutionalising inefficiency and there is no justification for it.
madam president, my party favours withdrawal from the eu altogether, and therefore from the cap. however, the reality is that we are in it and we have got to make the best of it. what do we think of the deß report? well it is a bit like the legendary curate’s egg. parts of it are good. the idea of making direct payments conditional upon cross-compliance with environmental protection and landscape management is potentially beneficial, but only as long as they are not tied to the semi-religious precepts of climate change and social diversity nonsense. the report recognises that the agricultural sector must continue to be supported by government price intervention, because quantities produced cannot be predicted or planned precisely and demand for agricultural products is low in price elasticity. that is important to ensure food security and avoid price volatility. the most important thing from our point of view is that the uk must cease to be a net contributor to the cost of the cap.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking the european council. we can all see the incredibly sensitive situation in europe and especially in the euro zone which has required different countries to work together in a way that has never been seen before. we can see the vital need to improve competitiveness and rebuild public finances in a sustainable manner. over recent days, weeks and months, we have constantly seen ministers from member states coming together to try to help find ways out of each other’s individual problems. in addition, never before have i seen such a desire from members of the public to understand where public money is spent. so let me first talk about the directive that i have worked on. the directive sets out a series of requirements in accounting statistics, forecasting and budgetary processes. let us not forget that inadequate budget planning and inaccurate information compounded this crisis. it is a council directive, not a co-legislative report, and the council has debated this extensively. member states themselves have agreed that they will adopt fiscal planning horizons of at least three years to include all levels of government and government funds in their budget processes and ensure that information on, for example, contingent liabilities is disclosed. accounting and forecasting performance will be independently evaluated. let me say that many of the member states already comply with large parts of this directive, but implementing this minimum series of requirements will introduce discipline and restore confidence, and is a first small step back on the path to stability in public finances. in addition, member states themselves have agreed that they will each introduce their own legislation on fiscal rules – not necessarily german constitution debt breaks – but rules tailor-made in each country to keep them in line with their obligations under the treaty. now this is sensitive as well because different countries have different obligations under the treaty and for that reason that section does not apply to the uk. during the negotiations on the wider ‘six pack’ a number of suggestions for improving this council directive were made, many by the european central bank and by members of this house. the council has worked in good faith to try and improve the directive where appropriate and improve transparency, but without stepping on the sensitive issues relating to individual national constitutions. briefly on the other directives. through these negotiations i have tried to be constructive in allowing euro zone member states in particular to set up what rules and sanctions they see necessary to underpin their stability. i have not supported colleagues who think the solution is just a stronger role for the european parliament. over the weekend and on monday night, the council tried to offer a final compromise on an outstanding issue of votes in the european council. whilst this is not, in my opinion, a deeply significant issue in my own member state – as we do not intend to join the euro and resulting fines do not apply to us – it is an extremely difficult and contentious issue in many countries, including those who intend to join. this is a time to try to understand each other’s problems but also respect each other’s differences. earlier this week i warned colleagues that heading into a direct confrontation between parliament and the council on an issue that i did not believe i could explain to any man on the street would not be a responsible position of this parliament. indeed, i said i thought it would be irresponsible. and this parliament’s approach on that issue is not supported by many of my group’s members. i cannot support parliament’s changes to the council text on the macroeconomic imbalances and i would like to see in the weeks ahead more clarity on the different positions between euro zone and non-euro-zone member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, you will not find many members in this room who disagree with the need to drag down debt and deficits to reasonable levels in the years ahead. my group certainly takes the view that we need to do that. this is not about political confrontation between fiscally virtuous or fiscally irresponsible members in this house. the division between you and us and between progressives and conservatives here in the house is about how we return to sound public finances, at what economic and social cost, at what cost for the future ability of europe to compete in a global market. you stick to the idea, commissioner, that there is no alternative to your austerity-only agenda. we think that this is very wrong. in our view, your approach and that of the right-wing majority in the council pose the biggest threat to the very future of the european idea because they are destroying the notion of belonging to a community, the notions of solidarity and cohesion. the vast majority of the millions who have lost their jobs during this crisis are unemployed still today. what message does the council and commission have for them? or for the millions whose jobs are in jeopardy or who are living in poverty? what message for the hundreds of millions of people who are suffering as a result of cutbacks in public provision, in healthcare, in education? what message for them? what message from the council this week? well, i expect nothing quite frankly, nothing. this week’s council will not produce a single ray of hope for hardworking people, for the unemployed or the young people who are hurting so much. they have been unfairly and severely hit by the crisis that was not of their making and now they will be hit again to repair the damage they did not cause. your political and economic agenda is totally unacceptable to us on this side of the house. throughout the legislative process, we have suggested sensible and balanced amendments to the commission’s proposals, we have proposed firmly connecting national reform and stability and growth programmes using the first as a solid vehicle for the necessary promotion of public investment we made proposals to maintain sensible levels of productive public investment and we have proposed making the new rules clearly anti-cyclical. i could go on, but the reality is that today’s economic and social agenda has been hijacked by the right. there is not even space for moderate political approaches, let alone more progressive ones. and please, commissioner rehn, do not tell me that these policies i am denouncing are being pursued by socialist governments. you know, at a time when even the strongest economies in europe need to bow to the demands of an irresponsible and increasingly dangerous financial sector, that no member state can change this agenda alone. in the end, i wonder who will benefit from the decisions that will be made this week. it seems to me that the only people who will benefit are those who have caused the whole mess in the first place, the financial sector, and i think that is a disgrace.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, so far we have found agreement on almost all of the package and have demonstrated that codecision is working, with thanks to the hard work of the hungarian presidency and of course to andrás kármán in particular, and to the parliament negotiating team and the commission. the presidency and commission have already highlighted numerous – i think it was 50 – parliament additions. these include a legal framework for the semester and surveillance of national reform programmes, independence of national statistical offices and fines for fraud, commission surveillance missions, an economic dialogue between all stakeholders, and substantially greater transparency throughout. we cannot conceal, though, that there have been significant differences in the negotiation of the package. for my part, i do not see this as political grandstanding but rather the search for ownership, to enable ownership by the people. what divides us in parliament differs from our issues with the council but, however difficult it may be, we have to stand up to our democratic duty. it is this house that will confer ownership. some prefer intergovernmentalism. given that the agreed text is acknowledged as better than the council general approach, this does not make sense. nor does it make sense in the search for ownership – so distinctly missing in much of the response to the crisis and so much a consequence of intergovernmental decisions. from the realisation that the stability fund facilities had to be larger, to recognising the fact that punitive interest rates do not give sustainability and the chance to return to the markets, this house has not been afraid to lead and the council has followed. we are stronger when we work together and i believe the final differences can be resolved.
mr president, i find myself in a difficult position in this debate as i believe that strong fiscal rules are necessary for a strong currency and a strong economy. this, i believe, was the fundamental reason why my country did not join the euro. monetary union was always going to be difficult without significant steps towards economic union and it is this latter requirement which means i do not think the uk will ever join the euro. for my political group here in parliament, national sovereignty over decisions on economic policy is a fundamental principle. if all six of these reports and their rules only apply to the euro zone, we would be able to more actively support the euro group in their decision to strengthen the principles that underpin their monetary union. if all the member states who use the euro want to strengthen and deepen the coordination of their economic policies, then that should be their decision. the uk and other non-euro-zone countries want to be good neighbours. however, attempts to bind those of us outside the euro zone with targets and processes designed to harmonise economic policy are unacceptable. i do not wish to see the euro zone in prolonged difficulty, but the ecr cannot support eu legislation that transfers any further powers away from national governments who are currently outside of that euro zone. all member states will hopefully have learned the lessons of the crisis, namely that a balanced budget and strong fiscal discipline are rewarded by lower funding costs in the financial markets, and that honesty in statistical reporting is essential for continued market confidence. fundamentally, a strong euro zone and the euro as a global currency are in all of our interests. new rules need to ensure it is made stronger and more sustainable.
mr president, although the united kingdom is not a member of the euro zone – and i hope it never will be – we have a vested interest in its success. i wish the euro zone well and i regret that i am unable to support the proposals on economic governance we are debating tonight. the proposals before us grant the commission sweeping new powers. had these powers been limited to euro zone countries alone, i would not have objected, but instead we see the commission and many members in this parliament – including ms wortmann-kool, for whom i have the utmost respect – using the crisis in the euro zone as an excuse to extend the power of the eu into the economic governance of the united kingdom and other countries who do not use the euro. i was not elected to grant the eu more powers over the way the united kingdom governs its affairs and i shall therefore vote against these proposals.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are discussing today a proposal from the commission and thus a subject which concerns europe and which has been placed on the agenda of this parliament for the second time. the commission's first proposal was not adopted. we believe that the highest safety standards for the use of nuclear energy for whatever purpose and the highest standards for disposal are both appropriate and appropriate at european level. i thank mrs jordan cizelj for her comprehensive report, the work of the last few weeks, and also her shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy and the other committees. you have done a very relevant and competent job, as my officials say. we are pleased that the commission proposal has been accepted in principle. the proposal is intended to be an important building block for the development of a comprehensive european legal and regulatory security structure at the highest possible level. i am pleased that you have agreed in principle to the european legal framework as such, to your support for our proposals on responsibility, accountability for national programmes, clear work and time schedules, clear funding, information and early and full involvement of the public in any national implementation process. we want to work together to ensure that the disposal routes and their safety are thoroughly and thoroughly tested, especially as they will be stored for very long periods. many of your proposals, which you have drawn up, we consider to be well-informed. they serve and reinforce the commission's cause. i would like to make a supplementary comment on four specific points. firstly, the basic principle: we do not want to regulate everything, not every detail, along the basic idea of subsidiarity. the starting point varies from one member state to another. we want to set a european legal framework. the main points which are important for safety and standards are included in the draft. for example, we leave room for the type of citizen participation, for questions of training of employees and managers, for details of funding models not of funding quality , and we also explicitly leave the modulation for terminals built and/or operated jointly by several member states. if you wish, we can make recommendations here, if this is to be specified in the further procedure. i am sure that this proposal will not be the last one for the next 20 years. i expect that, particularly in the next two to five years, further good additions or corrections will be useful. the commission therefore expressly proposes that you all amend it at the right time, in order to learn from the experience gained and to improve the directive. secondly, when we consider the question of the recoverability and reversibility of the stored fuel and waste, the principle is that each storage site should be suitable and safe for permanent, final storage, both geologically and technically, as well as in terms of what is happening to construction. but we are sensitive to developments in research and science. in these weeks, evidence is mounting that in the foreseeable future - the next decade - a next or next generation of science, waste can be better managed in recycling or storage than we know today. we therefore consider the option of retrievability and, in the meantime, of permanent accessibility and security to be equally important and we want to make this possible in national legislation, perhaps even clarifying it in the preamble. thirdly, we expressly support the rapporteur's view of the importance of adequate funding for national waste disposal programmes. the commission's proposal on financing has therefore incorporated important provisions aimed at ensuring that future generations are not placed under disproportionate burdens. we therefore want to ensure that adequate funding is provided in a timely manner and in accordance with the polluter pays principle, that there are detailed and reliable cost forecasts in the national programmes and that information is provided to workers and the public on all disposal issues. the financing must also be made transparent accordingly. we also support the proposals that the financing of disposal must be ensured over long, durable periods. we shall also be representing this in the council in your interest. the last point is the question of exports: the principle of our proposal is that each member state, whether or not it has nuclear power stations, and how many of them it has, and how much waste it has to deal with in general - even without nuclear power stations, each member state has nuclear waste from large-scale medical equipment and industrial research - must take care of its own tasks and must always find bilateral agreements and solutions with other member states. but in principle exporting to third countries cannot be in our european interest. i can say from my own country that in the 1970s and 1980s a great deal of special industrial waste was exported from germany to the former gdr and eastern europe, where it was stored in landfills for a fee, which were far from the state of the art and the best protection of the environment and people. that's the kind of concern you have to have here. the commission is therefore prepared to adopt any possible restrictive solution, export bans, export restrictions, and we would appeal to parliament to support a restrictive solution rather than an opening up on this issue. the more we do so, the more we have a chance in the council of not having the procedure end with a watered-down version of the export restrictions. for today, thank you for your constructive cooperation. i am sure that parliament will return to this subject in a few years' time with a view to deepening and improving the present first directive.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − madam president, let us hope that, when we come to review this directive, we can do it on a different legal basis. our committee took the view that the legal basis should be article 153 of the treaty, as this matter directly concerns health and safety. we also underlined the importance of providing information and genuine consultation with workers concerning the safety case and safety assessments, not only of sites dealing with spent fuel and radioactive waste, but also as regards how these should be transported, and the need for a rigorous and effective inspection regime with sanctions that are effective, dissuasive and proportionate. we also want to see that all licence holders ensure thorough and ongoing training of all involved in dealing with these substances, including subcontractors – potentially a weak link in the safety chain – casual workers and all others working on site, whatever their job. we also took the view that there was no easy divide between civil and military waste, given that civilians may well handle military waste these days.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, nuclear waste is a problem we just have to deal with. even if all nuclear reactors were shut down tomorrow, there would still be a legacy of waste from half a century of nuclear generation and from a variety of other activities. since we cannot just wish it out of existence, we need to deal with nuclear waste in the most responsible way possible. that means making sure that radioactive waste remains under eu control and scrutiny. once nuclear waste is outside european borders, we cannot guarantee how it is managed. for that reason, the alde group strongly supports the commissioner’s position and insists on maintaining the status quo. the export of radioactive waste to third countries must be banned. a particular problem with nuclear waste is the sheer timescale of the danger that it poses. ten thousand years ago we were living in caves. how can we possibly know what human society and planet earth will look like ten thousand years from now? for that reason we have to future-proof the decisions that we take today. at the moment the geological storage of nuclear waste may very generally seem to be the least worst option, but advances in science could potentially turn that conclusion on its head. i therefore welcome the commissioner’s remarks on this. for that reason, including the revision clause in this directive is common sense. finally, i have to point out, as a number of colleagues before me have done, just how absurd it is that the european parliament is merely consulted and has no real say on this directive, upon which the safety of so many future generations depends.
madam president, the recent events in japan certainly reminded us of the potential problems associated with harnessing nuclear energy and disposing of spent fuel. however, in a world challenged by energy shortages, we need to remain open-minded. we must try to encourage all forms of energy production – from renewable, sustainable energies to investing in safe nuclear plants. when dealing with nuclear energy, safety and the transparency of procedures are two important issues which need to be constantly attended to. the answer is not necessarily to shut down plants, as germany is planning to do, but rather to ensure that we are following the strictest safety programmes when it comes to dealing with this form of energy and the waste it produces. nuclear energy has great potential to serve europe, but we need to be realistic. let us be proactive in making nuclear energy work for us now and in the future, and work with this report.
madam president, less than a year ago i set up a cross-party petition for a referendum in the uk in respect of membership of the european union. the campaign has attracted high-profile support from across the political spectrum. what these people have railed against is the eu obsession of creating a european federal state, ignoring the will of the people and democracy. one cannot ignore the will of people forever. my constituents constantly come to me and say, ‘when are we going to get a say on our membership of the european union?’ the will of the people across europe has been ignored, a single currency has been created, against the will of the people of europe, and look what problems have been created. there have been referenda in member states and they have been ignored. the people from my constituency, the people across the uk and the people across the european union are saying, ‘let the people decide’. the professional politicians have made a mess. let the people decide.
madam president, farming is the heart of the welsh economy, yet under increasing eu legislation welsh farmers are prevented from competing successfully, despite standards being some of the highest in europe. under eid regulations, farmers are fined for inaccurate data, despite serious faults with the technology. i have presented this issue to the commission on numerous occasions, as have representatives from many member states. welsh farmers feel the flawed eid system amounts to a stealth tax. on another matter, welsh cattle under 24 months of age cannot be labelled as welsh under pgi legislation. the same is not true in scotland, where the beef industry can label meat from any age of animal with the country stamp. wales is producing fantastic beef and must be able to label it as welsh. trade in the global market depends upon a country’s produce being promoted. these are significant matters for hundreds of farmers in wales who run high-quality businesses that in many cases have been in families for generations. i demand explanations.
in writing. – when my own country, scotland, passed a climate change act in 2009 it called for a 42% emissions cut by 2020. these targets are ambitious but we consider them a vital part of our efforts against climate change. my colleague mr eickhout has highlighted the numerous benefits to the eu of having more ambitious targets, and moves within this parliament to reduce our ambitions will be rejected by europe’s citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, while debating how greece can be rescued from a default that could cause an economic and financial storm around the world, this house is asking to increase its own budget for 2012 by almost 5%. that is simply unsellable to taxpayers around europe and it does not enhance the credibility of the eu institutions. the eu budget has not taken us out of the crisis, and nor will it do so. there are several areas of the budget where we all know we could be cutting expenditure. failed projects should be discontinued. funding of projects where irregularities have occurred or funding to regions where citizens’ rights are being disregarded should simply be stopped. if common sense prevails, this parliament will vote for a reduction of the eu budget for 2012. if this is not the case, the eu’s already embattled citizens will have to rely on their heads of state to defend them.
mr president, i would like to extend my congratulations to the rapporteur. she has a very difficult job to do in these circumstances where the ambitions are set out in the 2020 strategy, and there are few who would disagree with the need to finance a range of different projects. the real problem is how to finance these ambitions in what are today even more dire circumstances – as we see in the european council and in the discussions about the euro, and as my colleague, mr bokros, has mentioned. our group considers that we need to focus more attention on the question of value for money and on those areas of the budget where we could actually cut back. the commission has begun to indicate this, with zero expenditure on administration, but there are perhaps other areas of the budget on which we have not yet really focused in the budget procedure. as we come into the autumn, we need a serious examination, and we have put down some 60 questions to the commission on this matter, with the aim of identifying where we are getting poor implementation. otherwise, like the cynic in oscar wilde’s nice definition, we will reach a position where we know ‘the price of everything and the value of nothing’.
mr president, i think we all know that this year’s budget and trilogue are going to be difficult. therefore, as a parliament, we need to be clear on what our priorities are and be prepared to fight for them. in other words, we should be prepared to look at reallocating resources to our priorities. in my view, our priorities should be policies which promote jobs and growth across the eu, especially at a time when member states are cutting back on their spending. for example, cohesion policy and structural funds are key to encouraging growth in our regions. therefore they need adequate funding, and i support the increase for the structural funds. research and development in our universities and academic institutions are also important. innovation is vital and we can turn research and development into projects, businesses and jobs. infrastructure investment is also crucial. investment in transport, our energy networks and broadband expansion, particularly in our regions, will all boost jobs and growth. finally, with the lisbon treaty the eu has new responsibilities, and we should be prepared to put money into those new responsibilities. i would ask the commission to look at that in the future as well.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, a strong, well-funded cohesion policy is vital if the eu is to play its part in creating jobs and growth, particularly when member states are cutting their spending. structural funds are making a difference in places like wales and, if they are to continue to do so, we need to ensure that the cohesion policy is adequately funded, it is well-targeted, the money is properly spent and the system is made simpler. these two latter points are of course very important to the committee on budgetary control. we want to make life easier and simpler, not just for member states but for applicants as well. we need to ensure that there is a balance between ensuring that the money is properly spent and making funds easily accessible, particularly for smaller organisations. finally, i would make this point. when considering any move towards a greater focus on urban areas and cities, the creation of a potential new infrastructure fund, and the possible creation of a performance reserve, we need to ensure that all those things do not put at risk or damage the poorer regions in the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in my view these reports before the plenary today fail to address the fundamental problems with the current system of structural funding. in the wake of the financial crisis and the ongoing need to reduce budget deficits across europe, parliament must recognise that the cohesion budget cannot continue to grow, unchecked. it is not business as usual. our focus should instead be on tackling the unacceptable levels of error in spending highlighted by the european court of auditors. similarly, macro-regional entities are not the answer to increasing the effectiveness of regional spending. they are of highly questionable value and undermine the member states which, in my view, should remain the primary vehicle for managing cohesion spending. they will not help meet our vision of a smaller and better-targeted cohesion policy that truly helps europe’s most deprived regions. these reports go in completely the wrong direction, and i shall be voting against them.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, west wales and the valleys should again qualify for regional funding despite average eu gva falling, posing serious questions over whether cohesion policy even works. it is my understanding that a significant amount went into developing the public sector, though undermined by widespread domestic cuts across the uk. some gbp 12 million in corrections was levelled against programmes in wales from 2008 to 2009, while a total of 35% of funds for the same period was recouped in fines by the commission. this money is not being used effectively if it remains in brussels’ coffers. with proposals to increasingly narrow cohesion policy and focus upon results-based deliverance, i feel the level of corrections will increase. regional funding is not a gift from brussels, but meagre remuneration from the billions the uk pays in. public consultations on the fifth report on cohesion policy reveal an overall desire to pull away from the brussels-dictated policy. it will be revealing to see whether the commissioner listened to those concerns. this money is not a freebie from brussels. it is only a small percentage of the money taken from taxpayers’ pockets and then spent on exactly what the commission wants, with an added threat to publicise that this or that has been given to us by the eu or face a fine. it is cynical propaganda.
as we know, mr stavros lambrinidis has communicated to me his appointment as minister of foreign affairs in the greek government with effect from 17 june 2011. parliament hereby takes note of this communication and, pursuant to article 7(1) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, and rule 4(1) and (4), establishes the vacant seat with effect from 17 june 2011. we will continue with our work, wishing our former colleague very best wishes and good luck. the competent greek authorities have informed me of the election of mr dimitrios droutsas to replace mr lambrinidis. pursuant to rule 4(1), parliament takes note of this replacement with effect from 22 june 2011. i welcome this new member… (applause)… and point out that, pursuant to rule 3(2), until such time as his credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, and provided that he has previously signed the declaration that he does not hold any office incompatible with that of member of the european parliament, mr dimitrios droutsas shall take his seat in parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto. i am sure we wish good luck to our new colleague also. ***
madam president, on a point of order, i see over on the other side of the room that there are political posters displayed in the chamber. i believe this to be against the rules. it does not bother me personally, but what i have asked for many times in this chamber is that there is an even application of the rules to everybody. if the ladies and gentlemen over there are to display their political posters, then i wish to have the right to permanently display my ‘vote ukip’ poster on my desk and for anybody else to display their posters. can we have a ruling one way or the other please? (applause)
thank you very much, mr batten, for drawing my attention to the posters. i would ask those displaying them to now take them down.
madam president, whether we agree or disagree with demonstrators, it is absolutely wrong that demonstrators should be allowed inside parliament to stop meps getting in to vote. it is immaterial whether we agree or disagree with the cause; something has to be done to make sure that meps are allowed to get in to vote without hindrance. (applause)
the services were made aware of the problem and it should not happen again.
this has nothing to do with our work here.
written declaration no 14 of 2011 submitted by konstantinos poupakis, richard howitt, ádám kósa, eva lichtenberger and cecilia wikström on a voluntary system of labelling in braille format on the packaging of industrial products has been signed by more than the majority of parliament’s component members and, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, it will be forwarded to its addressees and published in texts adopted by the current sitting and the names of the signatories will be in the minutes.
the next item is the vote.
on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, on behalf of the committee, i would like to request the adjournment of the final vote, under rule 57(2). as you know, this was the view of the committee expressed on tuesday, and we think that we can now proceed to have further discussions with the council with a view to achieving a satisfactory outcome. i therefore ask for the adjournment in order that we can conclude this or leave the door open to concluding it, with a first-reading agreement in july.
mr schulz, i have given you the floor but i do not want to open what is clearly a political debate on the file that we have just voted on. (applause)this could take some time. we have an enormous number of votes to get through. the political debate will continue. (protests)i will give the floor briefly to mr daul and mr verhofstadt and then it is finished.
the commission has sent us the following statement on the amendments adopted by parliament. ‘the commission recalls its commitment towards ensuring that member states establish correlation tables linking the transposition measures they adopt with the eu directive and communicate them to the commission in the framework of transposing eu legislation, in the interest of citizens, better-law making and increasing legal transparency and to assist the examination of the conformity of national rules with eu provisions.‘ the commission regrets the lack of support for the provision included in the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer rights, amending council directive 93/13/eec and directive 1999/44/ec of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directive 85/577/eec and directive 97/7/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which aimed at rendering the establishment of correlation tables obligatory.‘ the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of that proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables included in the text with a relevant recital encouraging member states to follow this practice. ‘ however, the position followed by the commission in this file shall not be considered as a precedent. the commission will continue its efforts with a view to finding together with the european parliament and the council an appropriate solution to this horizontal institutional issue.’
if you had been listening you would have heard that it fell.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, ‘you can evade reality’, wrote ayn rand, ‘but you cannot evade the consequences of evading reality’. we have reached the limit of trying to move markets with public money. everyone can now see that a default in greece is coming, except the euro zone finance ministers who, 13 months after uselessly committing eur 110 billion, now seem set to commit a further sum almost as large. actually it is not uselessly. it is not just useless. it is actively harmful, because what we are ensuring is that when the default comes, it will be much bigger and the hit will be taken by all of us as taxpayers rather than by just a small number of bankers and bondholders. thus are the interests of greek workers and the interests of european taxpayers alike sacrificed to the ambitions of a small number of the gilded princelings of the eurocracy.
madam president, i want to salute my friends in the communist and green groups. they are right about one thing. if we adopted a tenth part of their policy we would be in serious trouble, but they have got one thing right – which is that these bail-outs are punishing the majority of people in order to reward some very wealthy individuals. if we want to rescue banks that are exposed in greece, particularly french and german banks, it would be much cheaper just to give them the money directly rather than routing it scenically through athens. but i have to stand back and question the premise. why, yet again, given the failure of the first round of bank bail-outs, are taxpayers being expected to come forward and rescue some very wealthy individuals from the consequences of their own error? we in our generation look back at ancien régime europe and we wonder how such a system could have existed. we say, how could it possibly have been constructed so that only the nobility had exemption from taxation? how could we have tolerated a system where only the little guys were paying taxes? but – you know what? – we are recreating exactly that system by shovelling around this public money in order to save some vested interests. so ‘hasta la victoria siempre’.
mr hannan, you are due to speak on the feio report, but you are also next and the only one on the list for the goulard report, so i give you two minutes to use as you wish on both.
madam president, you are exceptionally generous as well as being a very good chair. i would like to pick up on some of the clumsy vocabulary that we have heard in recent weeks in discussion of these financial rescue packages. the talk in our media is about rescuing greece, giving assistance to portugal, and helping ireland, but that is not how the peoples in the recipient countries see it. the reason that greeks are on the streets protesting is that they understand perfectly well what the consequence of this eu/imf takeover will be. the money is not going to ordinary greek people, it is going to those financial institutions which hold greek government debt. however the repayment will come from the ordinary taxpayer: in other words, ireland, portugal and greece are being sent the bill for propping up the entire european banking system. why? because we cannot bring ourselves to admit that monetary union was a mistake. we cannot bring ourselves to see the logic: that jamming together countries with widely divergent conditions and needs into a single currency was bound to cause precisely the strains that some of us were predicting 10 years ago when the project was launched. so we exacerbate the crisis by having yet more integration, and all of the things that we heard about in the debate yesterday on this report – ‘we need fiscal union’, ‘we need economic governance’. you can see the flaw in the logic there, my friends. european integration has failed, so let us have more of it! monetary union is not enough, we need more economic union. the reality is that this is about saving face: saving the faces of those eurocrats who launched the project in the first place and who are prepared to sacrifice the peoples of the peripheral countries and the taxpayers of the poor countries in order to sustain their conceit. surely theirs must be the most expensive faces since that of helen of troy which launched a thousand ships.
in writing. − on the pieper, sanchez-schmid, stavrakakis, vlasák and mikolášik reports: conservative meps have elected to reject these reports on the future direction of cohesion policy, with the exception of the vlasák report, where we have abstained. this is due to a number of fundamental reasons: it is our contention that, at a time of ongoing fiscal consolidation across member states, it is totally unacceptable that the eu’s large cohesion budget should remain untouched by these efforts. generally, these reports fail to meet conservative concerns regarding the eu’s management of cohesion policy in any meaningful way. they reject any moves to allow richer member states to fund their own regional development and prevent the emergence of a smaller, more efficient and more targeted cohesion policy towards europe’s poorest regions. instead, new vehicles of bureaucracy such as the macro-regional entities are proposed, and the nation-state is once again undermined by a determined shift towards regionalism. this age of austerity offers an opportunity for the eu to spend less on old and wasteful priorities. these reports go in entirely the wrong direction.
in writing. − on the sanchez-schmid, stavrakakis, vlasák and mikolášik reports: conservative meps have elected to reject these reports on the future direction of cohesion policy, with the exception of the vlasák report where we have abstained. this is due to a number of fundamental reasons: it is our contention that, at a time of ongoing fiscal consolidation across member states, it is totally unacceptable that the eu’s large cohesion budget should remain untouched by these efforts. generally, these reports fail to meet conservative concerns regarding the eu’s management of cohesion policy in any meaningful way. they reject any moves to allow richer member states to fund their own regional development and prevent the emergence of a smaller, more efficient and more targeted cohesion policy towards europe’s poorest regions. instead, new vehicles of bureaucracy such as the macro-regional entities are proposed, and the nation-state is once again undermined by a determined shift towards regionalism. this age of austerity offers an opportunity for the eu to spend less on old and wasteful priorities. these reports go in entirely the wrong direction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it was an improvement on the original commission text. i particularly welcome the provisions for upholding workers’ rights and the importance of a comprehensive assessment of economic performance, particularly including employment.
in writing. − labour euro mps are fundamentally opposed to the current, austerity-only, direction of the economic governance package. improved coordination on economic and fiscal policy, particularly within the eurozone, would be good for europe’s long-term economic growth but must be based on the right rules. the text negotiated by the right-wing majorities in parliament, council and the commission puts too much emphasis on short-term, severe cuts to deficits, not long-term growth. these rules would be imposed across the european union, removing the flexibility for national governments to respond with different policies in the future. long-term growth keeps debt falling as a proportion of gdp, and is essential to providing jobs and economic well-being and funding high-quality public services. to ensure this package supports economic growth, investment spending must be protected. investment in scientific research, vital infrastructure and the new green economy is crucial to long-term growth and should never be cut back to meet short-term eu targets. cutting such spending in times of recession would also worsen an economic downturn. labour euro mps support the improvements secured to the commission proposal on macroeconomic imbalances in the ferreira report which uphold workers’ rights and the importance of a comprehensive assessment of economic performance, including employment.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the european union by the centre-right. this package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the eu at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of europe. this financial reform package will hit the poorest in europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis – the financial sector – untouched. i welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed. long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and i cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across europe.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the european union by the centre-right. this package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the eu at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of europe. this financial reform package will hit the poorest in europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis – the financial sector – untouched. i welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed. long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and i cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across europe.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the european union by the centre-right. this package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the eu at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of europe. this financial reform package will hit the poorest in europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis – the financial sector – untouched. i welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed. long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and i cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across europe.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the european union by the centre-right. this package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the eu at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of europe. this financial reform package will hit the poorest in europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis – the financial sector – untouched. i welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed. long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and i cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across europe.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − the economic governance package approved by a right-wing majority in the european parliament will risk entrenching austerity in eu law. i voted against the overall package as i do not believe it is the right thing to do in the current financial climate. right-wing governments are trying to push through a number of economic policies that cut deficits in the short term but provide no hope for economic growth in countries in the long term. improved coordination on economic policy is without doubt a good idea for europe’s long-term growth. however, we need a progressive alternative to ensure growth in the economy – without growth in the economy it is impossible to provide jobs and fund public services. investment spending should be dealt with separately from regular annual government spending in the debt rules. it is also vital for governments to be able to undertake stimulus spending, as the labour government did in 2008/2009, to prevent this crisis from turning into a global depression.
in writing. − i abstained on the vote on the wortmann-kool and the feio reports which look to revise the stability and growth pact. i am glad that the reports are strong on the need to avoid debts and deficits, and they have certainly been drafted according to an economic philosophy that i support. however, i have doubts that tweaks to the stability and growth pact, which failed so miserably in assuring both stability and growth, are the right solution to europe’s economic woes. i also have grave concerns about reverse qualified majority voting in council decisions linked to these reports. we should not underestimate the precedent that this is setting, and the shift in power away from the council that this would entail.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote. i supported the accompanying ferreira report, but was unable to support this report as i strongly oppose the programme of crippling austerity measures which is being driven through the european union by the centre-right. this package of economic governance reforms will stifle growth in the eu at the very time we need investment for growth, for research and development and for jobs, to secure the economic future of europe. this financial reform package will hit the poorest in europe the hardest, while leaving the cause of the crisis – the financial sector – untouched. i welcome improved coordination of economic and fiscal policy in europe, but strongly oppose the short-term vision under which this is being imposed. long-term investment in the green economy, in scientific research and in infrastructure is absolutely crucial to economic stability, job creation and growth, and i cannot support this package of reforms which seeks crippling austerity across europe.
in writing. − the ecr has always worked constructively to ensure that the eurozone can formulate a lasting solution to its sovereign debt crisis. the defects of the stability and growth pact, in both its substance and its enforcement, have been obvious for some time; it is right that efforts are now underway to ensure a lasting settlement that works. we have contributed throughout the committee and trialogue process to ensure that the parliament’s preferred outcome is realistic, workable, and lasting. nevertheless, we regret that what has been proposed by the commission and endorsed by the parliament is not a solution merely for the eurozone, but one that includes those whose currency is not the euro. whichever way one looks at it, the package we have voted on is one which increases the powers of the eu at the expense of the member states. it includes concepts that are innovative, such as reversed qualified majority voting and the fining of member states, and ensures that national budgets are no longer a matter merely for national parliaments. so, while we endorse the long-term goals, we cannot endorse the means and have voted against those reports which do not confine themselves to the eurozone.
in writing. − i wish to congratulate the rapporteur and colleagues across the political groups for the excellent work that has been done in negotiating this package. when this house first received the commission’s proposal it was clear that consumer rights in numerous countries were being threatened, not enhanced. this compromise package has removed a number of these threats and will hopefully lead to a better consumer environment across the eu.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly supported this report to strengthen protection for consumers across wales. this new legislation will protect those consumers purchasing products on line – customers will now have a period of two weeks in which to change their mind about on-line purchases. this new legislation takes into account the ‘digital revolution’ and will help both consumers and traders alike. cross-border selling will become easier, helping both consumers and traders alike. the consumer rights directive also signals the end of high credit and debit card fees, which many people pay when purchasing on line – i am pleased to say that this report outlaws the practice of adding credit or debit card payment fees that bear no relation to costs incurred when processing an on-line transaction. i hope that the british government will implement these new rules without delay to ensure the protection of consumers across the uk.
in writing. − the horrors at fukushima have served to highlight the unavoidable dangers of the nuclear industry. my party has long campaigned against scotland being used as a nuclear dumping ground for other countries and one of the first acts of the snp scottish government was to withdraw scotland from the uk position of deep geological disposal. whilst today’s vote could have gone much further, i welcome colleagues’ decision to reject the dumping of nuclear waste in third countries.
in writing. − i have voted on the jordan cizelj report in a way in which i believe was the most responsible regarding europe’s future energy concerns. i am referring to the fact that roughly 15% of the eu’s current energy supply comes from nuclear energy. this is huge chunk of our energy demand, a demand which is projected to increase in the coming decades. it is therefore essential that this significant section of our energy supply should not be taken hostage to fear and panic in the wake of the fukushima incident. i fear that these concerns have been exacerbated for political ends by certain factions here and elsewhere in europe and i wish to make a clear stance regarding our future energy mix that is free from fear and panic and approaches the subject of nuclear energy based on science and evidence. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my friend and colleague ms edit herczog for all their efforts on this. the fact is that nuclear energy and nuclear research will be a part of future energy demand and that is why i have voted the way i did in order to ensure that the waste and spent fuel is dealt with in the appropriate way.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the budget committee because it wants to increase the eu budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments. i could not vote in favour of the conservative party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because i firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the budget committee because it wants to increase the eu budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments. i could not vote in favour of the conservative party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because i firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the budget committee because it wants to increase the eu budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments. i could not vote in favour of the conservative party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because i firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
in writing. − i voted against the balzani report on the mandate for the trilogue negotiations from the budget committee because it wants to increase the eu budget for 2012 by 3.7% for commitments and 4.9% for payments. i could not vote in favour of the conservative party amendment to freeze the budget at 2011 levels because i firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed, and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations.
in writing. − i voted against amendment 21 of the dess report which in the cap sought to remove the need to co-finance appropriations for modulation and capping as a means of flat-rate aid. this would facilitate the eu’s giving of british taxpayer’s money, with fewer obstacles to recipients across the eu. it would also result in these moneys not being returned to the british exchequer from the eu budget when they are unused. in a nutshell it would increase the burden on the british taxpayer by the eu. i also believe that it contributes to the argument of those who want to eliminate the british rebate since they will be able to claim that these moneys will also be given to british farmers.
in writing. − these two amendments (10 and 11) were supported to stop a cap or ceiling being introduced for direct payments. the effect of such a cap would be to create an administrative and bureaucratic nightmare as landowners sought to divide up large holdings to avoid the ceiling cutting their money: it represents the very worst sort of bureaucratic perverse incentive for questionable but probably legal behaviour.
in writing. − it is important that we have a strong and sustainable cap and the ongoing work on its reform is one of the key issues before this parliament. the agriculture sector must be innovative and competitive, and those working in my own country remain committed to playing their valuable role in the wider european sector.
in writing. − the ecr supported this report because it is a significant improvement on the commission communication and keeps the spirit of previous market-based reforms alive. it also focuses on the challenge of greening the cap through primarily rural development measures. however, the ecr does not support the capping of payments to large farms or proposals to extend market intervention to other sectors. we believe that these will institutionalise inefficiencies in the farming sector. we therefore supported all amendments opposing capping. in general, the deß report is more positive than the commission proposal. the commission proposal includes greening of payments in pillar 1, the reintroduction of set-aside, a focus on social policy and an increase in the role of article 68, which allows for the reintroduction of coupled payments in some sectors. these are all backward steps which will further complicate the cap and do nothing to help farmers respond to market forces. although the deß report includes weaker elements of some of these proposals, unlike the commission communication, it does not undermine the pro-market direction of travel of previous reforms. the ecr group therefore supported the final report, although we do not support all the provisions contained in it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, this proposal has had a lot of attention, partly because there has been lack of transparency and understanding of derivatives, making derivatives a target for demonisation. however, derivatives are widely used for risk management, including by corporate entities engaged in the real economy and by pension funds. of course it is also true that, like many financial products, they can be abused or made overly complex. the opinion of the committee on legal affairs was made early in the report’s consideration, and i appreciate the fact that the rapporteur reflected much of it in his report. on matters specific to our committee, we considered it key to dispel notions of retrospective legislation on outstanding contracts, which may well be illegal. however, the retrospective extension of reporting, where this is simple due to electronic records, i consider acceptable. we are also pleased to see the uptake of the suggestion of frand – fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory licensing practices. this can usefully be applied in a range of financial services to achieve openness and competition, while respecting legitimate property rights. we are also pleased to see inclusion of corporate exemptions for legitimate hedging and intra-group exemptions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the cornerstone of today’s package on financial products, emir, was the focus of global agreement, via the g20, regarding future legislation on derivative instruments. i would like to thank the rapporteur, dr langen, and his team for ensuring that the global dimension of this regulation has been considered. i believe that the langen report has demonstrated that the democratic process, both here in the parliament and other eu institutions, including the commission, is working. although aimed at modifying the use of derivatives through increased transparency of reporting, and, where applicable, reducing counter-party risk through central clearing, this has been an example where the most vocal and persuasive voices shaping this legislation have been those delivering growth and value in the european economy, namely businesses, large and small, from many member states. the report presented to plenary this week considers proportionate responses to different derivative products based on risk, considers the end-users of such products when used for hedging business purposes and takes into account the needs of millions of european savers and pensioners. we must now ensure that technical details, in particular on segregation, third countries and different types of collateral, are suitably addressed. where there are overlaps on to other legislative reports such as mifid, mad and crd, we must ensure that the principles established in this regulation are delivered throughout and that our european businesses are not at any stage disadvantaged. such treatment of non-financials must be ensured in subsequent legislation so as not to discourage genuine business hedging, which would have a significant impact on risk management in the real economy.
on behalf of the alde group. − mr president, i am now speaking about the aspects relating to economic and monetary affairs rather than legal affairs. there are two prongs to this legislation: first, clearing derivatives through central counter-parties. so there will not be the situation that prevailed after lehman went down, where it took a long time to sort out who owed who what, although it is worth pointing out that matters were, by and large, sorted out. the second aspect is reporting of all derivatives to a central registry. so, in future, there will be a much better understanding of the level and ownership of derivative contracts, and an alert will be given if it seems there is a build-up of systemic risks. the comparison with us legislation has and will be taken seriously in order to avoid regulatory arbitrage. equivalence, not sameness, is the key, as we are not the us and there are important differences between our legislative processes and theirs. for instance, the powers of rule-making devolved to esma cannot be as wide as for their us counterparts, and conduct of business aspects in the eu belong to mifid and mad. i support exemption of foreign exchange from clearing, since there are already settlement procedures through cls bank that cover the risk. i also support the exemption of pension funds from the clearing obligations. this should continue until the collateral problem has been solved. here we do have a difference from the us in that their ccps accept a wider range of collateral so that their pension funds are not caught in the expensive cycle of asset conversion that would apply under emir. we also hear a lot about horizontal versus vertical silos. what is important to my group is open access and the efficiency that competition provides. we need to ensure that there is not unfair profiteering, because the costs incurred in the financial system in general take their toll on the real economy and real people.
madam president, in the financial crash we saw how a shock in one corner of the global financial market, coupled with uncertainty, sent systemic waves across the world. the aim of this regulation is to reduce systemic risk caused by a financial institution’s failure by encouraging central clearing and improving transparency. it is not intended to lock non-financial companies out of derivative markets, which they use to reduce exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange, interest rates or raw material prices. having excluded these companies from this regulation, we must not price them out of these markets when we look at the capital requirements directive later. i would also be concerned if the compromise in this text on what are acceptable liquid assets were to be cut and pasted into the rules on bank liquidity. like many colleagues, i hear the concerns of our constituents. they see highly volatile markets for food and fuel, yet prices in the shops and the fuel stations seem only to move in one direction. but derivatives allow producers and suppliers to reduce the volatility and it would be wrong to blame such fluctuations solely on derivatives traders. we need to look at economic factors as well as market abuses across physical and financial markets when we look at mifid and mad later this year. the ambition of this regulation is to reduce systemic risk and it would be a mistake if the end legislation contributes to increasing monopoly powers in our markets.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, congratulations to mr stolojan and the services, including mr van es – he does not get mentioned very often but he is quite a solid part of our parliamentary services, he should be thanked. everyone – at least almost everybody – has worked tirelessly and very hard to get consensus on this law, and the legislation we will vote on will ensure appropriate supplementary supervision of financial groups. this is something that was missing from our discussion on solvency ii and which we knew was very important – as were, we remember, the effects of aig when they occurred. so it is gratifying that i have heard already from the commissioner of the transatlantic bearing of this issue. we all know very well what happens when corporations are involved in things which are too complex and too risky. to this end, financial business and other key business are accommodated in this particular report, whether they are banks or insurance or involved in securities. this legislation spreads out the approach to those risks. commissioner, may i just mention to you now that transatlantic issues are still alive, and we need to ensure that the financial conglomerates are a part of that discussion, particularly in the tec. i do not want to sound accusatory, but we are not seeing financial issues discussed in the tec and we are wondering which side of the atlantic is being resistant to seeing it discussed. please come back to me on that. on the directive itself, you are right: stress-testing, the role of authorities, correlation tables, are notable successes for parliament. we won them in a hard fight within the trialogues. we should feel justified, therefore, in our relative success in this legislation, which i believe will continue in the interest of better protection of consumers – something that we should come to expect.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, a key feature in the supervision of conglomerates is ensuring that there is avoidance of regulatory repetition, but it is also important to have a level playing field as viewed from the separate sectoral companies with which they compete. this underlines several of the amendments that have been made, and there is the specific point included that all risks are incorporated while eliminating supervisory and prudential overlaps. as mr skinner just mentioned, correlation tables are included. happily, all institutions finally agreed on them being necessary in this instance, because it gets complicated fitting it in to all the other legislation. but, more generally, i reinforce that correlation tables are vital as part of the european supervisory architecture. in the interinstitutional agreement i think we might also have to look at sector-by-sector as well as case-by-case exemptions from whatever is agreed. inclusion of uniform reporting formats, frequency and dates within two years of adoption of implementing technical standards has also been agreed and will make supervision easier. as has been mentioned, stress tests are included but not yet mandatory. as the rapporteur said, making them compulsory features in the review clause. i also confess that i am a little disappointed that the issue of scope is only in the review clause, in particular looking at the material relevance of the financial part of a large conglomerate rather than just having a threshold. in practice, some member states may have this under control, but i really do not see why we could not have been bolder at this point in time. as others have said, this is a good outcome, but the next review should be bolder, and we have made the point here of many of the issues that we will wish to see.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work that we have done, even though we may not agree on every element. one of the things that we do agree on is the need for better coordination between regulators and supervisors across borders so that they can act quickly. we all agree on the need for greater transparency. we can also agree that, where there is abusive behaviour in short selling, that should be banned. but that is banned under the market abuse directive, so we have to be clear about what we are trying to achieve with this directive. the question has been raised about uncovered sovereign cdss. when i talk to the participants in the market i ask them why they want to use uncovered sovereign cdss. some of the investment banks tell me that they need them if they provide credit lines to some small and second-tier banks. i have also heard from investors – and i have shared this with my colleagues, but they did not seem to want to listen – that, if you have investments in countries that you are concerned about and you cannot get protection on those investments, you use uncovered sovereign cdss as a proxy hedge for those investments, in such sectors as infrastructure, shopping malls and others. that is why they are used. the problem is that, if we ban this, what will we end up with? we will end up with more complicated and less transparent instruments, when we want transparency. we will also end up not actually recognising the real problem. the real problem with cdss and other derivatives is how they are treated on the balance sheets of banks and how banks use them to falsify their accounts, liquidity and capital. let us focus on the real problem here, rather than trying to ban everything without tackling the real problem. let us tackle the real problem of transparency, ifrs standards and the way these instruments are dealt with by banks.
the next item is the report by olle schmidt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 97/9/ec of the european parliament and of the council on investor-compensation schemes (com(2010)0371 – c7-0174/2010 – 2010/0199(cod)) (a7-0167/2011).
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, madoff is often cited as a reason for these sorts of measures, but actually, in the madoff affair, the sec in the us was warned a number of times. so arguably they had the tools at their disposal, they just chose not to use them. what i am worried about in this particular directive, though, is creating moral hazard and encouraging investors not to practise due diligence. they can invest willy-nilly knowing full well that they will be compensated for a bad decision, and that is what we have to be very careful about. i would like to thank the other groups for accepting my amendment on transparency. it is important that investors see the cost of regulation, but also understand how much they are being charged for compensation so that, when they buy an investment, they are not being hoodwinked into paying more than they need to. but what i am worried about is the high level of compensation. it is fine for places like london, frankfurt and paris, but many of the small member states are very worried about a harmonised level of eur 100 000 and worry about concentration of financial services and financial products in the big centres. i welcome the fact that london is such a centre, but i am worried about that from a competitive point of view. for that reason we will be abstaining but look forward to a healthy debate in the trialogues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
the next item is the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on establishing an agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (com(2010)0093 – c7-0046/2009 – 2009/0089(cod)) (a7-0241/2011). we had expected commissioner malmström to be with us, but i understand there is a problem with her incoming flight. she is on her way but she will not be here at the beginning. commissioner barnier will stand in so long as is necessary.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, mr coelho is as usual a safe pair of hands – i am not sure what we would do without him – and he has safely overseen the co-legislation of this regulation. the commission has attempted to develop several large-scale systems over the last few years but we know, certainly in the case of sis ii, that there have been serious delays and even some apparent mismanagement. in some of our member states it is not unknown to have these problems. so it is sensible to concentrate technical know-how in one place. but at the same time, as mr coelho said, it is important to ensure on sensitive issues, such as any proposal for system or data interoperability, that parliament is very much involved in any such decision. it is also important that this regulation provides for the european data protection supervisor to have the power to obtain from the agency access to all information necessary to his work. the commission will shortly propose setting up yet more it systems, for instance an entry/exit system for schengen borders and a registered traveller programme. i do not know whether the commissioner – i know he is standing in for a colleague – is able to tell us whether the commission is already planning that the agency should be involved in designing those two new databases. i am very pleased that the uk will be able to participate in the adoption of this regulation and in the management of the agency to a degree that reflects its participation in sis and in eurodac. this is perhaps a model for variable geometry in the schengen evaluation mechanism.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, yet another expensive, bureaucratic monster arises by combining vis, sis and eurodac, whether or not any member state currently participates in these agencies. it is meant to develop schengen, which itself is under pressure due to the libyan situation. what is the use of a system to allow free movement which has to be partially suspended because of the free movement it encourages? i understand there will be a central agency to retain fingerprints and biometric records for five years, including material obtained under sis – ‘information regarding certain categories of persons and property’. so, under the guise of facilitating the free movement of people, we have a resurrection of the stasi. of course, this is intended to lead to eu immigration control. in the case of the uk, many immigrants come from the commonwealth, a unique voluntary association including every single one of our former colonies. well, we have our own border controls for that purpose, and the eu does not have the right to interfere.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by cornelia ernst, helmut scholz and søren bo søndergaard, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left – nordic green left (o-000156/2011 – b7-0412/2011),– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by jan philipp albrecht, on behalf of the group of the greens/european free alliance (o-000159/2011 – b7-0413/2011),– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by birgit sippel, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-000160/2011 – b7-0414/2011),– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by timothy kirkhope, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists (o-000164/2011 – b7-0415/2011),– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by sophia in ’t veld, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000165/2011 – b7-0416/2011),– the oral question to the commission on state of play regarding the negotiations with australia, the us and canada on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by axel voss, simon busuttil and manfred weber, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats) (o-000170/2011 – b7-0417/2011).
author. − mr president, i want to particularly thank the commissioner for coming here this evening and of course sophia in ’t veld, our rapporteur, and all the other shadow rapporteurs who are still working hard on what has been a very long journey on these three pnr agreements. i had hoped that in this plenary session we would be voting through the agreements between the eu, canada, the us and australia. however, for reasons which you have already heard and explained yourself, commissioner, there are still outstanding issues. i believe that the swift adoption of these agreements is essential and that such agreements are an essential tool in the fight against terrorism. i think it is right that we use this time to ask the right questions and gather as much information as we can from the commission as to the compatibility of such agreements with european law, and on their practical implementation. these questions will no doubt be raised once again in my own report on the eu pnr agreement. but, for me personally, the necessity and the proportionality of these agreements have been long apparent from the number of crimes they have helped prevent, and the number of criminals that they have contributed to catching. these are serious crimes and serious criminals: murderers, rapists, drug-traffickers, child-traffickers and terrorists. the questions which we are asking here this evening are incredibly important. answers to them would make the process of decision-making for this house a lot easier and a lot more informed. there will always be ideological differences within this house, for example as to how long data should be stored, and there are even those who would argue it should not be collected at all. but i believe we have reached a workable and reasonable conclusion on these questions which should satisfy all, with good safeguards and checks and rights for eu citizens. we are at a crucial juncture, at which every negotiation and every process finds itself. a time when we have to move forward and do our jobs; when we have to look at what we have on the table and then make some positive decisions, and i hope that is the way that we will now go forward.
mr president, as one minute is not long, could i just check whether the commissioner answered the question about the scope of the us agreement. i am not sure if we heard your answer to that. you have said what the status of the various negotiations is. for the socialist and democrat group there are currently too many differences between the pnr negotiations. it is important that, regardless of what third state we are negotiating with, we build on common principles. secondly, we cannot have vastly different standards of protection for european citizens depending on which third state they are flying to. by doing this we risk creating an incentive for member states to begin to develop bilateral agreements which will then undermine our work at eu level. we should ensure full respect for the charter. the scope – as everyone has said – should not be unnecessarily wide. data retention periods should respect the tests of proportionality and necessity and we should have proper redress. all of these principles are still up for grabs in some of the negotiations. if the eu institutions’ own legal services are providing opinions against the current status of negotiations, then we should listen and ensure the agreements we put in place respect the fundamental rights of eu citizens.
mr president, my constituency, northern ireland, has seen many changes in recent years. it is a more stable and peaceful place to live in as it emerges from a terrorist campaign that has seen many lives lost, and many families bereaved. however, deep-rooted problems remain. we have recently experienced the dangers of republican terrorism, which resulted in the death of two young soldiers shortly before they were to be deployed to afghanistan. the callous murder of two police officers and recent rioting just last week in belfast show how community tension can still erupt into violence. the number of ‘peace walls’ separating communities has never been higher. often these walls separate communities suffering from high and generational unemployment, low educational attainment and poor health, including problems with mental health and growing rates of suicide. during a recent visit to northern ireland, commissioner hahn was able to see at first hand the huge contribution that the european peace fund is making to people across northern ireland. he spoke of his ongoing support for that fund and i hope that together, in this parliament, we will be able to make that fund continue.
mr president, as the chairman of the committee and also as the shadow for mrs rapti, i want to thank her in particular for producing an extremely well-balanced and important report. it is well timed to contribute to the review that the commission is undertaking. i welcome mrs malmström here, looking after mrs kroes’ interests, because i know that in sweden in particular they are very much engaged, as in many countries, in rolling out broadband. i think that mrs rapti is right in her approach to this, in saying that the current universal service provision is entirely outdated. i should know because i worked on it way back in 1999. that was at the time when mobile phones were in their infancy. we are now in a position where european citizens on average have more than one mobile phone each. so ideas about universal service are being fundamentally changed and recalibrated, but clearly broadband is now moving in as being an entitlement. we have lots of programmes in this area. governments have already committed to roll out those programmes and are now doing so. we need to make sure that those are effected, but we also need to ensure that the basic principles of universal service are complied with, particularly for people who are disadvantaged and disabled, to enable them to access those services. that is an area where the existing legal conditions need to be properly enforced.
mr president, it gives me great pleasure to speak again this evening both as committee chairman and as the shadow rapporteur for this really important report. i want to congratulate anna maria corazza bildt on the very ambitious and very courageous way in which she tackled this report. she had a clear vision of what she wanted to achieve and she has carried it through, and she has cooperated effectively with everyone involved. that is crucial, and she does not exaggerate the importance of what the committee has achieved. as she said, we have had visits and representations from people in the retail sector whom we had never seen before and who had never engaged with the european parliament before. and yet, as she emphasises, retailers of all sizes are absolutely at the cutting edge both of the internal market and in delivering for consumers. that is the first point in many cases where consumer protection has to operate. so this is indeed a landmark report, but it is also one that demonstrates the value of the political initiative. we took up an embryo initiative from the commission, a working document. the commission had not decided to proceed to any sort of green paper. i now hope that they will take it more seriously. i think they will, as i hope mrs malmström will confirm later. in conclusion, it is a great shame that in this chamber we now do not have the chance to have a proper debate on really important reports, such as the one we have just heard about from mrs rapti and this report from mrs corazza bildt. the procedures of this house need to be changed to allow us to engage with successful rapporteurs and to have really full debates on these issues, instead of these very truncated sessions that we are now forced to live with.
mr president, it is right that this european parliament asserts itself – specifically protecting in this resolution both health and housing – so that the european court does not sneak european competition policy into the provision of public services on our continent. i welcome the recognition in the resolution that the social rights of users and of staff override those of competition, and also our call to protect public services in our countries against disproportionate cuts at this time of economic austerity. local government in particular will welcome our statement that the most appropriate form of delivery for social services is public and voluntary sector provision, including in-house. they will welcome the fact that tendering is only one form of selecting a provider and that, if tendering is used, there should be no automatic bias towards the lowest cost above everything else. mutuals and cooperatives will welcome our recognition for the social economy. the public service ethic is brought into european decision-making through this resolution. i join with others in congratulating our rapporteur and i hope the commission will respect the principles of our vote when we take that vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr orbán, you are one of the few european leaders who has a grasp of history, believes in the nation state and champions democracy. i would say hungary is lucky to have you. you have shown you are not prepared to be bullied by these eu nationalists. when you say that previously hungary was dictated to by moscow, and now it is brussels, and you say that you are going to stand up to it, you actually mean it. so i think you have proved to be the secret weapon of the eurosceptic movement. your six-month tenure in this presidency has indeed been historic, because in the last six months the peoples of europe have finally woken up to what a completely undemocratic and failing project this is. there have been some real highlights in your six months. in particular, one thinks back to the finnish general election and the stunning success of the true finns party. who can blame ordinary taxpaying voters, in finland or elsewhere, for saying that they do not want to go on bailing out this failed project called the euro? well, hard on the heels of the finnish result we had the third catastrophe, the third casualty; mr barroso’s own portugal needed to be bailed out. then of course we were back to greece for the second bail-out, with people out rioting on the streets. but perhaps to cap it all, the real highlight of your presidency was that the danes tore up the schengen agreement. so, all in all, i would say that you have had a remarkable, superb six months in office. more has happened to reawaken democracy and the future of the nation state perhaps than ever before. i think there is a growing realisation, both here and elsewhere, that the worm has turned, and we have seen the beginning of the end of this extremely dangerous project. mr orbán, jolly well done!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − mr president, it is my pleasure to speak on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development which also considered this. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and ms lepage too for her good work in trying to bring both the reports together into an agreed position. the commission proposal, of course, is not about whether you are pro-gm or anti-gm. the legislation will give member states, for the very first time, a proper legal base to ban cultivation of gm crops. it will give them the power to do so. from the commission’s point of view it will hopefully free up the stalemate in the current authorisation process, and bring to an end member states’ illegal use of safeguard clauses to introduce bans on gm cultivations, which the european court of justice has found against on a number of occasions. the agriculture committee’s approach to this was to rather reluctantly support the commission’s proposal but with a number of safeguards. we wanted to reinforce the view that the principle of proportionality should be taken into account when member states think about introducing a ban on gm cultivation. we also believed and insisted that the freedom of choice of consumers and farmers should also be taken into account by member states when considering a ban, and at no time was any legal advice given to us that this would be at odds with the legal basis we were working on. we also insisted that farmers and growers must be given proper notice of a ban to give them time to adapt, if any member state decided to introduce a ban either in one of its regions or across the whole of its territory. we also insisted that member states introduce as an absolute requirement co-existence measures to protect non-gm growers. before going further and using the new powers that we are seeking to introduce to put a blanket ban, or a regional ban, in place, the first step should always be that member states should use co-existence measures as a first step in trying to protect non-gm growers. finally, we agreed that member states could use wider environmental grounds to introduce a ban provided – and this is very important – that they did not undermine the current eu-wide authorisation process. the environmental grounds that they use for introducing a ban must be distinct. otherwise we threaten to undermine the eu authorisation process which i think is very important. i hope we can make progress on this issue. i notice the divisions in the council so i suspect it will not be easy, but i hope that the commission, parliament and the council can make this small adjustment and this giving back of a small amount of power to member states as a way to break the current logjam, and i hope we can make progress on that.
mr president, my voters and my party are overwhelmingly sceptical about gm crops. like the majority of voters in every country of europe, we reject technology imposed for the profit of giant multinationals without safeguards or consent. we reject technology that will replace sustainable local family farming with short-sighted international agri-business. where we part company with the commission is over the way in which the europhiles, as always, are seeking to exploit such genuine concerns and real problems by pushing for federal european solutions. this report, giving back a little power to nation-states, is a welcome exception. but, in the long term, if the people of britain want to secure the freedom to reject frankenstein foods, they will not get it by bowing to the european project. they will only get it when they reject the rule of the corrupt westminster political elite and their big business puppet masters, because it is that out-of-touch greedy elite which is forcing upon us both frankenstein foods and the frankenstein monster that is the european union. our voters demand the freedom to reject both in free and fair referendums. the westminster elite is not only allowing reckless multinationals to genetically modify our food, their mass immigration policy is also genetically modifying the entire british population, just as your utopian multiculturalism is destroying traditional identities all over europe. this is why, both in westminster and strasbourg, we the people have to get rid of the elites before the elites get rid of us.
mr president, i would like to thank corinne lepage, whose persistence and determination on this has been truly formidable. i thank her for her inclusiveness. this report has been significantly changed from the commission report. i am very happy to support member states’ discretion on most grounds, but not on scientific grounds. it is our duty as co-legislators to open up debate and make decisions based on evidence. in the european parliament we have established a worldwide reputation for sound scientific decisions. sometimes these processes are long-winded, sometimes frustrating, but we make them work. they form the basis of reach, plant protection and many other regulations. efsa is not perfect, but let us put our efforts into continuous improvement, not into undermining their authority. if you vote for this proposal, be careful what you wish for. it could be a pandora’s box. it does not free up any logjam, it just glues it up further, and we will end up in continual wrangling on this issue.
mr president, i understood that it was a decision of the conference of presidents that any report that had more than 50 amendments had to be referred back to the committee to be resolved. we have four reports in front of us today – the langen, lepage, eickhout and pieper reports – all of which have more than 50 amendments. i ask you, therefore, to enforce the standing order and refer these reports back to committee, so that they do not take up our time when they should be sorted out in committee. (applause)
mr president, this is a blatant attempt to interfere with a national parliament and should not be voted on by the european parliament. (applause)
mr president, it is one of my longstanding contentions that shakespeare has something to say about every subject, including our voting list today, starting with our approval of a grant to a steel plant in denmark. ‘come hither, my good hamlet, sit by me’, says the queen; act iii, scene ii. ‘no, good mother, here’s metal more attractive’, replies the prince. and here was metal more attractive before we decided to subsidise it; but of course the least attractive metal of all is what is happening to the european currency. because the result of these repeated interventions, these subsidies, these market distortions is that we are bringing about the same conclusion that we had in the 1970s, when we last pursued these policies. by all means go for the takeover of industry, for the subventions, for the picking of winners, but you will end, as our fathers did, with inflation, with sclerosis, with debt and ultimately in bankruptcy.
mr president, permanence is the illusion of every age. one of the things that is most striking when you talk to people in the city of london is their belief that somehow there is an entitlement to the pre-eminence that they enjoy, that it is automatic. i am sure that their equivalents in medieval bruges, venice or amsterdam felt the same thing. i can imagine those people as portrayed by the old masters with their luxurious furs and their rich, embroidered cloths and their golden chains saying ‘no, london does not have the infrastructure to take over from us, we are a natural hub, we are obviously going to be the banking centre of the world’. but bit by bit, as a result of these eu regulations, we are losing our pre-eminence. this particular report is only one small chip into the architecture. i think that credit default swaps are an important hedge for some investors, they help optimise capital. but this report on its own is not going to bring the end of the square mile. the trouble is that it is part of a barrage of eu legislation covering almost every aspect of financial regulation, the net result of which will be an epochal shift in wealth from europe to asia, to the detriment of london specifically but more widely to that of the whole european union.
mr president, one of the things that was quite disappointing about the whole debate on short selling was the use of the word ‘morality’. my political opponents were saying that surely it was immoral to sell something that you do not own or that you do not yet own. on the surface that might strike one to be a compelling argument, but then you have to look at commerce and the way it acts. farmers and the agricultural sector short sell. they sell the products that they have not yet produced, often seasons ahead. online companies often do not hold things like books and other products in stock. they sell those products before they have actually got access to them. what is immoral about that short selling as long as there is a reasonable expectation that they can provide that product or service? at the same time, governments often short sell when it comes to their bonds, yet my opponents wanted to ban that. fortunately we did not ban it. what we are trying to ban is uncovered sovereign cdss where these are used as a proxy hedge on investments in countries that are in trouble. surely, if we want to create jobs, we should not be banning these things.
mr president, one of my major concerns about a number of these different compensation schemes is that it almost appears as if we want to regulate away risk. investors should be practising due diligence so they understand what they are investing in. what worries me about overly prescriptive compensation schemes is that investors will not do their due diligence and will just invest willy-nilly without worrying about the consequences, because they know they will be compensated. we have to make sure that investors are informed about the risks that they take. you just cannot eliminate risk altogether, you cannot regulate it away. investors also have different profiles. some want no risk: let them be aware of the less risky investments. but those who want to, say, have an adventurous growth model and are prepared to invest money that they may lose should also be allowed to do so. if we try and regulate away risk altogether we will end up affecting the whole investment sector in the eu.
mr president, this is precisely the kind of sensitive issue that ought to be dealt with through the national democratic mechanisms and procedures of each state. i quite understand why it is an issue on which tempers run high; a number of my constituents feel that there is something intrinsically eerie about, let us say, a tomato that contains anti-freezing genes taken from arctic fish. personally i do not share those concerns; we have been practising genetic manipulation since neolithic times. we have created for our convenience breeds which would not survive a day in the wild without human stewardship. if some cataclysm were to eradicate our species it would be the weeds that we have spent thousands of years fighting that would take over and the crops that we have spent thousands of years protecting that would be wiped out. for example, we have created cattle that lactate in such quantities that they could not exist without human care; the ancestor of the modern chicken laid something like five eggs a year. but the point is that, wherever i stand on this, it should be up to individual consumers to make the choice themselves or, if we must have regulation, it should be national regulation, answerable through parliaments to people. you would have thought that with what is going on in europe at the moment we would have had other things to worry about.
mr president, as someone who believes in the sovereignty of the nation state, i voted against this motion for a resolution on the revised hungarian constitution. yet again we see the interference of this house in the internal affairs of a member state, seeking to force its opinion on the hungarian people. let us not forget that the democratically-elected parliament of hungary adopted this new constitution by more than two-thirds this year. the representatives of the people of hungary support the constitution, so what right have we to reject it? sadly, what appears to have motivated such angst in this place is that the hungarian constitution is clear in matters about marriage and the family. i for one respect the position of hungary and reject the attempts of this house to interfere in its internal affairs.
mr president, once again here we have the european union trying to interfere on matters concerning a national state. it should be the people and a country’s elected government who decide matters of national importance, together with conscience. for a period of 45 years the hungarian people were under communism and the supreme soviet and they decided the daily lives of the people of hungary and yet here we have the european union doing the same. let the people be free; let the people decide. the european union has no right to decide on member state issues.
mr president, the problem with this report can be very simply stated. it is declamatory. i am not a climatologist. i am not qualified to pronounce definitively on sunspots or sea levels or the medieval warm period. like almost everyone else in this chamber i am dealing with secondary reports and i am doing my best to weigh up the opinions of people who have done the research themselves. but i am an elected legislator and i think it would be negligent not to have a view on what constitutes a proportionate response to an identified problem. it is here that this proposal fails the test. the proof of that can be found in the claims that its supporters are making. they do not argue that this reduction, adopted unilaterally in europe, would have more than a negligible impact on global warming on their own predictions. they say that they have to send a message. they have to show us that they are united. they have to encourage others by their actions. in other words they are using legislation not to achieve an identified outcome but to show what nice chaps we are and to feel good about themselves. if you want to do that, buy the awareness ribbon. wear the armband or put solar panels on your roof. do not expect your constituents to pick up the bill for you.
mr president, i am not convinced that the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is achievable. i would therefore question the wisdom of increasing the budget to 30% and placing substantial extra costs on the industry at a time of economic hardship. issues of climate change and global warming are of great importance not just to europe, but to the whole planet and for future generations to come. more than anything we need to increase our understanding of the phenomenon that we are facing. in this respect we still have a long way to go. i think that bandwagon jumping, and therefore attention-seeking, by politicians eager to please the global warming alarmists, will be no more helpful than dubious pronouncements by the deniers, who may or may not be emissaries of oil-company money. i have therefore not voted on this report, nor do i feel able to report on it, or support it. i think that we need to know more before we commit ourselves to the cost of tampering with the arbitrary targets we therefore cannot meet, in order to grab headlines.
mr president, a few years ago i ran a workshop in the côte d’ivoire which was attended by young centre-right african politicians. one of the things that we talked about during this workshop was the whole issue of aid. one of the issues that they were most united in opposing was this idea of direct budgetary support. many of the young activists there said to me that the problem with direct budgetary support was that it actually kept corrupt governments in power. what they wanted was more accountable aid. and so we had an interesting discussion about aid. they said that they would in fact rather have less aid so they could help themselves. i explained that the eu and the british government were insisting on giving more aid and we had a debate about what it should be spent on. they asked for help so that farmers could meet eu sanitary standards, investment in infrastructure, investment in land and property registers, lending capital to entrepreneurs, and mortgage finance so that people could leverage the equity in their home and create a property-owning democracy. the debate should be focused on helping people to help themselves, rather than helping corrupt governments stay in power.
in writing. − i voted for this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the functioning and application of established rights of people travelling by air.
in writing. − i voted for this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on eu-chile relations.
in writing. − i voted for this application. case egf/2010/025 dk/odense steel shipyard from denmark was submitted to the commission on 6 october 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 8 march 2011. it was based on the intervention criterion of article 2(a) of the egf regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies over a four-month period in an enterprise in a member state, including workers made redundant in its suppliers and downstream producers, and was submitted within the deadline of 10 weeks.
in writing. − i voted for this report to aid slovenia, the czech republic and croatia following floods this year. the direct damages have been estimated by the slovenian, czech and croatian authorities at a total of eur 19 546 647. the total amount for aid proposed in draft amending budget 2/2011 is eur 19 546 647.
in writing. − i voted for this application to mobilise the european globalisation fund in the light of 1 356 redundancies at odense steel shipyard in southern denmark. the commission proposes to mobilise a total amount of eur 14 181 901.
in writing. − sis ii claims to help ensure a high level of security within the area of freedom, security and justice of the eu, including maintaining public security and public policy. parliament states that the vis enables consulates to exchange visa information in order to facilitate the application procedure, helping to prevent ‘visa shopping’ and fraud, and facilitating checks at external borders to identify third-country nationals. however these controls should be strictly sovereign. i do not believe in the efficacy of the project, it is both expensive and will encompass is ii, vis and eurodac, meaning eventually all it systems in the area of security and justice will merge, raising questions about increased vulnerability to computer hacking and the acquisition and storage of data. i believe this vote represents a step in that direction and thus should be blocked.
in writing. − the issues in this report are complex, given that certain member states, including the united kingdom, participate only in certain parts of the schengen aquis. the uk position is further complicated by the fact that security and justice issues operate within independent legal systems governed by separate parliaments and governments. the scottish government takes an active role in the implementation of the schengen aquis in scots law and i was able to support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal as the least worst option. in june 2009 the commission presented a package proposal to establish an agency responsible for the operational management of large-scale information technology systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, consisting of a proposal for a regulation establishing the agency and a proposal for a council decision conferring upon the agency established by this regulation tasks regarding the operational management of the second schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and the european dactylscopy (eurodac) in application of title vi of the eu treaty, under the former third pillar. the lisbon treaty did away with the pillar structure and now virtually all legislation coming within the area of freedom, security and justice has to be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission therefore presented the above amended proposal for a regulation which takes into account the changes resulting from the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and contains the provisions initially proposed as a council decision.
in writing. − this report primarily deals with issues of concern to the french overseas departments. i think that the wider general point can be made that the eu has a duty to take decisions designed to ensure the economic well-being of all of europe’s outlying areas.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (formerly article 229(2) of the ec treaty) authorises the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting parliament, to adopt specific measures for the benefit of the union’s outermost regions, taking account of their social and economic situation. the fact that these regions are permanently disadvantaged by their insularity, remoteness from major markets, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products severely hinders their development and fully justifies the implementation of specially tailored measures. such is the basis for the so-called ‘dock dues’ system, under which france is authorised, until 1 july 2014, to apply differential rates of the tax known as ‘dock dues’ to certain products manufactured in its four overseas departments (ods). given the importance of dock dues to the outermost regions i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − given increased mobility throughout the eu for business, work and leisure, it is clear that the 112 emergency number can be an important tool for allowing citizens to contact the emergency services anywhere with minimum fuss. it is equally clear that, for the tool to be effective, citizens must be aware of its existence. however, as the report rightly notes, individual member states have existing, long-standing emergency numbers, and it is important that the two systems must be allowed to operate in parallel.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which intends to assess recent developments related to the basic concept of universal service as enshrined in the universal service directive and in the context of new developments, including universal access to broadband, coordination of approaches and its financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable people and disabled consumers. the report also focuses on the single european emergency number 112, introduced to enable citizens to call the emergency services by using one and the same number from anywhere in the eu.
in writing. − the retail sector is a vital economic driver and this report highlights a number of important issues. the retail sector also plays an important role in other areas of the economy such as the food and drinks industry. the scottish government has implemented a retailers’ charter in conjunction with major retailers, and this is a good example of government working with those in the retail sector.
in writing. − i voted for this report which is about creating jobs by removing borders, barriers and burdens to trade in europe.
in writing. − eu member states’ contributions to this year’s budget will be cut by a total of eur 4.54 billion. this decision was made possible because of a surplus from the 2010 financial year. money not spent on eu programmes in 2010 amounts to a total of eur 2.72 billion. the rest comes from fines, interest on late payments and surpluses due to exchange rate differences. it clearly reflects that we are paying too much into the budget, and so we welcome the fact that britain will benefit to the tune of eur 639 million.
in writing. − i voted for this report which deals with the 2010 budget surplus. i welcome the fact that this will result in eur 639 million being returned to the uk.
in writing. − although i believe that consumers’ rights should be protected, i do not share the idea of the necessity of eu-wide legislation protecting online shoppers which will also specify rules on delivery and digital downloads. this is another attempt to create new eu legislation where domestic legislation is extant and sufficient; new legislation will create an unnecessary burden on small and medium-sized businesses. member states’ consumer protection rules must be the prerogative of the member state.
in writing. − the regulation aims to abolish the barriers to cross-border cooperation between public enforcement authorities to detect, investigate and bring about the cessation or prohibition of intra-eu infringements of the laws which protect consumers’ interests. the regulation is intended to efficiently and effectively tackle cross-border rogue traders which disrupt the smooth functioning of the internal market, and thus increase consumer confidence in taking up cross-border offers, and prevent sellers and suppliers from evading enforcement to the competitive detriment of law-abiding sellers and suppliers. the regulation achieves its aims by establishing an eu-wide network of public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer laws in the member states (the ‘cpc network’), which started operating in december 2006. the cpc regulation partially harmonises the authorities’ investigative and enforcement powers and lays down the mechanisms for exchanging relevant information and/or taking enforcement action to stop infringements in cross-border situations.
in writing. − the clearing and reporting of otc derivatives is an important step in implementing the g20’s recommendation to strengthen the stability of the financial system, and i was therefore happy to support this report
in writing. − the unregulated over-the-counter (otc) derivatives market has been a major source of instability in the financial system. labour euro mps backed the report today to ensure that the european union follows up on its g20 commitments to regulate this sector, valued at eur 425 trillion, and ensure it can no longer threaten the health of the global economy. regulating otc derivatives will also help address food and commodity price speculation, which has distorted prices and driven millions into hunger and poverty in recent years. by making the market more transparent it will limit the opportunities for market manipulation and the kind of food price spikes seen in 2007/2008. the council should follow parliament’s lead and allow us to conclude this law and proceed with further necessary proposals, including mifid and the market abuse directive, which will complete the re-regulation of this sector and comprehensively tackle the practice of gambling with the food on people’s plates.
in writing. − i support this proposal, as it is in line with the g20 agreement.
in writing. − the ecr group have supported this regulation on the basis that increased transparency through reporting and increased use of central clearing of derivative products globally will help reduce systemic risk in the global financial markets. the package voted upon is in line with g20 commitments and ensures that comparable regulatory measures are being proposed to other major financial jurisdictions. the regulation delivers proportionate responses to different products based on risk (e.g. foreign exchange), considers the needs of end users of such products when used for hedging business activities and takes into account the special circumstances of pension funds. we must now ensure that technical details on account segregation, third country recognition and the scope of application are negotiated. currently, there are products traded on organised trading venues that do not centrally clear – while using public trading venues increases transparency, they do not deal with the problem of counterparty credit risk. i hope that, during the trialogue process, we can ensure that this regulatory gap is filled and that all derivative products will be subject to the same clearing obligation wherever they are traded.
in writing. − the commission intends to improve the supplementary supervision of financial entities in a financial conglomerate in two steps. in the first step the commission adopted a proposal for a directive amending the directives linked to supplementary supervision, in particular directives 98/78/ec, 2002/87/ec and 2006/48/ec. this proposal deals with the single most urgent technical issue based on a limited review of the existing directives and it is the subject of this report. in the second step the commission intends to start a more fundamental review, in the context of developments regarding supplementary supervision. that review is expected to take place at the end of 2011. the purpose of the commission’s proposal is to provide a so called ‘quick fix’ for a situation that manifested itself in a more problematic way during the financial crisis, but which has been known for almost a decade. it is useful for supervisors to be able to supervise mixed financial holding companies in a similar way as financial holding companies (banking sector) and insurance holding companies (insurance sector). although the present directives do not seem to prohibit member states from adapting their legislation to exert this power over these mixed financial holding companies, a european coordination is useful in order to make this mandatory.
in writing. − i support this legislation, as it improves transparency and ensures the appropriate supplementary supervision of financial groups.
in writing. − i voted for this report, the key elements of which are the ban on naked short selling and uncovered sovereign cds. such practices are key examples of the casino-like trading culture that is still being practised despite the financial crisis. we must take a strong stance against these types of financial speculation, which bring no benefits to the real economy but, on the contrary, present serious risks.
in writing. − labour meps back the prohibition on naked short selling and naked credit default swaps (cds). while cds can have a useful insurance role, there is no benefit to society in allowing people to insure something they do not own, while there are risks to such practices. that is why it is illegal to take out an insurance policy on your neighbour’s life. these practices are part of the culture in the financial system which led to the financial crisis and this legislation will help address this. the us, japan, hong kong, australia and brazil have already prohibited naked short selling, and so adopting this law would also follow global best practice. hong kong has always banned naked short selling, and during the financial crisis their markets performed better and were more stable. today’s vote showed parliament’s strong backing for this report and it is now for council to respond and enable europe to strengthen its financial regulation and prevent future crises.
in writing. − i support the ban on naked short selling and uncovered sovereign credit default swaps because this type of speculation creates serious risks for the real economy.
in writing. − ukip is not against protecting investors but it is against its imposition by brussels as part of ever more regulation.
in writing. − ukip is not against protecting investors but it is against the imposition by brussels of protection measures as part of ever more regulations.
in writing. − the new eu legislation should increase the harmonisation and integration of the single european market, strengthen the consumer’s protection, create more confidence for consumers and depositors and enhance financial stability. the rapporteur has three main objectives: to increase consumer protection through higher coverage; to improve the single european market for financial services and create european harmonisation of investor compensation schemes in the union; and to improve the single european market for financial services and create european harmonisation of investor compensation schemes in the union.
in writing. − i support this legislation, because i think that it is of vital importance to ensure that private investors are better protected against fraudulent and defaulting investment firms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i feel that ordinary investors need to know that they are protected when making decisions on where to invest for their future. meps voted for compensation against fraudulent and defaulting investment firms, and added ‘bad advice’ as grounds for claiming compensation. the rules would also enable local authorities and ngos, as well as private individuals, to file compensation claims. more protection for investors should be welcomed, but calls to increase the level of protection from eur 50 000 to eur 100 000 were unfortunately defeated, as once again we see the right-wing voting to protect their chums in the city, and not investors in wales.
in writing. − while i agree with the principles of the report and the need for member states to maintain control in relation to approval of the cultivation of gmos, it is important that we do not create a dysfunctional single market for produce within the eu. the draft report does not deal with the dysfunctional legislative process for gm cultivation or the authorisation process for new technologies. a science-led approach is needed but it is important that both farmers’ and consumers’ concerns are addressed. research and innovation in agriculture is important for the survival of the industry, the eu must not be left behind. those who would like to remain gmo-free must also be respected; gmo contamination is a worry which must be addressed. agriculture must evolve, be more sustainable and find more efficient ways to use expensive inputs; this will involve embracing new technology. in moving to embrace new technology we must be confident the market is willing to purchase it.
in writing. − the amended report strengthens the abilities of europe’s nations to prohibit the growing of gmos. the scottish government is wholly opposed to gmo development in scotland and today’s legal clarification is to be strongly welcomed. meps have voted to allow member states, as well as distinct territories like scotland, to decide whether to prohibit gmo cultivation, including for environmental reasons, such as to protect biodiversity.
in writing. − i welcome this report. eu member states should have the flexibility to ban or restrict the cultivation of genetically modified crops and should be able to cite environmental motives for doing so.
in writing. − i support this legislation. until we are fully aware of the scientific benefits and disadvantages of gmos, they should be approved for cultivation by the member states.
in writing. − the hungarian constitution is an internal matter for hungary and thus parliament has no right to dictate what is and is not in the constitution. hungarians should have a right to decide about tax laws, pension systems, family policy and other issues covered by their constitution. in the uk we refuse anybody trying to tell us whether a british bill of rights is acceptable or not. this is domestic law in great britain and law which the european union must not control. we therefore equally do not want to take part in any actions aimed at damaging the image or the sovereignty of hungary
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls on the hungarian authorities to address the issues and concerns raised by the venice commission and to implement its recommendations, either by amending the new constitution or through future cardinal and ordinary laws.
in writing. − the outcome of today’s vote is disappointing. i regret that the conservative amendment removed our call for the eu to increase its co2 reduction target to 30% by 2020, leaving me no choice but to vote against the report. europe should be ambitious in its emissions targets, just as my own country, scotland, is ambitious – but parliament has chosen to back-pedal. the fukushima disaster shows that nuclear power will always be dangerous – yet parliament has backed nuclear power. today’s vote lacks ambition and is out of touch with the citizens of the eu.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because amendments meant that it did not clearly call for a move from 20% greenhouse gas emission reductions to 30%.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the increase from a 20% reduction to a 30% reduction in emissions, as it is important for europe to lead the way and be more environmentally responsible.
in writing. − on the pieper, sanchez-schmid, stavrakakis, vlasak and mikolasik reports: the conservative meps have elected to reject these reports on the future direction of cohesion policy, with the exception of the vlasak report where we have abstained. this is due to a number of fundamental reasons: it is our contention that at a time of ongoing fiscal consolidation across member states, it is totally unacceptable that the eu's large cohesion budget should remain untouched by these efforts. generally, these reports fail to meet conservative concerns regarding the eu's management of cohesion policy in any meaningful way. they reject any moves to allow richer member states to fund their own regional development and prevent the emergence of a smaller, more efficient and more targeted cohesion policy towards europe's poorest regions. instead, new vehicles of bureaucracy such as the macro-regional entities are proposed, and the nation-state is once again undermined by a determined shift towards regionalism. this age of austerity offers an opportunity for the eu to spend less on old and wasteful priorities. these reports go in entirely the wrong direction.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which welcomes the commission’s proposal to improve coordination between the cohesion fund and the european social fund by means of a common strategic framework; considers it especially important, however, that the specific objectives and flexibility of individual funds should not be restricted at implementation level and that the overall administrative burden should be drastically reduced; supports the commission in its aim to ensure a strengthened, efficient and more visible esf and calls, to this end, on the commission and member states to agree in their negotiations on the necessary amount of esf contribution within the structural funds
in writing. − the parliament has made it clear that europe needs a strong regional policy to reduce regional disparities and benefit everyone across the eu, and i support the measures included in this report. measures such as stronger controls, more transparency and cutting red tape should all be welcomed. meps supported the creation of an intermediate category for those areas that have a gdp between 75% and 90%, creating a buffer for those areas that fall out of convergence, allowing more predictable planning for spending by regions. i also support the adequate funding of the cohesion policy in the future so it can make a real difference to regions across the eu.
in writing. − there is a lack of transparency and public acceptance in development projects funded fully or partially by the eu. i am against calls to find new sources of development funding, such as a financial transaction tax at global level, via private-sector finance and market-orientated solutions. it is up to member states to decide whether they are willing to support developing countries using taxpayers’ money, and not through some eu charity created to bring positive publicity to the eu
in writing. − i welcome this report and the use of budget support as a development tool. however, the eu should continue to only grant budget support to countries in which the following three elements are in place or in the process of being put in place: a) a well-defined national development policy and strategy, b) a stability-oriented macroeconomic framework and c) a credible and appropriate programme for improving public finance management
in writing. − i voted for this report, which supports the issue of european bonds to provide funding for energy infrastructure projects.
in writing. − in voting in favour of the resolution on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, the european parliament has emphasised the integral role that smart and sustainable energy networks play in allowing europe to reach its energy targets. i believe that the eu has an important role to play in energy infrastructure projects that are of european interest, and i support this resolution that proposes that projects must be approved in accordance with their ability to respond to europe’s energy needs. it is important that european added value is demonstrated in every project and that all projects meet the clearly defined criteria. in addition to this, the resolution that i supported highlights the importance of enhancing regional cooperation by promoting regional initiatives that focus on developing energy infrastructure projects that respond to the eu’s needs.
in writing. − social services of general interest have a vital role to play in social cohesion and the fight against poverty. in light of today’s vote, it is vital that the eu institutions continue to respect these ideals.
in writing. − in the rapporteur’s view a reform package should include a framework regulation for sgei1 using article 14 tfeu to define services of general interest and delimit the impact of single market rules. the regulation could distinguish between economic and non-economic sgi, and consolidate and clarify the general principles and common conditions for the successful operation of these services. however the political configuration of the council and the commission makes it unlikely that such legislative can be adopted in the near future, and solutions are required now. i support this.
in writing. − services of general interest account for over a quarter of eu gdp and benefit society as a whole, in addition to employing around 64 million people. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes an updated legal framework to better differentiate social services of general interested from other services. it also focuses on the need to improve funding in this area, which is especially important in the context of the current economic situation, with restrictions being imposed by member state governments. i also back the report’s proposal for the creation of an eu-wide working group because i believe that cooperation between european institutions and social partners will help create measures that can help safeguard these services for the future.
in writing. − there is a lack of transparency and public acceptance in development projects funded fully or partially by the eu. it is up to member states to decide whether they are willing to support developing countries using taxpayers’ money, and not through some eu charity created to bring positive publicity to the eu and creating worldwide eu foreign affairs policy. eu development policy simply shows that the eu wants to replace national states on the global stage.
in writing. − on some of the issues raised in the commission’s green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development, parliament has an established position or is currently preparing reports. the rapporteur will therefore focus this working document on the elements which suggest a change of orientation, in particular the proposals for ‘high impact aid’, the concept of ‘inclusive growth’ and the involvement of the private sector. the future shape of the eu aid policy and the role of the commission, rather than the member states, will be at the centre. in evaluating the commission proposals, we have a clear benchmark, which is article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the primary objective of eu aid must be the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty. the european consensus on development also provides important common values, such as human rights and democracy, and common principles, such as ownership and partnership, which are still valid.
in writing. − paragraph 22 of this report urged the commission and member states to ‘find new sources of development funding such as a financial transactions tax at global level.’ the ecr group would certainly consider a financial transactions tax (ftt) at global level if it could ensure reasonable and equitable contributions from the main donors. however, the s&d group tabled a rcv to this paragraph, which removed the phrase ‘at global level’, thus implying that the ftt should only apply at european level. the ecr group disagrees with this. we believe that would unrealistic to have such a tax at european level, as it would jeopardise development aid and unfairly burden european states. the ecr group also voted against paragraph 79, which identifies one of the ‘root causes of food insecurity’ as ‘food-price speculation’. it is not food-price speculation per se that causes food insecurity, rather the abuses or excesses of speculation. indeed, speculation itself is a vital part of the farming industry. nonetheless, we voted in favour of this report as it calls for a more pragmatic approach to eu development aid, calling for measures to ensure transparency and create a more results-based agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me first of all say a word to mr verhofstadt. he talks about a pr campaign to convince people of the necessity of a rise in the budget. i think he wants to start on his own political family. the two largest components of his group, the german liberals and the british liberal democrats, are both part of governments – the last time i looked – that were calling for a freeze in the european budget. so perhaps he wants to talk to his own group before he tries to convince the rest of us. listening to mr schulz, mr verhofstadt and others, it is sometimes hard to imagine that the supporters of the so-called european project actually want it to succeed because they seem to me, by their proposals, to be doing their very best to discredit the whole idea of the eu in public opinion. because how can the eu justify a substantial, real increase in its budget of something like 5% to 7% at a time when every national exchequer across the whole of the eu is cutting back on their budgets? mr verhofstadt, more europe is not the answer to every one of our problems. the public have long since stopped believing that more europe is the answer to all of our problems. in no country in europe that i am aware of, do they want more europe, perhaps they want a better europe, perhaps they want a more efficient europe, but nowhere – not even in belgium – are people calling for more europe. in none of our member states are the public calling for more european taxes and, frankly, nobody believes you when you say that more european taxes will result in fewer contributions from member states. people believe that they will be paying more money towards europe and, frankly, with some of the speeches that you make, it comes as no surprise to any of us that that is what they believe. this mmf proposal is yet another wish list by a european elite that everyday becomes more and more distant from the concerns of ordinary people. and it is not just david cameron calling for a budget freeze; the leader of the netherlands, the leader of france and the leader of germany are also calling for a budget freeze, mr verhofstadt. we believe that a freeze is the right way to go; it should have been proposed in the first place. that is the proper response of the european union looking at times of austerity across the whole of europe: to say to people that we share your pain, we realise that times are hard in public expenditure. mr barroso, you should be looking for cuts, for reductions in the european budget and this should not be too hard to find. your own court of auditors has refused to approve the eu’s accounts for the last 16 years in a row. a thousand of your civil servants earn more than the british prime minister. mr barroso, there are plenty of opportunities for savings in the european budget. that is where you should be looking for cuts, rather than coming back to member states and asking for more austerity to pay for higher public spending. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i am not taking lessons in democracy and power to the citizens from mr verhofstadt, the person who forced through the lisbon treaty without any referendum. where was his trust in the people then? why did he not ask people if they were in favour of the lisbon treaty? i have not seen his piece of paper, but i have seen a letter signed by president sarkozy, along with david cameron, along with angela merkel, along with the dutch leader, calling for a freeze in the eu budget. it is mr verhofstadt who should get real and get out and try to convince his own political family before he convinces the rest of europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, to the amazement of europe’s citizens, suffering austerity at home, the commission has come up with an effective increase of 11% in the long-term budget. moreover, the proposal has been presented in a misleading manner, in which at least half of the increase is disguised by keeping it out of the budget lines, as is the case with iter or the globalisation adjustment fund, for example. the 5% average under-spend from the eu budget year after year is reason enough to doubt that the commission is asking taxpayers to fund real needs. this time, in addition, the commission’s proposal lacks transparency and definitely cannot be relied upon. the present multiannual financial framework was supposed to support the lisbon strategy, which would make europe the most competitive economy in the world, and look where we are. the one being proposed for the 2014-2020 period is based on the 2020 strategy that will supposedly take us out of the crisis. is anybody seriously able to believe this? ah, but this time the eu is proposing to tax us out of the crisis. indeed, they will burden europeans with yet more taxes, even if they try to convince the public that they are only making the naughty banks pay. far from allowing citizens tight control over the eu budget, as mr verhofstadt recently said, this tax will reduce control over, and room for negotiation on, how eu funds are being spent. member state governments must not allow this to happen.
madam president, i welcome the commitment to use this budget to create jobs, growth and competitiveness, and i am particularly pleased to see the plans to invest in the single market, research and development and the environment. in that respect, the commission is absolutely right, but in demanding a bigger budget to do so, it is absolutely wrong. mr barroso, you chose to ignore the advice of five heads of government to freeze the budget, and you have declined to take those tough spending choices. you could have started by looking to impose the kind of austerity that every other national government is having to introduce at this time. you could have looked to cut waste. you could have been prepared to reassess and reform traditional priorities such as the common agricultural policy, and you might even have shown a willingness to tackle the issues raised by the court of auditors. you could have, but you did not. instead, you are asking for a bigger budget and more tax-raising powers. mr barroso, your instincts are right, but your actions are wrong. at this time of crisis you should have been setting an example for the rest of europe, but by demanding a bigger budget you are demonstrating yet again that you are out of touch with the real economy, and out of touch with the real people.
madam president, at a time of austerity across the eu, the commission should be talking of cutting, not just freezing, the eu budget, thereby relieving the burden on hard pressed taxpayers in member states. my country, the united kingdom, is a large net contributor and in my view should withdraw from the eu altogether. however, in the meanwhile we are being told that we must relinquish what remains of our rebate and make an even larger net contribution. this will be to finance regional policy that should be carried out by member states which know best how to spend their own money; to carry out unnecessary social engineering with their absurd politically correct social targets; to put sticking plasters over the fragmentation of our national societies caused by third world immigration experiments; to pay for propaganda in member states and candidate states to carry out the impossible task of making the eu even less repellent; to provide bribes to so-called neighbourhood countries to seduce them into the web of eu membership; and lastly the ludicrous claim that the new budget will strengthen the management of our borders and tackle serious crime and terrorism. it would do so only if the eu had the will to stop what mr berlusconi has called the human tsunami into europe. it is proposed that the eu should be given the right to levy a tax, so-called own resources, on taxpayers in member states. only sovereign states have the right to levy taxation; this will be the first fiscal step towards full eu statehood.
madam president, it was the greek philosopher democritus who said, ‘it is greed to do all the talking but not to want to listen at all’. these words came to mind when i heard president barroso state, in relation to the eu budget, that ‘it would be the greatest surprise of my life if member states starting supporting me. if they did, i would be worried i was doing something wrong’. surely in these words mr barroso sums up what is wrong with the commission. undemocratic, unaccountable, out-of-touch and, most worryingly of all, it does not care. it is consumed by greed not just for money but for talking. the mff has many flaws. it is unjustifiable that any increases be proposed at this time of austerity across member states. uk contributions to the eu are to rise by eur 1.5 billion a year at a time when our hospitals are understaffed, our schools are closing and pensions are being sacrificed. the city of london, our financial capital, is being attacked and undermined through financial taxes. mr cameron, it is important that you continue to veto such a proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am delighted that, after years of work, we are taking a big step in the right direction in informing consumers about what is in the food that they eat. unfortunately, it seemed at times as though we forgot that this regulation is about food information to consumers. the amount of lobbying from the food and drink industry has been unprecedented, and clearly a lot of money has been spent trying to stop transparent labelling. nevertheless, we have gained many positive things in this compromise. i fought hard for country-of-origin labelling and am pleased that the council has agreed to origin labelling for fresh lamb, pork, goat and poultry, just as we have already for beef, fish, fruit and vegetables. we have also convinced the council that the commission should produce a report, and possible legislation, on the origin of meat in processed food within two years. why is this important? at present i can buy a chicken sandwich which says ‘produced in the uk’ when in fact the chicken has come from thailand. we really do need more transparency about where our food comes from. the issue of trans fats was also of great concern to the socialist group. trans fats are often added unnecessarily to processed foods, when we know that they can increase risks of a whole range of problems, including heart disease, infertility and alzheimer’s disease. this agreement ensures that the commission will investigate the problem and report back within three years. this group will be pushing for an eu-wide ban on added trans fats similar to that currently applied in denmark and austria. i am also proud that we persuaded member states to agree to label all types of vegetable oil. consumers will now be able to see when unsustainable palm oil is used in foods at the expense of precious rainforests and to put pressure on manufacturers to use oil from a sustainable source. the huge disappointment for me is that mandatory front-of-pack labelling has not been adopted. it seems to me that, if we are serious about tackling some of our major health issues, such as obesity, heart disease and diabetes, then we really should have given consumers the information they need to quickly identify healthier options. however, i am glad that existing systems can continue to be used on a voluntary basis, including consumer-friendly schemes such as the traffic-light system. i hope that more and more retailers and manufacturers will start to use them. let us not forget that this is the first time that back-of-pack nutritional labelling will be mandatory under european law, which means that now consumers will always have the opportunity to see how much salt, sugar and fat and other key nutrients are in their food. the vote tomorrow represents real progress for transparent food labelling. we will continue to push for improvements that benefit consumers.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am glad that the council, the commission and parliament reached a consensus on this. we had widely divergent positions but it would have been a shame to see these three years of work, for which we have to congratulate renate sommer, going down the drain the same way as the novel foods bill went down the drain. let me pick up on the point that commissioner dalli raised in his opening remarks about the animals that are slaughtered without pre-stunning, under the derogation on religious grounds for the schechitah jewish method of slaughter and halal. this, as we all know, has been widely abused. the derogation has been abused, so that many millions of animals are being slaughtered in this way now and the meat products from those animals are finding their way into the general food chain. we felt very strongly that the consumers in europe have a right to know when they are buying those products. i am glad to hear mr dalli say that he will now produce a strong animal welfare draft regulation that covers this issue. this house expects nothing less.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. consumers have the right to expect information given on food labels to be correct and not misleading. nutritional information is important to the consumer and the quality standard with which the food complies is important for consumer choice and for consumer safety. all of these are good things to have emerged from the report. however, i want to highlight one particular area where i have concerns. that is any potential change in country-of-origin labelling. while having sympathy with the concept, i have reservations as to the potential impact on trade. in northern ireland, local business has already seen how something like country-of-origin labelling could and can be used as a protectionist measure. this has had a negative impact on trade in northern ireland, and producers and processors have suffered as a result. i know that this is a matter of concern for the member states which have voiced that concern at council level. i would urge the commission to carry out an impact assessment to investigate any proposed labelling legislation, particularly in relation to country-of-origin labelling.
mr president, i would also like to add my congratulations to dr sommer and the hard-working shadows. this seems to have been a long time coming. i have only been here since the last election, so it must seem an awfully long time to you. i am delighted to be able to support this package and take the opportunity to welcome greater honesty and transparency on food labels. this dossier has really ignited consumer interest. we have all had hundreds and thousands of communications from our constituents and i would like to pay my tribute to organisations such as the women’s institute in the uk, who have also done their bit on the campaigning side. of course nobody is ever 100% satisfied but we have a significant way forward in a number of areas. we have a clear forward on country-of-origin labelling. a lot of us argued for this and i think we have a good compromise here. nutritional data on pack is understandable, more useable, plus member states are able to continue with their own discretional schemes, and all of this legible too. so i think this regulation will make a significant contribution to healthy eating in europe and, as such, it is very welcome.
mr president, the eu world view is that it knows best about everything, from global warming scare stories to food labels. but the truth is that it is the consumer who is paying and not the eu and the consumer will choose what he or she wants to eat. of course, some kind of labelling is just common sense, whether it is nutritional information or allergies but i would suggest that much of this report is nannying in the excess. i also fear that it will come at a cost and that that cost will then be pushed onto the consumer, which seems to me to be particularly dangerous at a time of an economic downturn. but here is the crux and i repeat it in almost every speech i give. we all know that the uk can pass laws itself, indeed our parliament was known as the mother of parliaments for many years. this is a decision that should be taken at nation state level.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all can i warmly congratulate the rapporteur. i think there is no better person in this house to bring forward this report. her experience, going back to the last parliament and things that have been outlined, is well known. i know she has certain views, but she has got to understand that those of us who come from the uk react maybe in a different way when we talk about bringing this back, because of the experiences which mrs paulsen referred to earlier on. i can support the rapporteur in a lot of what she says in her report and very much the compromise on the issue of tolerance, because we have got to understand that those who actually produce the feedstuff produce it in very difficult circumstances. mills producing feedstuff are dusty, so let us be very realistic about that. so, commissioner, if you are going to move forward – and i personally have no objections to you moving forward – i ask you to move slowly and make sure that you take the people with you and explain every detail. i think that is going to be very important but i think above all else we must inform the people where we are going.
madam president, i agree with the rapporteur in relation to the key goals of this piece of work, of providing consumer confidence and protection. improving animal health and the eradication of tses are, of course, most important. i am concerned that the commission has suggested reducing eu funding for research. the number of cases has reduced significantly from 2001 as a result of the steps taken, but we cannot afford to let down our guard on this issue. any changes in the regulation should be as a result of clear scientific evidence, ensuring surveillance is not reduced and that the sample size for testing is adequate to detect bsc. any lifting of the feed ban must be thoroughly investigated and the issue of cross contamination fully addressed. i am concerned by colleagues in this chamber who indicate that, because of a protein deficit in europe, we should therefore simply move on. i feel very strongly that this would be disturbing for consumers, for farmers, for processors and for new markets that exporting countries like northern ireland would want to get into.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0411/2011). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question 14 by gay mitchell (h-000234/11) subject: national asset management agency it is now over a year since the commission approved the establishment of the national asset management agency (nama) in ireland under state aid rules. in light of the potential effects of the nama scheme on european competition law, the commission requested, and obtained, a commitment from the irish authorities that yearly reports would be submitted to both the commission and the irish national competition authorities on the use of nama’s post-acquisition powers. a year on, is the commission still satisfied with the nama scheme?
question 15 by pat the cope gallagher (h-000244/11) subject: irish banking sector can the commission outline the advantages and disadvantages of plans by the irish government to create two-pillar institutions in the irish banking sector? on a recent visit to ireland, the commissioner for competition noted concerns in relation to this strategy.
question 16 by mairead mcguinness (h-000247/11) subject: proper functioning of the food supply chain the share of agriculture in the food supply chain fell from 29% in 2000 to 24% in 2005, while over the same period the share of the food industry, wholesale and distribution sector all increased (commission cap communication november 2010). does the commission believe that competition policy has a role to play in addressing concerns regarding the proper functioning of the food supply chain and to ensure that producers are paid a fair price, given that these figures demonstrate that a growing share of revenue is being taken by others in the supply chain who have market power over primary producers? what existing competition law provisions could be used to address this issue and where could the application of these provisions be broadened? does the commission intend to tackle the lack of transparent pricing in the food supply chain? would the commission consider it beneficial to initiate a sector inquiry to examine the behaviour of dominant actors in the supply chain and to determine how to address the unfair commercial practices that undoubtedly exist?
question 17 by nadezhda neynsky (h-000252/11) subject: financing of belene nuclear power plant with state aid under the eu’s nuclear illustrative programme, projects to build nuclear power plants in the union may not be funded via state aid, and other solutions need to be identified, such as financing by private operators or from the capital markets. the planned bulgarian state guarantees for the belene project fall under the heading of ‘state aid’. in this connection, would the commission approve financing for the belene project which was contingent in one way or another on state guarantees? has the commission’s competition dg been consulted by the bulgarian government, under the urgent procedure, as to whether this type of financing could be approved and, if so, what stage have the consultations reached? does the bgn 300 million already allocated to the construction of the belene plant in 2008 constitute state aid? have proceedings been opened in that regard and, if so, when will the relevant decision be announced?
question 19 by marian harkin (h-000220/11) subject: regulation (ec) no 561/2006 can the commission comment on the situation where regulation (ec) no 561/2006 would prevent drivers from working more than 30 hours per week? what remedies would the commission propose? for example, a person drives a short school run of less than 40km, twice per day each day from monday to friday, for between five and six hours. he has the opportunity on a saturday to drive another run for between six and nine hours, finishing on saturday at 20.00 (including an uninterrupted break of 45 minutes), but the required weekly rest period of 45 hours means that he cannot start his school bus run at 08.00 on monday. how does the commission propose to deal with situations like this where the application of the directive means that drivers – as in this example – are restricted to driving 30 hours per week and unable to earn a living?
question 21 by ismail ertug (h-000226/11) subject: commission's position on mega-trucks so-called mega-trucks are to be brought into operation for trial purposes in freight transport in some german länder. given that these trucks weigh up to 60 tonnes and are more than 25 metres long, there is no doubt that they will cause more wear and tear on infrastructure than conventional lorries. there is also a risk that using these vehicles will cause lasting damage to the goal of bringing about a modal shift to rail transport. in the transport white paper the commission referred to independent studies on the possible use of longer and heavier trucks. have these studies already produced results? does the commission have a clear position for or against the use of mega-trucks?
question 22 by marc tarabella (h-000237/11) subject: airlines' non-compliance with regulation (ec) no 261/2004 with regard to protection and information for passengers regulation (ec) no 261/2004 came into force in 2005, with the key aim of ensuring that airline passengers were protected and properly informed. the commission has run its own awareness-raising campaigns on the subject, yet airlines repeatedly violate the regulation, leaving passengers without swift and effective remedies. meanwhile, online booking has turned into a racket: a ticket from brussels to strasbourg with an ordinary carrier, advertised and heavily promoted at the price of eur 98, ends up costing a total of eur 219.60, including am additional ‘fuel fee’. can the commission indicate when and how it intends to ensure that the member states apply regulation (ec) no 261/2004 and to require them to introduce arrangements for rapid and effective compensation?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.00 and resumed at 21.00)
colleagues, i apologise to those who have had to suffer the catering tonight in the european parliament. it is quite the worst i have ever had. it is a shame for france.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council facilitating cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences (17506/1/2010 – c7-0074/2011 – 2008/0062(cod)) (rapporteur: inés ayala sender) (a7-0208/2011).
mr el khadraoui, i am so sorry but apparently there is no polish interpreter at present. no doubt they have been struck by food poisoning as a result of the disgusting food in parliament tonight. can we just pause while we sort this problem out.
mr president, mr gollnisch mentioned that collecting speeding fines in his country had become a kind of presidential hobby. he mentions the number of british drivers who are caught and fined for speeding: would he accept that the system that is run in france of on-the-spot fines, with the number of speed cameras that there are on the motorways as you enter france, is wide open to corruption, and that levying on-the-spot fines without any real receipt is another form of corruption in france?
mr president, while saving lives must be of paramount concern to any legislature including this one, and to national governments, i believe in this case that citing that reason is disingenuous. on amendment 2, it is clear that there would need to be harmonisation of fixed penalties – another small step towards a european superstate. i have driven in most european countries, including eastern european countries, and driving conditions are highly inconsistent, as are signage and driving rules. how can you have a consistent policy here? i am glad the uk will be opting out, because one of the things we have, which some eu states do not have, is the right to appeal to a court: the right to appearance in court for all traffic offences. the position on this is inconsistent across the eu. is the aim, in fact, to have a single complete legal system?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by luis de grandes pascual, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on aviation security with a special focus on security scanners (2010/2154(ini)) (a7-0216/2011), and– the commission statement on the liquids (lag) ban on aircraft.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr de grandes pascual for all his hard work – and likewise his staff – as well as his contribution to this debate. as the original rapporteur for the regulation on common rules for aviation security post-9/11, i fully appreciate the need for a common approach. it is essential that we find a more sophisticated way forward in the fight against terrorism, and to achieve one-stop security we must have uniform rules. additional measures need to be applied in a harmonised and coherent manner. in my view, body scanners could be a formidable additional tool in the fight against terrorism, but their deployment is extremely controversial, and i have frequently raised issues in this regard in relation to concerns about health and privacy. we must, therefore, deploy the best technological equipment. technology such as millimetre-wave scanning is already available to address the health, privacy and data-protection concerns of our constituents. agreeing on the most appropriate equipment is crucial, however, because if we are in a position where we have to exempt huge swathes of people on medical or ethical grounds, then there really is no point in proceeding with this measure. i must also stress that we should not regard body scanners as a silver bullet. if correctly deployed and managed, they will prove useful as part of a more efficient security procedure across the eu. all governments must work together: better cross-border intelligence, counter-terrorism measures and the use of central reservation systems and passenger profiling to identify potential terrorists before they reach our airports are essential. the societies which we have built and the values which they embody deserve proper protection, and we must not forget that. briefly, with regard to the liquids ban, i am not surprised that member states were not ready in april of this year. this is a crucial decision that cannot be rushed: so 2014 certainly sounds like a more realistic date. even then, i do not wish to see confusion and chaos and passenger disruption, because all that has been bad enough for the past 10 years. finally, we know that the aviation sector is hugely important to the uk and other member states in terms of manufacturing, tourism, high-skill and high-tech jobs and revenue generation. as rule-makers we must therefore ensure that we provide a clear vision on security so that the industry can plan for the future.
mr president, allow me first of all to thank mr de grandes pascual for his excellent report, which is wide-ranging and very thorough. i believe the commission has taken a positive step in including in their deliberations a great deal of parliament’s position as contained in his report. i want to focus on the liquids and gel regulation. what happened in april this year was nothing short of a farce, perpetrated by some member states who, under pressure from their biggest airports, put the commission and this parliament in a very difficult position. the easing of the liquids ban planned for april 2011 fell not because of security considerations but because of financial considerations. airports were not prepared to pay for new machines and, through their european industry body, they lobbied the member states accordingly, some of whom caved in and ratted on the agreement that they had reached with parliament on this matter. so, what now? what guarantee can we have from member states that when april 2013 comes around they will not do the same again? how can we trust the member states? we need to ensure that the european civil aviation conference does its work and trials machines in airports and not just in laboratories; that the commission and the usa iron out their differences; and that this time next year we have a progress report on where we are with the liquid scanners, so that in 2013 we do not find ourselves placed in a similar position to that of 2011. we need a clear timetable leading up to 2013. can i also ask the commissioners: who will sit on the new stakeholders group? surely the machine-makers should be involved, as well as the airports and airlines. what april 2011 taught us was how poor communication had been among all those involved – with each side saying something completely different at different times. taken together with mr de grandes pascual’s report and the clear statement from the commission, the steps i have outlined should help us in taking an eu-wide approach to the whole issue of aviation security. however, i will be honest: after this april’s fiasco, i frankly do not believe that the member states have the will to deliver. i for one do not trust them anymore.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on women and business leadership (2010/2115(ini)) (a7-0210/2011).
(asking mr tarabella a blue-card question under rule 149(8) mr tarabella, you said that quotas were a necessary evil. would you agree with me that all forms of discrimination are wrong and that discrimination – including positive discrimination – creates victims? and therefore do you agree with legislating for victims?
mr president, firstly i would like to say that i do believe that this should stay as a member state issue. i think it is essential for each member state to look at its own economy. we have 27 very different economies and i think different rules work better if member states look at their own strengths and weaknesses. i am completely opposed to quotas. i have got where i am through my own merit, i did not need any quota on two scores, being openly gay or being a woman. i did not need quotas either way to succeed. i come from a country that had the first woman prime minister in the western world, so women can succeed on their own merit. what we need to do is look at providing advantages at a lower level. greater child care: member states should invest in greater child care. greater use of technology will allow more women to stay in the workplace. but i come back to this: discrimination is discrimination. if you are a man who has worked for 20 or 30 years and you focus on a job but you do not get that job because there is a quota in place, you are a victim. you only get one life and your professional life has been taken away from you. that is wrong.
we had also worked that out on the praesidium here – if you consider israel to be part of the western world. do not worry, nikki, you do not have to answer that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 july 2011
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in replying to mr tusk, having listened to his words this morning, i have to ask him this. in an age when the gap between ordinary voters and the european political class grows wider by the day, just what planet are you on? why the pretence that everything is going incredibly well? the eu is mired in deep structural crisis. greece, portugal and ireland cannot survive inside the euro. the danes have torn up the schengen agreement, and good for them, because the total free movement of peoples is a completely irresponsible thing to have done. public opinion is saying that, whilst they want a european cooperation – yes, of course i agree with that – what they do not want is this europe, run by unelected bureaucrats like mr barroso. you say the eu is fantastic in a recent comment. you are supporting the destruction of national democracy. but it is with reference to greece that i am most concerned about you because, when faced with their recent enslavement, you said: ‘we lived for many years as a non-sovereign country, under soviet occupation. for us european integration is not a threat to sovereignty because we experienced not long ago a serious threat to our sovereignty.’ so what are you saying? that this is not quite as bad as the ussr? is that really good enough for your people? and today you describe greece’s problems as trivial. i am sorry, there are hundreds of thousands of people out there on the streets of greece fighting to get their democracy back. it beggars belief that you and our president, mr buzek, can talk about the solidarity movement, about poland getting its democracy back 20 years ago. yet here you are, surrendering the democracy and sovereignty of poland to a failed european union. yes, sir. we all want a shared european cooperation for the future, but this most definitely is not the model. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr goebbels, post-1945 there were some very sensible ideas put together, namely the council of europe. let us have a europe where we sit down together, where we have a free trade agreement and where we agree minimum standards on work and on the environment. we can do all of these things without a european commission, without a european parliament and without a european court of justice. we have done it in security terms with nato. yes, it will mean you will lose your job, mr barroso. but, apart from that, why can we not do things as mature democracies? yes, mr schulz, i want you sacked as well – i want you all fired! we can do these things, and that is a positive way forward. by taking away from people their ability to govern themselves and transferring that power to the european commission, we are headed for a europe of rebellion and violence. let us take the democratic route. (mixed reactions)
mr president, given its history of fighting soviet totalitarism, poland certainly has a good track record. i know that the polish presidency of the council is opposed to an eu financial transaction tax, and, while the eu political elite may not agree with that line, i suspect the citizens of europe will breathe a collective sigh of relief. poland will understand the dangers of entering into an asymmetrical relationship where russia holds the whip – and that is precisely the situation in which the eu finds itself at present. to use a football analogy, watching russia manoeuvring against the eu is like watching liverpool playing tranmere rovers: we all know what the result will be. poland understands the need to engage with moldova and ukraine, two countries that moscow pulled back into its orbit with ease. vladimir putin was once afraid that history would remember him as the man who lost ukraine. that accolade now goes to president barroso. on one hand, poland’s record might give us reason for optimism but, on the other hand, i am sorry to say that the presidency of the council is now diminished since herman van rompuy and catherine ashton took charge of eu foreign policy. on a final note, the gift you gave us, mr president of the council, is very nice but you do not need to give gifts to massively overpaid politicians. use the money, instead, to give to the poor people in your own country.
mr ferber, you used the expression ‘commitment to europe’ in your speech. do you accept that there is a clear distinction and fundamental difference between europe as a continent, which is a geographical entity, and the european union, which is a purely political construction? do you accept and understand that there is a difference?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the first report of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis clearly identified the many causes of the financial crisis and their subsequent consequences for the eu and the global economy. i was confident that the second report would concentrate on what measures we would propose to ensure long-term growth and competitiveness in order to ensure the eu’s future prosperity. i am disappointed, therefore, that we cannot support the final result. the very idea that ‘more europe’ – the central thesis of the final report – is the eu solution to a global economic crisis is one that my constituents in wales are unable to relate to. it is not obvious how the eu speaking with one voice at the imf or having one single european commissioner to deal with financial services legislation could somehow have prevented the worst financial crisis since the great depression or indeed how these measures will fuel the economic growth necessary for europe to recover from the ongoing crisis. yet, the most sinister part of the report – there seems to be a use of the crisis as an excuse to renegotiate membership of the eu – is the idea that the eu budget should be increased to 5% – 10% of the eu’s gdp. to put this in perspective, at the moment certain member states, including my own, are quite rightly refusing to allow a 5% increase in the eu budget. yet this report proposes up to a 900% increase. i think more than five member states will be happy to sign a letter protesting against this suggestion of a 900% increase. my group fundamentally disagrees with many of the other issues raised in this report, like tax-raising powers for the eu and a common immigration policy. therefore, i urge others to vote against this report today.
mr president, the way that we are running this parliament is becoming increasingly shambolic. that is no reflection on you, mr president, because i know you try very hard to move us along. we were told that votes would be at 12.30; we now cannot predict when the votes will be. can we not come to a conclusion at the conference of presidents that there will be a fixed voting time every day there is a sitting, so that we all know where we stand, the president in the chair can cut people off at the right time, and if necessary the debate can be adjourned so members can come back after the votes? otherwise, we are looking increasingly pathetic. (applause)
madam president, i will be brief. i have been prevented from being present in this chamber for the past two days due to the actions of racist, violent extremists who, as a mob of around 40 or so, targeted my family home whilst we were present and carried out a spree of violent activity in my original home town. were it not for the swift action of lancashire police in carrying out arrests and bringing charges, and their provision of security for my family, i would not be able to be present here now. today i send a clear message to all violent extremists that we will not cower in the face of their intimidation and violence. our vision for our countries and this union is very different to their divisiveness and hate. collectively we will face them. (applause)
madam president, i wish to speak in favour of the sommer report on food labelling. this is a good step forward in providing full information to the consumer. it will improve the nutritional information that consumers receive and it will also clarify where food has come from, in particular meat. we need to end the scandal whereby an animal reared in country x and slaughtered in country y is then imported into britain, processed, and sold as british meat. that is a scandal that must end because consumers must have confidence that, when something is labelled as british, it really is british.
madam president, the stealthy harmonisation of social security across europe has been one of the great unreported stories of recent months. it has happened not as the result of a decision of this house or of any of the national legislatures. it has been driven, rather, by creative interpretation on the commission’s part and judicial activism by the european court of justice. the european treaties provide for free movement and settlement where the person moving is able to support himself, either from a pension or by working in the host country, but a series of recent cases has undermined the basis of that agreement. we have had the case of a portuguese national who worked in germany and is claiming german benefits on his return to portugal, and we have dutch nationals who are denied dutch benefits when they move abroad, whereas foreign nationals continue to claim them if they have been in holland. we have a similar case in britain: a pensioner from one of the baltic states who is claiming supplementary benefits because her baltic pension is not enough to support her. the point is not just that this attacks the basis of national statehood, which is discrimination on the basis of nationality. i do not expect much sympathy when i say that in this house, but surely those on the left will also understand that it breaks the social compact on which the whole post-war welfare system is based, because you cannot ask people to pay into a system if anyone else is then able to arrive and claim from it without having paid a penny into it.
madam president, as we look ahead to 2012 i would like to offer the following advice to the commission. the first piece of advice is to stop asking for more money. you have plenty of money. at a time of austerity, when national governments are cutting budgets, it is absurd that you are asking for more. mr barroso, you have more than one thousand officials who currently earn more than the british prime minister. we have two seats for the parliament. there is plenty of waste; use your resources more wisely. the second piece of advice is: account for the money you are given. our accounts have not been signed off for sixteen years, so aim to have the court of auditors approve them in 2012. seventeenth time lucky, perhaps. thirdly, concentrate on what you do best. complete the single market and strive for free trade around the world. free markets will do more to improve the conditions of our citizens and those in developing nations than any number of european regulations, initiatives and agencies could ever achieve.
madam president, in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks and other terrorist attacks, clearly all countries have had to face a difficult debate on getting the right balance between security and liberty. the issue has always been one of great difficulty for authorities. but what concerns me about the use of these scanners is where there is no alternative. fortunately, an alternative is called for in this report, but there are still a number of countries around the world where you are refused the right to travel if you refuse to use a scanner. there are genuine concerns. there are still people who are medically trained who are frequent travellers and who complain about the health hazards of travelling. but in particular i would like to point out one problem which some of my constituents have written to me about: the problem that arises for people who carry colostomy bags or ileostomy bags. if people who carry those refuse to be scanned, they are either refused travel or what happens in the end is that they are subjected to the most amazing humiliation in front of fellow-travellers. it is about time staff were trained better and made to be more sensitive to members of the travelling public who suffer from these problems.
madam president, when i was a teenager i travelled in what we still thought of as eastern europe and i remember being struck, even then, by the paradox that here was a system that nobody believed in. even the people running it no longer professed, if ever they had, the principles of marxism-leninism. yet one could not see how it was going to end because so many people had a vested interest in the maintenance of the status quo. i had an eerie sense of nostalgia as i listened to the debate this morning. one by one, the pillars that sustained the european ideal have been kicked away and yet we continue to tell ourselves that the answer is more integration, more europe, monetary and fiscal union, common economic governance, and so on. the schengen treaty is collapsing as governments begin to reimpose border controls, and now the euro is also showing itself to be unsustainable. yet the apparat of europe in this house and in the palaces and chancelleries of the continent continues to trot out the same slogans about ever-closer union, not to convince the voters, not even really to convince themselves – not any more – but simply because they do not know what else to do.
madam president, as i listened to the debate this morning on the financial crisis, i was struck by how much we have not really learnt from the crisis. why have we not learnt the lessons that governments should not print money too cheaply, and that when you print money cheaply the citizens think they have more money than they have and they make what ludwig von mises called ‘malinvestments’. and when the market corrects itself the whole bubble bursts and the market crashes. that is what we saw with credit first. why have we not learnt the lessons that individuals and governments and families should not spend more money than they earn? surely, of all the countries, greece should have learnt that, and other countries around the eu. they simply got themselves into trouble because they spent money they did not have. why have we not tackled the real problem in the financial system, which is the fact that banks are deemed too big to fail? in which other industry do we really now believe that if you get into trouble you should have taxpayers’ money to bail yourself out? if you actually leave it to the market then other competitors will come forward. worst of all, we think that governments can spend money better than the private sector and create jobs. the last country to do that was the ussr. let us not go that way.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it aims to establish a harmonised list of acceptable travel documents which may be endorsed with a visa upon entry into an eu member state. it is another step towards the creation of a pan-european immigration policy when it is essential that individual nations are able to control their own borders.
in writing. − i voted for this report, the purpose of which is to create legal certainty with regard to the list of travel documents, therefore the rapporteur proposes to clarify the consequences of a failure to notify a member state’s position in the given time period. this provision is consistent with the exclusive competence of member states for the recognition of travel documents since they would always have the right to notify that they do not recognise the travel document concerned.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which asks the commission, in order to create a coherent, consistent and effective eu structure marshalling all resources, to urgently present an appropriate proposal for a strategic plan containing a single framework for all aspects of eu cyber security, to ensure full protection and resilience of network and critical information infrastructures, including minimum safety standards and certifications, a common terminology, cyber incident management and a road map on cyber security. it takes the view that such a plan should define the contributions required from each actor, including the commission, member states, enisa, europol, eurojust, eu and national computer emergency response teams and other relevant eu and national bodies and authorities, as well as the private sector, and also address the eu’s role and representation internationally.
in writing. − this report outlines the eu’s intention to provide fast broadband to homes and businesses across the eu. broadband is of vital importance if the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy are to be achieved, if and we are to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the eu’s objectives should include enabling all regions and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, and this report – along with its complementary initiatives – takes important steps to achieving this.
in writing. − i have voted against the creation of the new eu tool which would create a harmonised system of data protection legislation. it represents yet another approach towards creation of one-size-fits-all eu-wide legislation. i cannot support any calls to harmonise member states’ legislation, especially in the area of the protection of the citizens, when each country should have sovereignty over all of the competences involved.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission to streamline and strengthen current procedures for international data transfers – legally binding agreements and binding corporate rules – and to define the ambitious core eu data protection aspects to be used in international agreements; it stresses that the provisions of eu personal data protection agreements with third countries should give european citizens the same level of personal data protection as that provided within the european union.
in writing. − consumers have the right to expect the information given on food labels to be correct and not misleading. nutritional information is important to the consumer, and the quality standard to which the food complies is important for consumer choice and safety. in relation to country of origin, i agree with the concept but i have some reservations in relation to the potential impact on trade. in northern ireland local business has seen how country of origin labelling can be used as a protectionist measure. this has had a negative impact on trade and northern ireland producers and processors have suffered as a result. i do know this is a matter which many member states who are reliant on exports have voiced concern over. it is imperative that the commission carry out an impact assessment to investigate the potential effect of new food labelling legislation. i am concerned about the commission’s ability to adopt common-sense measures in the implementation of this regulation, in particular the manner of indicating the country of origin or place of provenance and, therefore, am unwilling to lend my support to this report in this area.
in writing. − 1. we have previously voted against the following legislation, which removes our right to control our own food labelling. we do not support this existing legislation and do not confirm it in this vote: council regulation (ec) no 509/2006 – which prevents us labelling our own products as, for example, ‘welsh beef’ and ‘cheddar cheese’, without eu permission. 2. further, it also gives the commission unspecified powers to apply delegated acts in the future, thus changing the legislation in a manner which they choose, without reference to the ep members or any voting process in the ep. 3. we also have previously voted against the following legislation, which removes our right to control our own food labelling, we do not support this existing legislation and do not confirm it in this vote: council regulation (ec) no 510/2006 on protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, which even removes our power to freely designate a product as ‘english’ or ‘welsh’ or ‘scottish’: article 2, section b: “ ‘geographical indication’ means the name of a region, a specific place or, in exceptional cases, a country...”
in writing. − thanks to today’s vote food shoppers will be able to make better informed, healthier choices as the result of new eu food labelling rules. labels will have to spell out a food’s energy content as well as fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar, protein and salt levels, in a way that makes them easy for consumers to read.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new rules that will introduce clearer nutritional labelling and a country-of-origin labelling on products and make information on allergens easier to read on packaging. it is vitally important that customers are provided with clear information about the produce that they are buying in order to ensure that they make informed choices when shopping. shoppers have the right to know where the food they are buying comes from and what exactly is in the products and these changes will bring clarity to the traceability of foods in the eu.
in writing. − i welcome today's vote but regret that, because of a uk government decision, drivers of non-british vehicles in the uk remain free to speed, drink and drive, jump red lights and not wear a seatbelt with limited fear of prosecution. the new european measure makes it possible for governments to share information on road traffic offences and prosecute dangerous drivers in their own country.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree with the rapporteur that ‘the european parliament cannot consent to this proposal for a draft council regulation on the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013. after taking legal advice the european parliament considers that the current interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of 17.5.2006 continues to remain in force in the meantime, with the exception of the articles listed in annex which have become obsolete following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, until the new regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework enters into force. and it insists on genuine negotiations, in line with tfeu article 312(5), on any future proposals.’
in writing. − i would like to express my disappointment at the result of the vote on the proposal for the commission's work programme 2012, which disregards much of the hard work that parliamentary committees have carried out following extensive dialogue with commissioners to scrutinise policy priorities for the forthcoming year. this undermines the expertise of committees and has given rise to several serious omissions of proposals which committees had stressed were vital in 2012. while the rules of the framework agreement required the resolution to reflect the summary report produced by the conference of committee chairs, the final resolution, supported by the epp, s&d and alde groups, was instead merely a wish-list of vague long-standing political beliefs. these even included issues, such as defence capability, where the commission has no role. the call for enhanced financial resources was also unrealistic and unacceptable. therefore, the ecr voted against the resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which among other things stresses that the economic crisis still remains to be addressed by means of the development of an economic governance framework with the power to enforce fiscal discipline and coordination, stabilise monetary union and raise the level of investment in productive jobs; urges the commission to bring forward as soon as possible proposals for a permanent crisis mechanism managed under union rules, a feasibility study on the setting-up of a system for the common issuance of european sovereign bonds on the basis of joint and several liability and proposals to fully integrate the eu 2020 strategy into the stability framework and for a single external representation arrangement for the eurozone.
in writing. − i find it regrettable that the funding for iter, the fusion project in culham, oxfordshire, in my region has yet again been left hanging in the air. my disappointment is equally shared between the institutions. the responsibility for the project has been fraught with problems, some caused by ignorance (deliberate and otherwise) of ‘fusion’ as against ‘fission’. yes, it is an expensive project but this commitment holds out a promise of energy supply absent of the problems of nuclear and fossil fuels. the excellent work of the 500 international scientists must continue and the commission and council must ensure the continuity of funding.
in writing. − i welcome the work which has been done to date by the commission and the industry in reducing the cases of bse throughout the eu. the goal should continue to be the eradication of bse, and, to do this, we must continue to have a stringent surveillance programme and funding for research. i believe any progression must be under clear scientific evidence but with the support of the consumer. upholding consumer confidence, safety of goods and animal welfare standards are the key goals. the industry has worked extremely hard and suffered huge losses since the outbreak of bse in the uk in the late 1990s. northern ireland is slowly recovering and now exports large quantities of red meat all over the world and into new markets; any question mark over the quality of our meat could have repercussions for the industry. i believe the commission must work to find a reliable system to identify species origin of paps. cross contamination within animal feed production must be addressed before any further steps are taken by the commission.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which stesses that the age limits for testing for bse can be raised only after a thorough risk assessment.
in writing. − i voted for this report. successive terrorist alerts, first in the united kingdom, when an explosive package was found on a cargo plane, and subsequently in greece, when the greek police intercepted a number of parcel bombs addressed to a senior figure and various embassies in athens, have obliged the eu to take measures in proportion to the new risks that have been detected. parliament is therefore taking up the challenge of analysing the measures adopted and proposing others where appropriate, with a view to preventing risks on the basis of an integral view of civil aviation security.
in writing. − as i am the strongest advocate of effective security measures against terrorism at our airports and to protect passengers and cargo, i voted in favour of the report. however, it places excessive emphasis on a range of ‘human rights’ concerns and insists on regular mention of the eu charter of fundamental rights, which we opposed and which is now yet another of the baleful consequences of the treaty of lisbon. by definition, effective security measures must be ‘discriminatory’ – they must be targeted primarily against those most likely to fit the current threat profile. this will not just be a matter of race, or religion or place of origin – although these may be important factors – but also of behaviour and other aspects. security measures that alienate the innocent travelling public but do not focus on the most likely suspects are counter-productive. and airports will remain insecure as long as there is weak airside access control of employees and contract staff.
in writing. − this report has achieved a balance between aviation security and the dignity and privacy of passengers. meps have supported calls that selection for scanning should be random, with no discriminatory profiling of passengers on any criteria, including for example sex, ethnicity or religion. built in to the parliament’s message to the commission is a right to opt for alternative screening that will guarantee the same level of effectiveness of security, which should not give rise to suspicion in any case. the parliament has also called on the commission to lift the ban on carry-on liquids by 2013, and has called on member states to ensure that adequate technology is in place by that time.
in writing. − although i do recognise the importance of a female presence in business, i cannot agree with the european parliament that we need to introduce the idea of quotas of 30% in the largest listed eu companies by 2015 and 40% by 2020. people should be employed upon merit and positive discrimination is often counter productive. successful women want to feel that they have achieved or earned their positions and have not been gifted them. if member states had a greater say over the operation of business from working hours to childcare and paternity leave, each country would be able to address the issues that have led to the divide between men and women particular to their culture rather than enforce quotas upon already over-regulated industries. i am for the empowering the role of women sensu largo, but at the same time i am against any form of discrimination, as well the so-called ‘positive discrimination ‘.
in writing. − i warmly welcome this report in which parliament has declared its support for efforts to increase women’s presence on boards of directors, with a target of 30% female membership by 2015 and 40% by 2020, to be achieved through voluntary measures and self-regulation. should that approach fail to produce convincing results, recourse to goal-specific initiatives at union level will be considered. the commission has recently stepped up its activities in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it is important to consider quotas to increase female representation on boards of directors.
in writing. − in light of recent reports on the number of women at director level across the eu, which found that more women in high-level positions in financial institutions would have meant the financial crisis would not have been so severe, i welcome this report. this report sends a strong message to companies that the eu is serious about addressing the gender gap, and that if they will not take voluntary action the commission will come forward with legislative proposals including introducing quotas. evidence proves that companies with a higher percentage of women in senior positions tend to perform better both commercially and financially, but the parliament underlines that recruitment should nonetheless still be based on skill, qualifications and experience and not positive discrimination, which only diminishes the position of women in the workforce.
in writing. − whilst i am the strongest advocate of women in leadership positions in management and business, i am unable to support this report, due to the adoption of amendments calling for and supporting eu-set binding legislative targets and quotas. i am a businesswoman and have been for the past 25 years. the value of women in the business world cannot be underestimated, and studies have shown that women’s participation in boardrooms and corporate businesses can increase the profitability of a company. this being said, i believe that the best person should get the job and that appointments should not be made on the basis of gender. in my experience, it is clear that imposed quotas do not advance gender equality. i do not believe in patronising women. i want to see women getting the top job because they are excellent at what they do, not because they fulfil a quota. i, along with my political group, fundamentally oppose the setting by the eu of binding and legislative targets and quotas for women, and believe that national governments and business communities are better placed to decide when and how they encourage women to participate in business and management.
in writing. − although it would appear more effort is needed to resolve the financial crisis, using even more taxpayers’ money appropriated by the eu is unacceptable. what markets and consumers need is greater flexibility and purchasing power enshrined within domestic law that provides for the idiomatic economic and financial circumstances within each country. creating further eu competences while increasing eu budgetary powers, alongside green strategies and eu taxes, would stifle markets through pan-european homogenisation. the euro zone contagion is the product of erroneous legislation connected with the common currency. it follows that i do not support an increase in the eu budget or a further increase to the scope of the eu’s own resources.
in writing. − i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against the rises in the budget and the shift in competences away from national to european where they involved spending. critical to this decision has been the recent cuts governments across the eu have had to make in order to ensure balanced budgets and to cut deficits. therefore, at this time i believe it would not be sensible to vote for rises. furthermore, i cannot support the reduction of national representatives to the imf when it is the member states who are contributing to the fund. i have supported other aspects i believe to be useful and appropriate.
in writing. − i voted against, as i cannot support an eu seat in imf meetings since this would be at the expense of the uk. nor can support an increase in the eu budget.
the next item is the joint debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the arab world and north africa, syria and yemen.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, six months after the start of the arab spring, the countries in the middle east and north africa remain in flux. egypt deserves credit for prosecuting former president mubarak and his family for corruption. its military has generally shown wisdom and restraint in its handling of the political vacuum in the country. the ecr hopes to see a new president emerge in september who can restore egypt’s rightful place as leader of the arab world. by the way, ms de keyser, there is an arab world, there is also an arab league, and that is the face for the arab world. after the elections, i hope that the muslim brotherhood will stick to their pledge to honour the concept of democratic pluralism and that egypt will maintain the peace accords with israel. these are vital for regional security. egypt needs massive eu direct aid and loan finance now from the eib and ebrd. i welcome baroness ashton’s initiatives in this area; we must help stabilise this key country’s economy. tunisia is also beginning to make tangible progress towards a more stable future, but remains destabilised by the ongoing upheavals in neighbouring libya. it is essential for the credibility of the eu and for nato – which is enforcing the un security council resolution 1973 – to end gaddafi’s grip on power in libya. having invaded iraq in the name of banishing tyranny and championing democracy, we in the west can hardly leave the job half done in libya; a wounded gaddafi being allowed to stay in power would be a disaster as he would plot revenge against his own people and also western targets. in this context, i also call on algeria to cease helping the tripoli regime with supplies and free passage for mercenaries. in yemen, the uncertainty about the succession to president ali abdullah saleh risks emboldening the al-qa’ida terrorists in the country. he is now part of the problem and not the solution and he should stay in saudi arabia and sign the gcc-brokered agreement and pave the way for free elections and a successor. the situation in bahrain is also worrying, and i hope that the sunni monarchy makes reformist concessions towards the opposition, mainly from the bahraini shia majority. in syria, president bashar seeks to brutally crush all resistance to his autocratic ba’athist rule. we cannot forget the principled stand by courageous unarmed protesters calling for a democratic post-bashar syria free of the malevolent influence of iran and its support for hezbollah and hamas. the arrest and torture of children is particularly sickening in syria and, although i too am concerned by reports of salafist jihadi groups now joining the protesters, this cannot be used by the regime as an excuse to murder innocent protesters. i particularly fear now for the christians and the iraqi refugees on that territory. i also welcome the constitutional reforms in morocco to diminish the king’s powers, but hope the situation in western sahara can also be settled peacefully with the referendum for independence. i welcome this week the independence of south sudan, and hope that khartoum, also a member of the arab league, will not try to destabilise africa’s newest nation, which needs all the help it can get from the european union. lastly, i thank the high representative and her staff for all their good work and commitment to supporting the arab spring and stabilising the eu southern neighbourhood.
i should like to welcome a delegation from the chamber of deputies of brazil, led by mr carlos alberto leréia, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs and national defence, who have taken their seats in the gallery. (applause) (banners were displayed in the gallery)
i think that if anyone has any information which might help the european parliament to establish who was responsible for their entry, that is a very useful suggestion. perhaps you would like to communicate with the president’s office. i am going to continue. they are attending the first european parliament-brazil interparliamentary meeting, which is a faithful reflection of the regular structured dialogue between members of the european parliament and the brazilian national congress, as foreseen in the joint action plan of the eu-brazil strategic partnership. it will also provide a parliamentary forum for debating the state of play and prospects for the negotiations of the eu-mercosur association agreement, with a view to guaranteeing the balanced and far-reaching nature of such an agreement. you are very welcome.
we now continue with the debate on the situation in the arab world and north africa, syria and yemen.
mr president, the so-called arab spring filled many of us with hope and we are pleased to see the fall of some of these disgraceful regimes. however, democracy is not coming to all arab nations just yet, with the situation in the lebanon being particularly worrying. hezbollah, officially categorised as a terrorist organisation, is now controlling the lebanese government. every city in israel is now within range of hezbollah rockets stationed in lebanon. there are believed to be 15 000 such rockets. a un tribunal has recently issued indictments charging four individuals, reported to be members of hezbollah, with the murder of lebanese prime minister hariri and 22 others in 2005. hezbollah provides military training to hamas, another terrorist group and one that has been blacklisted by the eu since 2003. hezbollah is supported by syria and iran. the iranian revolutionary guard funds hezbollah to the tune of usd 0.5 billion per year. baroness ashton, this is my question. given that lebanon is also a major recipient of eu funding, currently receiving over eur 200 million per year, could you please explain to me the type of relationship that you envisage between the eu external action service and the hezbollah-led government of the lebanon?
mr president, i am concerned that we might be drawn into yet more conflicts in north africa and the middle east. our involvement in libya was ostensibly to oppose repression and promote democracy, but of course gaddafi was already unpopular with the west for his policy of the gold dinar for trading oil. bashar al-assad, who initially showed great promise, has shown himself to be as violent and repressive as gaddafi. however, neither gaddafi nor al-assad are militant islamists. it would be a great disaster if they were to be replaced by islamists. the yemen is the country to which al-qa’ida has allegedly moved its training operations. i hope that we will not be tempted to engage in another bloody conflict there. we must not see british and other european soldiers lured into so-called peacemaking operations in syria or anywhere else in the region. furthermore, we cannot assume that democracy will flourish in any of the infertile soils of the arab countries.
mr president, a properly negotiated two-state solution to the israel-palestine question would be the greatest catalyst to democracy, economic progress and confidence in the arab world. instead, the proposed unilateral declaration of statehood at the un general assembly by the palestine authority takes us in the opposite direction. it can only create more tension and deepen hostility. will the high representative/vice-president use eu leverage to dissuade the palestine authority from this course of action? by the way, i congratulate the governments of turkey, greece and the republic of cyprus for their robust action in thwarting the second of the so-called ‘peace flotillas’, which was of course just a deliberate provocation to violence. baroness ashton has told us something of what the eu has been doing. i am not sure there is a lot to show for the eur 4 billion being spent since 2007 on democracy and development in the arab world. in regard to libya, the european union has wasted a lot of time and money on its effort to foist an eu military mission on an unwilling international community. this mission never saw the light of day, but cost the taxpayer eur 7 million nonetheless. all this is a distraction from the real effort. what a pity that more european nato members have not contributed to the nato operation unified protector. i am sorry the polish presidency is not with us this afternoon. why is poland not contributing at least one of its three squadrons of f16 strike fighters to this nato action? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, my colleague will know full well that the whole point of that first flotilla was to provoke precisely the response that it got. that is exactly what he wanted. these things are politics by confrontation: he wanted a violent reaction. the blockade of gaza by the israeli authorities was perfectly legal under international law. it is quite wrong to say that humanitarian aid is being denied to the people in gaza. so i am afraid that the whole basis for these flotillas is unfounded. what the honourable member is saying – and indeed where he comes from, and the sort of actions he takes part in – is evidence of the real nature of the design of these particular political actions.
mr president, i welcome the unconditional condemnation of repression made by the high representative, baroness ashton, this afternoon and welcome the commitment, repeated this afternoon by herself and by commissioner füle, of more for more, which aims to make europe an active player in the unanswerable process of democratic transition in the region. in this debate i ask for their response in three areas. firstly, do they agree with amnesty international? the witness testimonies, videos and monitoring reports show systematic crimes of humanity in syria – in excess of those recorded in libya – and that therefore there should be no barrier to european countries seeking full referral of syrian perpetrators to the international criminal court within the un security council. secondly, will they accept that there should be full reference to international humanitarian law (ihl) following the may communication, and support for the eu guidelines on ihl in all of the follow-up actions in countries within the region? we seek to uphold the rule of law. there is no higher law. thirdly, i do not understand why, for the last recorded year, europe exported over eur 250 million of aircraft, military vehicles, small arms and light weapons to libya, how the united kingdom, until at least late last year, sold small arms, ammunition, body armour, assault rifles and tear gas to syria, yemen and bahrain, and why germany and spain appear poised to sell battle tanks to saudi arabia. do they really think this is consistent with the ban on selling weapons which could be used for internal repression? should there not now be a freeze on all arms sales and security cooperation with all of the countries of north africa and the gulf, or is the arab spring really the spring for european machine guns, gunning down the democracy protesters that we say we support?
mr president, tens of thousands of people died in iraq in the quest for democracy following the toppling of saddam hussein, but i fear the current government in baghdad is not providing an ideal role model for the democratic process for other countries in the zone. assassinations, suicide bombings and rocket attacks continue daily. corruption is endemic, the citizens have limited access to drinking water, and electricity supplies are restricted to about six hours a day, while temperatures just now rise to above 50°c. there are few jobs, and there is massive unemployment. the erbil agreement, which was supposed to create a government of national unity, has never been implemented. prime minister nouri al-maliki alone controls the army, security and intelligence services, and such power has been abused repeatedly, most clearly in the massacre of unarmed civilians in ashraf on 8 april. baroness ashton, can i thank you for all the work you have done on ashraf, but please support the resettlement plan proposed by this parliament. time is running out and we must not risk another srebrenica.
mr president, it is quite clear that the arab spring simply would not have unfolded in the way that it did if it were not for the part played by modern technology. i am keen to explore, in terms of the overall programme of packages that we are putting forward, what we are going to do to focus on raising awareness of the role of online activists inside and outside syria, in particular, as the situation there unfolds. there are syrian protestors, and people are ensuring that those voices are being heard. these online activists are connecting anti-government protestors in syria and rallying support for the protest through social media networks and websites. they are using skype to call protestors across the country and social media to stream live images to upload onto youtube. this is particularly important, because they are providing news feeds and video uploads to the media in the absence of foreign journalists inside syria. from a human rights perspective, these activists are subject to aggressive actions by syrian security services, including spamming and hacking into their social media.
mr president, yemen is not a country that often attracts much attention in this house, but its importance in the middle east and for maintaining the stability of that region must not be underestimated. yemen needs support if it is to avoid becoming a failed state. al-qa’ida already has a strong presence there, and there are at least two secessionist movements trying to rip the country apart. if yemen is allowed to fail, then the consequences are dire. not just for yemeni citizens, but for us all. whilst i do not think it is wise for us to lecture other countries on how to run their internal affairs, it is abundantly clear that president saleh has lost the confidence of his people. he has no role in his country’s future and the best thing he could do would be to stand down. baroness ashton, we should support and welcome the efforts of the gulf cooperation council to negotiate a peaceful transition of power to a new interim government. we must do all we can to ensure that yemen does not become a second somalia.
mr president, no doubt members are aware of the horrific campaign of rape by forces loyal to colonel gaddafi during the siege of misrata and elsewhere in libya earlier this year. i want to speak for the hundreds, if not thousands, of women who have suffered this brutalisation and continue to suffer physically and mentally from their assault. eyewitness accounts and reports suggest that the abuse was widespread and systematic. in one refugee camp alone humanitarian workers found over 250 women who would cautiously speak out about their ordeal. this is a truly astonishing figure, given the stigma attached to rape in libyan society. not only do these women have to deal with the trauma of abuse, but they are then compelled into silence for fear of shaming their families. the accounts of those women in libya confirm our worst suspicions about the nature of the gaddafi regime and the true scale of the atrocities he is willing to subject his people to in order to cling to power. the use of children as human shields, snipers that indiscriminately attack civilians and now the use of rape as a weapon of war are tactics of a true despot. they are a powerful reminder to the international community that taking action in libya was the right and the proper thing to do. under the leadership of nato we must remain resolute in our determination to protect and support the libyan people in the pursuit of democracy and bring to justice those responsible for the atrocious crimes being committed against her citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this is a report which is not about saying we support democracy, but how we do it. we support the idea, originally put forward by the socialist and democrat group in this parliament in the human rights report for a european endowment for democracy. we are concerned with proposals from the polish presidency which seem to replicate the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr). i support those. high representative ashton, herself this afternoon argued that a network amongst existing organisations rather than a new heavy-handed or expensive agency is preferable in creating the endowment. if democracy can come from facebook pages and tweets by the young people of north africa, europe itself could use virtual technology to achieve our own aims for democratisation. second, election observation missions really are some of the most successful external actions we as europe make. but we need to understand that we are sometimes blocked where we are most needed, including, i regret to say currently by the military government in egypt. we can do better targeting missions where we can most make a difference as well as in the follow up of the recommendations in the final report in our other country-specific actions. finally, to those who are worried about those who would use democracy to defeat democracy, let us acknowledge that this is a problem in many of our countries. which is why we designed the rules of the eidhr carefully, to allow us not to choose for people of third countries but to directly support reform and opposition movements to ensure that there is a choice to be made. this is difficult territory, but we asked the european external action service and commission to exploit these rules to full effect. let us agree with the axiom, ‘democracy cannot be imported or exported, but it can be supported’.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is a grey area in ethical judgement called cultural relativism. what is revered in one country may be abhorred in another. even within europe there are vast cultural differences. the british would never allow bullfighting, and our laws mean it is illegal to produce foie gras. who are we, therefore, to not only dictate terms of trade but roll out costly projects to tell third countries how to think and behave? the commission evidently fancy themselves as the new un. the eu may talk about democracy promotion, but what about democracy here? the eu ignored the results of five referendums it did not like: the danish vote on maastricht in 1993, the irish vote on nice in 2000, the french and dutch votes on the eu constitution in 2005 and the irish vote on lisbon three years ago. then the eu spends handsome amounts monitoring elections in afghanistan and kosovo, to absolutely no avail. it is sheer hypocrisy and arrogance.
madam president, like others i would like to congratulate veronique de keyser who produced an extremely comprehensive and helpful report. i would also like to address the question of the european endowment for democracy. just to recall, some 20 years ago, after the revolution in central and eastern europe, i founded the eidhr as a mechanism that was not part of the eu, but it was financed by us. it was at arms length and it remained so for about ten years until it was taken in-house by the european commission and then became, for a period, very safe, very bureaucratic and almost totally useless. fortunately, in recent years, under the people who were here present in the chamber, it has improved considerably. but it still cannot do everything that we need to do, especially in the arab world. so many people have mentioned this and i will do so too. so i would ask colleagues to keep the door open to a mechanism which is capable of doing things that eidhr cannot do and should not do. that is why it is so important that there is some sort of compromise tomorrow on this report, on paragraph 35, to encourage the thing to go forward.
mr president, the nagorno-karabakh question is often described as a frozen conflict but this is far from the truth. it is actually thawing very rapidly with an increase in sniper fire at the line of contact, escalating armenian casualties and the possibility now of a full-scale war breaking out, dragging in iran and russia on one side and turkey on the other. this is extremely dangerous. the massive flow of petrodollars is now financing a regional arms race, with baku buying large amounts of big-ticket military items, trebling its defence budget and making increasingly bellicose noises about recapturing nk, and with the much smaller armenia, with russian help, desperately trying to catch up. it is clear to all of those who know the region that stepanakert will never accept direct azeri rule, but of course armenia must withdraw from the surrounding occupied raions and allow all the idps to return. in my view – and i am sorry to contradict mr provera who is a great friend – neither self-determination nor territorial integrity are absolute principles. everybody has to be flexible in foreign policy so we cannot apply them absolutely. i urge the minsk group now, particularly after the failure at kazan, to try to resolve this dispute and to redouble their efforts, particularly with the help of the eu special representative for frozen conflicts. i would say to lady ashton that this is her chance to win a nobel peace prize if she can resolve this one.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this house has had many debates lately on how the union deals with the pressures of migration and borders and we welcome another opportunity to expand the discussion. these discussions are long overdue, and so is reform of the schengen system. providing free movement is no longer the only issue that schengen has to face. twenty-six years has heralded change, growth and unfortunately some new and very big problems. the world is changing, europe is changing, and the union’s response to new challenges needs to change too. events in north africa, increased migration, increased trafficking of drugs and people, unemployment, organised crime and terrorism are all issues that need to be addressed by a new and improved schengen system. i hope that the response which the european union delivers is one that is thoughtful and measured and not just over-speedy or reactionary. the system should be made better and serve the people of europe better. member states need clear and strong support from the agencies of the eu – like frontex, europol and eurojust – and there needs to be a strengthened evaluation mechanism for member states who join the schengen area, including a much greater focus on the prevention of corruption, the combating of organised crime and the establishment of independent judiciaries. we need to seriously consider the benefits of an evaluation mechanism which includes a support regime as well as a sanctions regime. member states need more say regarding their own borders, not less. member states and the european union should be partners, not master and slave. we must listen to member states and listen to the needs of european citizens. whilst doing so, we must always protect fundamental rights and freedoms. only then will we be able to build faith and longevity once again into the schengen system.
madam president, at the outset, the commissioner started to say the positive things we wanted to hear, but the pre-emptive strike contained in this resolution is here for a reason. the reason is that we, in wanting to convince the people of the value of schengen – the genuine value of schengen, the economic value of schengen, the social value of schengen – have to make that case. but we have to do that from this parliament, not on the sidelines of consultation but in the centre of the situation, with codecision. so, first of all, regarding article 77, this is something we ask for and we expect to see from the commission in the autumn. the socialists and democrats are clear that we will work and vote with colleagues across this house who believe in the value of schengen. our group is saying very clearly that manipulation of schengen comes at the greatest social and economic cost. to the council, we say that the flexibility already exists for member states to alter the schengen rules. it already exists, so we want a mechanism which provides safeguards and makes the member states think twice if they want to abuse the rules that they themselves have put together. we say clearly that we will oppose any new schengen mechanism that has any other objective than enhancing freedom of movement and reinforcing eu governance of the schengen area. we say to the commission: do your job as guardian of the treaties and provide the clear oversight which will make those member states think twice about inflicting damage on a key freedom that our citizens enjoy. the bigger picture is vital. there is a problem with the external border. not since tampere have we made rules on asylum and immigration, a fact that is now putting schengen and the schengen area under pressure. that is happening; it happened in italy and france. but what is at stake here, if the commission does not get it right, is that you will irretrievably damage the schengen area, which would then irretrievably damage one of the most positive and tangible benefits of the european union. our group will take the higher ground with all other colleagues in this chamber and remain firm in the defence of schengen.
mr president, i rise on a – i am not sure under what rule really, but merely on a point of information to welcome you to the chair, for what i believe is your first session as vice-president of parliament, and wish you all the very best in that role. (applause)
mr president, the former british prime minister, harold macmillan, was once asked by a journalist what he, as a politician, feared the most. he replied ‘events, dear boy, events’. he was one hundred per cent right. events are what is overwhelming the foundations of the supposed european superstate. it is said that the schengen agreement is one of the great achievements of the eu commission. what we are all witnessing is the unravelling of schengen. when nation states believe that their national interests and those of their own citizens are threatened, they simply throw out eu solidarity – understandably so, and rightly so. that is what denmark – and let us not forget france – is doing now, and there will soon be others. it is not just schengen. we are also witnessing the falling apart of the euro zone. i can mention the euro zone in this debate because schengen, the euro zone and the euro are linked. the common threat is the inadequacy of those running the eu. if the german mep would care to listen, he might learn something. if he wants to talk, he should do it outside the house. it is the nation states who are the best able to govern themselves. the eu nomenclatura have demonstrated that they are congenitally unfit to do so.
colleagues, by special request of the earl of dartmouth, i am asked to request the honourable colleagues in the second row facing me not to interrupt him while he is speaking. i am most grateful to you for your attention.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the approach of the european parliament to implementing articles 9 and 10 of protocol 1 of the lisbon treaty on parliamentary cooperation in the field of cfsp/csdp. may i remind honourable members that there will be no catch-the-eye in this debate, which is limited to one round of speakers from the groups, and one non-attached member.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is splendid to see you in the chair and it all seems to be going quite well so far, congratulations. the liberal group wants full and swift implementation of all aspects of the treaty of lisbon. we want parliaments to foster the development of a common foreign security and defence policy. this means genuine collaboration between parliaments, not trying to unpick the integrated policy-making process which the treaty of lisbon so carefully constructed. we need time to allow the external action service and the new policy approach to produce results at executive level. in time, parliamentary solutions will be found that are acceptable to both levels of parliament, including the british parliament, where some members still seem to be in denial about the reality of the treaty of lisbon.
the debate is closed. i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2011. before i declare the sitting closed, i would just like to thank the colleagues who are here for their courtesy to me in my debut in the chair. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i first of all say this has been, and probably will continue to be, an extremely important scheme. i think it has helped many people throughout europe on many occasions; but just because something has been achieved in one way in the past does not mean you cannot change it for the future. i think the cap has a responsibility to produce the food. that does not necessarily mean they are the right people to distribute that aid. i think that is the question that has to be answered here. we live in a time when everybody talks about the same thing: food security, food security, food security. when i came to this parliament we had beef mountains, butter mountains, milk lakes – this is all gone. there is no food security anymore. now we have the challenge of ensuring that we are able to feed the world, able to feed the people of europe. i think that is the challenge that is before us. that is what the cap has got to do. food waste is a terrible thing, and i think we can do an awful lot to bring it under control.
rapporteur. − madam president, first i will summarise the principal parts of the reform package that was agreed so strongly at the committee stage. we want to bring forward a polling day from june to may to allow for the more speedy election of the commission. we are going to create a modern supranational regime for privileges and immunities. we will initiate a dialogue with the council on the reapportionment of seats, according, i hope, to a mathematical formula that we will need to agree on. we invite the commission to come forward with new proposals to facilitate the participation of citizens, wherever they may live, in elections. the key proposal, and the one that has created a degree of controversy, is to have 25 members of parliament for a pan-european constituency, elected from transnational lists drawn up by the european political parties. the purpose of this is to transform the european elections by giving the political parties a central role in campaigning by dramatising and personalising the european dimension of the campaign. it is certainly possible that mr barroso’s successor as president of the commission could be found on a transnational list. the time has come to galvanise european political parties. this is a time when many, perhaps most, national parties are neither willing nor able to sustain european integration in a democratic and efficient manner. people tell me that this is not the time for such a radical proposal. well, when it is ever a good time to do anything in politics? when the popular legitimacy of the parliament is in doubt is a good time to act. when we are installing an economic governance is a good time to give european democracy a greater profile and a boost. frankly i doubt whether the demonstrators in syntagma square would complain at being offered the choice to vote for two political lists: the national and the european. some people are also concerned about the necessary change to primary law. but the fact is that small treaty changes are needed to bring in the croatian members and to rectify the situation where the present composition is in breach of the treaty principle of digressive proportionality. one other complaint, if i might. a criticism that this will create two classes of member: super ‘eurostar’ meps and other, inferior members elected from national lists. but the treaty says we are representatives of the union’s citizens and we need to provide that essential degree of electoral reform to transpose the lisbon treaty in line with political and democratic reality. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i would like to suggest to mr duff that the reason the vote on his report has been postponed is that his group, the epp, and the socialists are hopelessly split. the other groups are, shall we say, less enthusiastic. it is quite clear that there is not a majority in favour of a transnational list and a pan-european constituency. would he not do better just to drop that proposal and to allow the other, more modest, parts of his report to continue?
madam president, mr fox has a different appreciation of the state of opinion in our groups. it is certainly true that, if you touch on electroral reform, members find this a sensitive and indeed uncomfortable question. the committee ought to hear the anxieties and questions that have been put in the groups to see if we can modify the proposal and improve it to grow the size of the consensus behind it. but i state very clearly that the rapporteur is going to stick to the principle of transnational lists.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the central proposal of the duff report is the creation of an extra 25 meps to be elected by the whole of europe. i believe that creating a new constituency, covering the whole of the eu, is democratically flawed. i ask mr duff, to whom will these 25 new meps be accountable? certainly not the people. these new meps will be accountable only to the european political party that placed them on the list. they will speak on the party’s behalf and answer only to the party hierarchy, not the people. far from bringing europe closer to its citizens, this proposal will further increase the divide between the ordinary citizen and the politics in brussels and strasbourg. an additional 25 meps, representing the whole of the eu, will also be expensive, both in money terms and in carbon dioxide consumed. at a time when the eu is seeking to reduce its carbon footprint, do we really need another 25 pan-european meps travelling across the whole of their new huge constituency? this proposal also places an extra burden on taxpayers. at a time of austerity, how do we justify spending millions more euros on extra politicians and their staff? mr duff also wants a new electoral authority to oversee the election of these new meps and an electoral roll for the whole of europe. have these proposals been costed? of course they have not. conduct of elections must remain under the control of nation states. the only beneficiaries of these proposals are the european political parties. indeed, i would argue that mr duff wants to create these new meps and an election, simply to give them something to do. the duff report is undemocratic and expensive. it erodes the sovereignty of the nation-states and my group will oppose it. (the speaker agreed to take three blue-card questions under rule 149(8) by nicole sinclaire, olle schmidt and rainer wieland)
mr fox, i concur with virtually everything you said, but would you also agree with me that the commission’s mentioning there could be some form of european office to coordinate these elections and a single electoral role for the whole of the european union is obviously a dangerous move towards a federal european state? as your party is the senior party in the united kingdom government, can you confirm that your party will block that move in the council at every opportunity?
madam president, in answer to ms sinclaire i say unequivocally ‘yes’. the conservative party will block that proposal. to mr schmidt, you need a system where you can get rid of an mp that you do not like. for example, i can be deselected by my party or i can be removed by the electorate of the south west of england. that will not exist in this system. to mr wieland, i do not think that ordinary citizens have any interest whatsoever in this proposal. it is totally disconnected from their ordinary concerns. it is up to each nation state to determine the method of election of their representatives in this parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the most fascinating bit of this report is the excellent graph which shows the decline in turnout in european elections from just over 60% to now just over 40%. what a splendid achievement this has been. the peoples of europe have shown clearly what they think of this great project: they do not like it. what is the response? instead of wondering whether a lot less europe might appeal to the people of europe, mr duff proposes lots more europe: an expensive and pointless addition of 25 extra meps occupying so-called ‘super seats’. why would anyone in europe want these? the southern end of europe and ireland are discovering, through the imposition of real hardship, real poverty and onerous austerity measures, just how wonderful europe isn’t. the euro has been for them, and thus for the rest of europe, an unmitigated disaster. a vast tide of economic migrants is starting to overwhelm especially the more prosperous northern countries. inevitably, as a direct consequence, nation states are reaching for a veritable array of borders, customs and immigration checks. the great eu temple totters on its foundations, and just at this moment mr duff decides that he wants more europe. i am stopping here with 15 seconds to go, because i want less europe.
madam president, never mind the quality, feel the width. this proposal will not add anything to the quality of european democracy. you are just kidding yourselves. it will further remove the citizens from its politicians. everything about this proposal is wrong. there is a suggestion of gender and ethnic-based quotas. quotas are wrong. positive discrimination is wrong – it creates victims. has mr duff even considered the cost of implementing this proposal? i suspect not. apparently the taxpayer has deep pockets. this proposal is open to abuse. one british party, ukip, is currently boasting that it can take cash for a pan-european party to spend on its own domestic agenda. to use the rapporteur’s name as an adjective, this is truly a duff proposal.
madam president, this really is a triumph of bad timing and insensitivity. at a time when european citizens are questioning in ever increasing numbers the effectiveness, relevance and, above all, the cost of the european union, we are bringing forward proposals for an expensive extra level of pseudo-democracy. i strongly oppose such a proposal and see it as a perfect example of the increasing disconnect between some members of this house and their electorate. before members vote for more meps, perhaps they should study the trends in opinion polls across europe. these show rapidly declining support for the european project, and most particularly for this parliament. if we want to reverse this trend we must find ways of reflecting the views of the citizens, challenging the commission to bring forward relevant initiatives and demonstrating added value to member states. it is not the case that we conservatives do not have dreams. we do. we dream of a progressive europe. it is just that those dreams lead us in a completely different direction. however, they are just as valid and, if you keep on in the direction that you are talking about, you are merely going to assist us in that task.
madam president, is it not strange that at the same time that his leader nick clegg is pursuing a reduction in representation at westminster, we have mr duff’s proposal for another 25 meps in this place? consistency and lib-dem policy, as demonstrated in tuition fees and now this, remain alien to each other. on his website, mr duff states that, so far, national politicians have been rather bad at connecting citizens with the eu. the irony in this statement is that, if mr duff asked the electorate of the uk whether they wanted more mps elected on a pan-european basis, they would say ‘no’. there is no connection with the eu, because the eu is like a parallel universe. while national governments cut public spending, the eu demands more. when business asks for less red tape, the eu adds more. it is for reasons such as this that there is no connection and no affinity with the eu. until the eu actually recognises that government for government’s sake is a bad thing, and that better government comes from national parliaments, the electorate will remain detached from the eu. twenty-five pan-euro-mps will only cause further disenchantment, cost more money and become completely removed from a constituency base.
the word ‘democracy’ means government by the people – ‘people’ being a singular noun referring to a self-identifying whole. it does not mean government by an arbitrary collection of persons. an arbitrary collection of persons cannot exercise democratic power, because a common identity is a prerequisite for democratic cooperation. a trans-european constituency covering 27 countries is not a self-identifying whole. the rapporteur clearly believes that it might lead to the development of such an identity, but that identity is a prerequisite for, and not a consequence of, an electoral process. only european political parties will be eligible to contest these seats, and national parties will be excluded. how long will it be before it is proposed that the proportion of seats elected in this way should be raised to a quarter or half of parliament? democracy is not government of the eurocrats by the eurocrats and for the eurocrats.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to express my gratitude to all those who have been here, and especially to all those who have stayed for an engaging political debate about the nature of european democracy. it is a timely and important question. i would like to say, very briefly, that the proposed pan-european members will be extremely accountable to european public opinion, especially to that category of the electorate that is tired and frustrated by the narrowness of national politics. it is desirable to refer the proposal back to the committee for further but expeditious consideration so that we can broaden the negotiating mandate for parliament as it goes into dialogue with the council and commission, and also to enlarge the bipartisan pro-european consensus in the plenary.
rapporteur. − madam president, i have to say first of all that it is a disappointment that there has not been time for a full debate in plenary of this important matter. it has widespread support from all political groups, and i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. when many of us set out in the 1990s to bring an end to the use of anti-personnel landmines, we were conscious of the fact that thousands of lives were being lost through them every year and that the lives of thousands more victims were blighted by injury. our armed forces had agreed that anti-personnel landmines were no longer an essential element in their armouries. there was an enormous international mobilisation of political will and the resources of governments and ngos to overcome a scourge that not only costs lives but obstructed development in so many of the poorest countries recovering from armed conflict. many of us who contributed to the ottawa declaration and were involved in the sponsorship of the original ‘mine actions’ entertained the hope that this great problem could be overcome in a finite period. we have to ask why this has not been the case – although there has been enormous progress. fourteen years on, more than 90 countries are still afflicted by anti-personnel landmines and other explosive remnants of war to some degree. still there are casualties, and still huge resources are being spent on mine action. we therefore thought it appropriate to draw attention once more to the issue, particularly since the european union institutions are heavily involved in mine action. i pay tribute to the role of the commission in this, being one of the leading contributors – along with many member states, the united states, canada and others. our focus throughout the report has been on anti-personnel landmines, while recognising that explosive remnants of war may include cluster munitions as well as other munitions. in drawing up the report i was very conscious that the western democracies are on the side of the angels. we try to help. our motives are good, and nothing is served by unnecessary self-flagellation: the research underpinning the report reflects this. instead we highlight those governments – burma and libya, for example – that have recently laid anti-personnel landmines, and insurgent groups such as the farc, which are continuing to produce their own devices, and other terrorists and insurgents that have made increasing use of improvised explosive devices, which are a threat not just to our armed forces on operations but to the local civilian population as well. our attention therefore needs to focus on those whose actions continue to impact on innocent civilians going about their everyday lives. we consulted widely in this report. we held a seminar in january, which was attended by the international campaign to ban landmines, the geneva centre for international humanitarian demining, the international committee for the red cross, the slovenian-based international trust fund for demining, halo trust and the external action service, and we have also had written contributions from many others. one outcome of the seminar was unanimous agreement that the commission should revert to a single budget line for mine action. but given the difficulties that we are facing today – the economic difficulties in so many of our countries – a key message of the report is for a more focused approach to mine action, prioritising those states which are most in need of help while encouraging afflicted states that can afford it to commit more of their own resources to combating the scourge of anti-personnel landmines. many countries, such as angola, rely too heavily on international financial assistance and could make a greater national contribution themselves, and there are other states, such as bosnia, where conflict is over but where there is a massive residue of explosive remnants that is holding back economic progress. such countries should make greater use of their own armed forces for mine action, training units specifically for humanitarian demining tasks. in conclusion, i reiterate our belief that, through better international coordination and prioritisation, improved management, survey and demining practices, better reporting and more astute and better use of funds, a world free of the anti-personnel landmine threat to life, livelihood and economic development is a realistic possibility within a finite period.
rapporteur. − mr president, the alde group, the ppe group, the s&d group and the greens/efa group propose that we refer the report back to the committee for further informed and expedient consideration. (applause)
mr president, perhaps the saddest line in all of european literature is goethe’s observation that, in the end, we are all king lear. we do not even have the consolation of thinking that lear was mad and unaware of the wretchedness of his circumstances – that line of terrible pathos where he admits that, ‘to deal plainly, i fear i am not in my perfect mind’. there is one ageing entity which is not meeting its end with dignity, and that is the european union. it is a mere 55 years old and it has become not only arthritic and irascible but is becoming, like the poor mad king, increasingly detached from reality. we saw it in the extraordinary press conference yesterday, where the president of the commission and the president of the council started blaming the crisis of the euro not on the intrinsic flaws of the single currency but on american rating agencies, as though somebody coming up with a better set of figures would solve the problem for them. it was impossible not to think of lear on the heath: ‘i will do such things – what they are, yet i know not: but they shall be the terrors of the earth’. the time has come, i think, for us to pronounce the verdict on the european union, at age 55, as was pronounced on that poor unhappy king: ‘vex not his ghost: o, let him pass! he hates him much that would upon the rack of this tough world stretch him out longer’.
mr president, we are debating the role of democratisation in the european union’s external policies, but just imagine, for the sake of argument, that it was the other round. imagine that there was a delegation coming here from cuba, from iran or from syria and reporting on the state of democracy in the european union. what would they find? they would see that, uniquely, we concentrate power in an unelected executive of 27 appointed commissioners, who also bizarrely have substantive legislative powers. they would see that we have a rubber-stamp parliament. they would see we have a court which repeatedly rules on the basis of what it thinks the law ought to say, rather than what the law in fact says. they would see that we are ready to swat aside referendum results and to treat public opinion as an obstacle to overcome, rather than as a reason to change direction. but before going any further, i would refer colleagues to the gospel of st luke, chapter 41: ‘and why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own?’
mr president, british conservatives always abstain on schengen issues because we are not members. although we are disinterested, however, we are not uninterested in the future of the accord. there have been two great pillars of european integration in the decade and a bit that i have been serving here: the single currency and the free movement of peoples. you do not need me to elaborate on the crisis in the former. as for schengen and the border-free zone, we can see that, too, beginning to fall apart as denmark unilaterally imposes border controls, as the italian and french governments reject the core principle, as the netherlands begins to talk of deporting eastern european workers and so on. believe me when i say that no one in the united kingdom can take any pleasure in the failure of these policies in countries which are our friends, our allies, our suppliers and our customers. it is in our interest to have a stable and prosperous union of countries on our border. therefore, more in hope than in expectation, let me offer the suggestion that, if you want to salvage something from european cooperation, it is better to work with the grain of democratic nation states than to try and impose centrally, by bureaucratic fiat, policies that harmonise and make uniform.
in writing. − i welcome this report to designate 2012 as european year for active ageing. population ageing is one of the eu’s most important challenges but also one of the biggest opportunities. the rise in life expectancy linked to ageing is certainly an extraordinary social achievement and a success of our time. europeans today are living longer and healthier lives than ever before, which is a positive and encouraging development. however, this success also confronts european society with a number of challenges, in particular in the area of employment and social protection. to illustrate this, eurostat’s demographic projections expect a decrease of about 6.8% (20.8 million) in people of working age in 2030. thus, only two people of working age (15-64) will have to support one retired person (over 65), compared to a ratio of four to one today. the eu will therefore experience a steep increase in the share of older people and a large decline in the share of population aged below 50, which may, in turn, increase pressure on public budgets and pension systems, as well as on the social and care provision for older people. in addition, old age is often associated with illness and dependency.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which among other things expresses its concern at the presence of foreign troops under the gcc banner in bahrain; reiterates its call on the gcc to contribute resources as a regional collective player in order to act constructively and mediate in the interest of peaceful reforms in bahrain; supports the democratic transition process in egypt and tunisia, as the first examples of the current process of democratisation and new wave of participation by citizens, and notably youth, in the arab world; strongly supports the aspirations of people for freedom, human rights and democracy; calls for a transparent, fair and free election process in both countries that takes into account their individual circumstances; calls on the international community to make further efforts to sustain and encourage the process of political reform in the countries of north africa and the middle east.
in writing. − i voted for this report and agree with its conclusion that only democracies based on the rule of law can function as a foundation for balanced structural partnerships between third countries and the eu that are also in keeping with the needs and interests of both parties and their respective populations. in it parliament stresses that partnerships based on dialogue and consultation enhance ownership of democracy-building processes and elements of democratic governance; calls on all eu institutions to make greater efforts to use these dialogues in a more coherent, consistent and coordinated manner; considers that the eu’s role as a ‘soft power’ in the international system can only be consolidated if protection of human rights constitutes a real priority for it in its policy towards third countries; points out that it is essential, if the eu is to have a credible, consistent foreign policy and support the development of democracy, that an exemplary policy of respect for human rights and democracy is always pursued within the eu and its member states, both now and in the future; considers that combating poverty and removing obstacles to countries’ development can make a decisive contribution to democratic processes.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution in which the european parliament reaffirms its concerns regarding the difficulties faced by the political parties in registering for elections, which effectively constrain political competition in russia, reduce the choice available to its electorate and show that there are still real obstacles to political pluralism in the country.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which stresses that free movement of people within the schengen area has been one of the biggest achievements of european integration, that schengen has a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of eu citizens, both by making border crossing convenient and by boosting the economy, and that freedom of movement is a fundamental right and a pillar of eu citizenship.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which expresses parliament’s conviction that strengthened interparliamentary cooperation in the area of cfsp and csdp would reinforce parliamentary influence over the political choices made by the eu and its states, owing to the european parliament’s responsibilities for the common policies of the union, including the cfsp/csdp, and to the prerogatives each national parliament enjoys in national security and defence policy decisions.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which stresses that the right to food is a basic and fundamental human right and is achieved when all people, at all times, have physical and economically-feasible access to suitable, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and preferences for an active and healthy life; points out that poor nutrition has a negative influence on health.
in writing. − i voted to send this report back to committee in order to allow more time to find a consensus.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which applauds the progress that has been made in mine action over the past decade but emphasises that efforts need to be refocused and intensified if the apl threat is to be eliminated within a finite period.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the democratic republic of congo, mass rape in south kivu province see minutes..
author. − madam president, the democratic republic of congo is something of a misnomer, as it is certainly not democratic, nor is it really a functioning republic. if it was, we could perhaps hope to see the government take action to prevent the mass rape of women and to prosecute those responsible for that heinous crime. but in reality the government has little authority over vast swathes of this anarchic country. the latest mass rapes in south kivu province are another sorry chapter in the violent and troubled history of the drc, which is verging on being a failed state. those crimes were allegedly committed by former rebels who had been integrated into the national army but then deserted. perhaps the most frustrating aspect of this appalling case is that the perpetrators are unlikely ever to be brought to justice. nevertheless, that should not stop us trying, as impunity is completely unacceptable in the modern world. having the international criminal court as a body of global jurisprudence for such vile crimes offers us at least some glimmer of hope for the victims of this savagery to see some justice – victims to whom we say today that we in this parliament will not ignore what has happened to you.
madam president, i will be very brief. these mass rapes have gone on for decades. therefore we need to take vital action. it is vital that we support the ngos which are bringing aid to the victims, and particularly the hospitals. however, can i please ask the commission to bring forward a legislative proposal similar to the dodd-frank act in the united states, which imposes reporting requirements on conflict materials in manufacturing? that way, those who profit from such atrocities will be held accountable. the arguments are there. it is no use saying that the member states do not want to do it: it is up to us and the commission to lead.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on indonesia, including attacks on minorities see minutes..
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the attacks on members of the ahmadi christian community in indonesia are symptomatic of a worrying trend in many muslim societies, even those like indonesia that are considered relatively enlightened under their system of pancasila. ahmadis, who, having been expelled from pakistan now happen to have their global headquarters in london, my constituency, are considered apostates by mainstream sunni islam. the penalty for apostasy under sharia is the death penalty. thankfully indonesia, whose functioning democracy has made great strides in recent years, does not widely practise sharia law accept in aceh. however, the government needs to do more to promote tolerance and protect religious freedom across this vast and geographically fragmented country. in particular indonesia’s political leaders should no longer turn a blind eye to those who seek to sow hatred and violence through exacerbated religious tensions and differences, and they must criminally prosecute all those who are carrying out such atrocities against minorities. as well as lifting the ban on ahmadis, the government should revise all decrees and the blasphemy laws, which are used effectively to prevent christians and others from building new places of worship. we in europe expect such high standards of indonesia precisely because it is a pluralist democracy.
madam president, it is important to remember that indonesia is a very good friend of the european union and has made great strides in democracy. i was the chairman of the observer group that monitored the indonesian elections over a period of time, and i have to commend them for their achievements recently. i chaired an inter-faith conference in the european parliament that was sponsored by the indonesian government. it is therefore very regrettable and unfortunate that they do not seem to have acted fast enough in dealing with this intolerant behaviour by some of their people. they need to recognise that what we are saying in this parliament we are saying as friends: we need to be in partnership with indonesia, the world’s largest muslim democracy, to strengthen the democracy institutions of indonesia. so i stress – because this debate will be on the front pages of the indonesian newspapers – that we are talking as friends to strengthen the democratic arm of the indonesian institutions and state.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on india, in particular the death sentence on davinder pal singh see minutes..
author. − madam president, the ecr has no collective view on the death penalty for murder, leaving it to meps to decide individually according to their own conscience. india, as a democratic country, reserves the right to impose death sentences on those convicted of the most heinous capital crimes. we in the ecr agree that the eu has a right to request clarification of the controversial circumstances of the arrest, police custody and apparent confession made by davinder pal singh bhullar, including the issue of his deportation from germany and the fact the conviction was based on a majority decision, leaving some doubt as to whether the conviction is totally safe. india is a democracy with an independent judiciary and by and large has an adequate appellate process. it is also important to note that mr singh bhullar is allegedly linked to the khalistan liberation force, which is committed to carving out an independent sikh state in india by armed force. in the past its followers have allegedly committed many terrorist atrocities and assassinations of high-level political targets. the eu’s position on the death penalty is of course well known in india. however, we also need to understand the enormous internal security pressures facing india, not only from the khalistan armed movement but from the naxalite insurgency and more generally from jihadi terrorism emulating from extremists in pakistan.
author. − madam president, when speaking of the death penalty, two large countries normally spring to mind: china and the united states of america. judicial executions are cruelly common in each, although thankfully increasingly uncommon elsewhere. in india, with whose people europeans share many values, the supreme court ruled nearly 30 years ago that the death penalty should be imposed only in the rarest of rare cases; in fact it has been used only once in the past 15 years and that was seven years ago. it is therefore deeply disturbing that decisions have been taken to execute the two convicts davinder pal singh and mahendra nath das, especially at a time when moves in the united nations for a moratorium on the death penalty gain more support every year. it seems likely that both men’s alleged confessions were extracted under duress and therefore should not be relied on. mr pal singh’s was made without access to a lawyer and was later retracted. judicial execution, which is a cruel, inhumane and degrading penalty, allows no room for later access to justice should the convicted felons one day be found to be innocent. this house therefore appeals to the people and the president of india, in the name of humanity and of our common commitment to human progress, to commute those sentences.
(replying to róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein under rule 149(8) (blue-card questions)) . – madam president, a reference was made to my speech in which i said the ecr group has no collective view on the death penalty for murder. that is a statement of fact. we always have a free vote in my group for these matters. i would like to make the point that parliament is supposed to reflect the views of the population we represent and, whether you like it or not, a very large number of citizens of the european union still agree with the death penalty for the most heinous capital crimes. i am afraid that is a fact, so i think it is perfectly reasonable that some members do believe in the death penalty for murder.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.35)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, earlier in this session we heard a moving statement about the tenth anniversary of the terrible attack on the world trade centre. the other anniversary is that of the start of the doha round of negotiations towards a trade agreement. i would say that this in fact has killed millions of people – the people in the greatest poverty – or shortened their lives. i think that if we look at the responsibility for that, we see that the wto has not fulfilled its aspirations to meet the millennium development goals. it has failed the less developed countries in its belief in free trade. what we have in this resolution today is recognition that the doha round is dead in the water. it needs to be concluded as swiftly as possible with a package for the less developed countries. we need to concentrate on multilateral agreements because every single bilateral or plurilateral agreement tends to put trade into smaller regional or subregional blocks, and this undermines the multilateral direction which this parliament believes is the right way to go. furthermore, i am very pleased to see that the resolution calls for a reform of the wto, because it is simply no longer fit for purpose. it needs to be revised around the principles of democracy and – bearing in mind that the wto has never taken a single vote on anything, as it is all done by consensus – it needs to have transparency and accountability. our group believes that the wholesale enthusiasm for free trade has ultimately not delivered the promised benefits. we believe that we should be basing wto reform around trade justice and sustainable development, which should be the watchwords as we develop a new trade body for the planet.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is a rather famous book called ‘alice in wonderland’. this book has a slightly less well-known sequel, ‘alice through the looking glass’. in that book there is a passage where the red queen tells alice ‘the rule is jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today’. alice objects that it must happen sometimes that there is ‘jam today’. to which the red queen says – and here i paraphrase – no, there is never jam today. well, that is rather like the eu trade commissioner and the successive doha rounds. we never do get the jam today. there is at least one reason for this. parliament’s own library briefing states that the focus of the doha round was to be on development. for most developing countries, the critical aspect of the doha round is agriculture. around three quarters of the population of most developing countries reside in rural areas and, in consequence, a majority depend on the agricultural sector. the european union’s common agricultural policy, or cap, is equivalent to about usd 80 billion a year, and this huge subsidy is a distorting factor in world food markets. it erodes the fair operation of the market in food, generates export dumping and damages the ability of farmers in the developing world to earn a living. i think that some colleagues who do not agree with me about everything will agree with this. i must further point out that a disproportionate amount of the cap goes on subsidising the growing of sugar beet. this crop, grown in the developed world, can never be fully competitive – without subsidy – with sugar cane. it is the continuance of the cap in its present form which sabotages a proper result from the doha round. what, then, are the prospects for meaningful reform? the answer is that there are too many politicians here in the european parliament who oppose the reform of the cap. it is just not going to happen. no meaningful reform of the cap means no meaningful outcome to the doha round.
madam president, the commission states that one of its priorities is cutting tariffs in order to create new trade flows, but what about non-tariff barriers to trade? quotas are barriers to free trade. the commission sets quotas on fishing, for example. however, when certain member states ignore these quotas, they become barriers to trade for law-abiding communities. import licensing requirements can be barriers to trade. european companies seeking to import from outside the eu may have to comply with licensing requirements as well as pay tariffs set by the commission. some of those imports may be from a third country with which a nation has strong historic and cultural ties. i am sure that many developing nations would benefit from the chance to trade more freely with the united kingdom without being hampered by eu red tape and tariffs. the anti-dumping policies so beloved by the commission can themselves be barriers to free trade where they are cynically used to protect inefficient domestic producers from foreign competitors at the expense of the general public. anti-dumping laws can stifle consumer choice and violate the rights of producers to enter into contracts freely. laws and regulations are necessary. however, i have just given you three examples of how eu legislation actually stifles free trade within our own borders. should a political union that regularly has to bail out its own uncompetitive and bankrupt states really be advising the wto how to stimulate trade in developing nations?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i give my thanks to the rapporteur for the report which i read with great interest. i followed this report as shadow rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and the debate there quite rightly centred around some very specific areas in the report. it is absolutely clear that we need to consider strategies for reducing the use of, and increasing the recycling of, these scarce raw materials, but we also need to make sure that we do not over-complicate the issue. a strategy is a strategy and the title of this report is ‘an effective strategy’. we need to be aware that we could become too prescriptive at this stage. we need to leave our options open whilst agreeing our broad strategy. take, for example, urban mining. this is a great concept. i come from a country with a very long history of landfill, and i am sure there is a great deal in there that we could very usefully use, but we need to be careful. landfill creates greenhouse gases, we all know that; that is why we are trying to avoid it. old landfills are sealed, they can create noxious gases, sometimes poisonous gases, so we must be very careful before we move forward with this strategy, and we must have good and careful impact assessments in place. likewise, the issue of stockpiling, referred to here, must be approached with caution. much of the debate around this subject has centred on the distortions of supply in the market and on speculation – market manipulation. this is all open to debate, but i believe that the last thing we need to do in response to that concern is to talk about stockpiling, because that is a manipulation of the market, and there is absolutely no guarantee – without much further thought and much further examination – that this will take us any further forward . broadly, i welcome the report. i thank the rapporteur once again and i look forward to working together on a raw material strategy as the years go by because this is clearly just the beginning of a long road.
mr president, andrew makinson, a liberal democrat councillor in liverpool, recently used freedom-of-information procedures to reveal details of expenditure incurred by mark dowd, the labour chairman of merseytravel, using that public transport authority’s credit card. now this may have embarrassed mark dowd, but embarrassment is one way of holding office-holders to account. in any case, the labour party is committed to the principle of financial transparency. now, however, councillor dowd has merseytravel taking legal proceedings against andrew makinson, demanding an apology and payment of potentially huge legal expenses. a public body with massive resources is trying to crush one individual who lifted a stone to discover what might lie beneath. this is an abuse of power by councillor dowd. it is the action of a bully. it suggests a desire to cover up the truth and keep the public in the dark. it should be condemned utterly.
mr president, the commission has recently replied to my written question, confirming that commissioners almunia and kroes attended the bilderberg meeting in st moritz in june. the commission cannot give me details of what was discussed, but assures me that the bilderberg meetings do not take decisions. if bilderberg meetings are just talking shops, why do the most important and powerful figures from around the world, including george osborne, the british chancellor of the exchequer, bother to attend? and what other summit of world leaders in politics, finance and business would go completely unreported in the mainstream media, such as the bbc? it is impossible not to reach the conclusion that the non-reporting of these events is anything other than a conspiracy between the organisers and the media. it merely confirms the belief of many that the hidden agenda and purpose of the bilderberg group is to bring about undemocratic world government. it is a disgrace that the european commission is colluding in that.
mr president, it has been well demonstrated that the whole idea of the euro zone – a single currency value for 17 very different economies – is flawed economically. its purpose, of course, has been to facilitate political integration. when the euro zone shows signs of unravelling, the logical remedy would be to unravel it completely. however, the chosen remedy is not less europe, but more europe. the german finance minister, wolfgang schäuble, has said that a new constitutional treaty is required. this has been described by herman van rompuy as the establishment of a united states of europe. the british conservative leader fantasises about having some sovereignty returned to the united kingdom as the price for agreeing to federalism being foisted on the euro zone. such a deal would not only be immoral, it would also be self-defeating in the long term. we would have helped to create a monstrosity to which a future british government could feed the united kingdom.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr masip hidalgo on guiding this report through the legal affairs committee and on the excellent and productive collaboration with the econ committee, particularly on matters of competition in the audit sector. we have worked collaboratively to recognise the specificities of audit in financial services, including communication between auditors and financial supervisors and regulators and the role of audit in systemically important financial institutions (sifis). we have raised the importance of audit committees in corporate governance matters and the conflicts of interest which may occur. the report calls for further analysis of the costs and benefits to the companies who use audit, of compulsory tendering on a regular basis, and of the impact on competition, and costs, of introducing any form of compulsory joint audit. increasing competition in the audit sector and improving audit quality had been the central themes of both committees, and i hope the commission will take this on board when they produce the legislative text.
rapporteur. − madam president, thank you to everyone who has contributed to this report, including colleagues from many committees and industry regulator and environmental organisations. offshore sources account for over 90% of the oil and 60% of the gas produced in the eu and norway. this is the world’s fourth largest production area. offshore is crucial to meeting europe’s energy needs and its energy security. following last year’s tragedy in the gulf of mexico, it has been right to reassess safety regimes. however, much offshore oil development in european seas is off the coast of non-eu countries and it would be unwise if eu legislation pushed exploration out of eu waters into neighbouring areas - especially if a spill could still affect our seas and shores. our approach to safety in eu member states must enable inclusion of neighbouring countries and also recognise that issuing licences is a member state – and not an eu – prerogative. as with many parliament reports, this one contains some clear messages, but some of the statements are contradictory and a couple are factually incorrect. hopefully, we can clarify this in tomorrow’s votes. all sites are different; not all deep water is dangerous and not all shallow water is safe. a ‘tick-box’ approach to safety allowed the gulf of mexico disaster to happen and we must not have the same in europe. the report recommends a site-specific approach, with authorities and operators working together to address the individual risks of each installation, not only before drilling but at every stage of its working life. this must be backed up by rigorous independent oversight and inspections. legislation must not compromise this goal-setting approach or sharing of good practice. safety is not proprietary, and rapid sharing of information and good practices between operators and regulators is vital, especially in the case of significant incidents or near misses. a true safety culture is one that encourages every worker to put safety first in applying, improving and testing safety procedures. whistle-blowers must be protected. inspectors must be qualified and experienced and also understand the specific conditions of each site. i welcome regional fora that bring together regulators from individual sea areas as well as intra-fora and global coordination, as well as the recent work to build more qualified inspection networks across all seas. however, the report points out that creating a new eu super-regulator would not add value. indeed, if it drained experienced resources from national inspectorates it could be damaging. the gulf of mexico disaster was compounded by the length of time it took to cap, contain and clean up. recently there has been substantial investment in capping and cleaning equipment. the european maritime safety agency has experience in monitoring and detecting spills and in the supply of clean-up equipment, so should maintain a log of all public and private equipment enabling its rapid deployment. however, emsa does not have experience in spill prevention nor the expertise to regulate offshore installations. if negligence occurs, those responsible should be held accountable, and operators must be financially liable for costs and damage. they could meet this financial obligation in a number of different ways including, for example, mutual insurance funds which work best in individual sea areas. we know that there is currently not an active market for operators to purchase external insurance. future legislation regarding financial liability should not exclude smaller operators, especially during the exploratory phases. finally, a moratorium on new exploration or a ban in the arctic is not appropriate. arctic exploration started in the 1920s. i repeat my earlier message: every site, every operation, should be assessed for its specific risks, and informed regulators should only allow drilling if they are comfortable that the risks of that site can be, and are being, managed. this should be the case in the arctic, and indeed in every sea area.
in writing. – the committee’s rejection of calls for a moratorium on deep-sea oil and gas exploration was welcomed in the north-east of scotland. the spectre of such a ban first emerged in the aftermath of last year’s disaster in the gulf of mexico; i hope that an overwhelming majority of meps will agree that such a move would be a ‘disproportionate reaction’. none of this is to say that meps – or people in the north-east of scotland – should not take safety matters seriously. this summer’s leak from shell’s gannet installation shows that accidents can happen and that complacency is not an option. as well as oil, the north sea provides thousands of jobs in the fishing and tourism sectors – sectors which are heavily dependent upon a clean environment. scotland’s oil industry remains a vital industry – not solely in terms of scottish jobs but in terms of european energy security too. an estimated 40% of oil and gas reserves remain to be extracted and the north sea sector has a good few decades to go – if policy makers allow it to thrive. political control of the resource must remain at national level.
rapporteur. − madam president, as governments face economic turmoil it is vital we harness existing resources to the maximum, and one of the best resources we possess are companies and businesses which can help create the wealth that is needed in a successful and vibrant economy. however, when we look at small and medium-sized enterprises today, we find they are still mainly run by men, which means that much of the population fails to reach its potential. this report recognises the value of women entrepreneurs in smes and acknowledges that women face many different problems in different member states in attaining their objectives. the report also recognises the contribution women in employment can make both to the local community and to the economy of the eu, and points out clearly that women have the right to choose the role they play within the home or the community they live in. many women have to juggle their own aspirations to succeed alongside their commitment to their family. the aim of the report is to make this choice a reality through practical guidelines and best practice recommendations which member states could adopt if they so wish. eu member states differ in their approach to women looking to run their own businesses and in the support they give these women. whilst researching my report, i found that the difficulties women faced in setting up smes within member states were more or less the same. often they were unaware of the mechanics needed to start a business, they lacked the confidence or were unsure where to seek advice, and found financial institutions unsympathetic to their specific needs. to address these difficulties i proposed a few amendments such as: firstly, to make better use of funding opportunities that are available to female entrepreneurs which allow fair and equal access to finance; secondly, we need to embrace national education concepts for young entrepreneurship in schools, for example, or to encourage female one-year entrepreneurship or apprenticeship programmes in universities; thirdly, we could recognise the importance of female ambassadors as they help promote competitiveness by inspiring women and young girls to set up their own businesses. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution to drafting the report, which i felt strengthened it. we are going to be holding separate votes on paragraphs 34, 44 and 46, which relate to romani women, migrant women and balanced representation on boards. all these topics are very important in their own right, but they are not really relevant in a report that specialises in women and smes, so for this reason i am not going to be supporting these separate votes. as a woman who has been running my own company for 25 years, i know first hand the problems women can encounter when trying to establish a viable sme. i hope that this report will be adopted by the european parliament, and that ultimately member states will be able to use it as a basis for supporting women who wish to move forward in this field, for in spite of all the constraints and restrictions upon them, women have proved to be more than capable in the workplace when starting a business. recognising women’s ability in the workplace, and assisting them through media such as an eu report to strengthen their position, is vital. this will not only encourage women to move into the world of business, but will ensure when they move into it there is an even playing field and there is no room for gender discrimination.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly, i would really like to thank my colleagues and the committee staff for supporting my work on this report on mediation. this report was drawn up to check on how the 27 member states are implementing the 2008 european mediation law and its guidelines. when we drafted this law in 2008, i know that some members were not convinced of the need for a european directive, but i believe that the hearings and consultations we conducted demonstrated that we do need eu-wide guidelines on mediation. i am receiving an increasing number of requests for assistance from my constituents who are involved in cross-border disputes: family disputes over custody, access to children and maintenance payments, property, housing problems, and businesses chasing payments they are owed in another eu member state. going to court is costly; in fact 45% of small businesses said they would not pursue a claim in another eu court if the money owed was less than eur 50 000, because they would end up paying more in costs. what a massive loss for our small businesses across europe. our findings in drawing up this report demonstrated that mediation is a very valuable tool for consumers and businesses. i think that the message to member states today is that they need to do more to promote the benefits of mediation. they should provide more training for mediators and encourage the drawing-up of voluntary codes of conduct. i believe this is the case because best practice in mediation shows that across europe there is a 70% success rate with mediation cases, and in fact this rises to 80% if the parties voluntarily choose mediation. however, still only 1% of parties are taking up mediation in europe. again, the figures speak for themselves: going through the courts took on average an extra 331 to 446 days, involving extra legal costs of between eur 12 000 and eur 13 000 to settle the case. the experience in my own member state is that litigation worth eur 200 000 took 333 days, costing on average eur 51 000, where mediation would have taken a mere 87 days and cost a fraction at eur 9 000. one mediator told me that last year he mediated 115 disputes in the uk. he had solved them within one week, and 30 were cross-border. mediation is therefore a flexible, speedy and cost-effective way to resolve disputes; it allows the parties greater control; it gives them more responsibility in resolving their disputes; and i believe it is especially beneficial in family disputes concerning children, because it can dramatically shorten the period of time required to reach agreement, and this is better for children’s wellbeing and reduces anxiety, conflict and stress in the family. to quote another very convincing case: a dispute over an estate and will worth gbp 10 million, involving four parties, three jurisdictions – the uk, switzerland and france – was solved by a mediator in one day. but by the time they reached mediation, eur 5 million had already been swallowed up by the courts and lawyers across three different states, and it would have taken another two years to try and solve that problem in court. so today i want to encourage the commission and member states to continue to strengthen and implement the eu law and give consumers and businesses an alternative to costly legal disputes. given the number of disputed property cases we have in the eu, i would also like to use today as an opportunity to ask the commission and the member states to make more use of mediation systems to assist our constituents in disputes such as the numerous cases we have in spain and cyprus. establishing a mediation procedure to bring an end to these costly and lengthy disputes will, of course, increase these citizens’ access to justice. to conclude, we are largely satisfied with the work of the member states in implementing this law, even though at the time of drafting only 17 member states had transposed the legislation. and we welcome, commissioner reding, the fact that you are starting infringement proceedings against nine member states. we note that some member states have gone further than the eu guidelines, but we hope that our committee report, based on practitioners’ and users’ views, will provide useful input so that we can better serve our citizens with an affordable and efficient system for access to justice.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to thank mrs reding for her words. it is so good to see parliament doing a report on implementation, especially at this stage in the life of a directive – almost contemporaneous with the moment that it comes into force. i would like to pay tribute to the work that mrs mccarthy has done. parliament has shown itself at its best in looking at what has happened in the various member states and highlighting what needs to be done, and also what has been done well. i have to admit that i was one of those sceptics that mrs mccarthy referred to. i was nervous when a directive was first proposed, because parliament, when looking at the green paper, had said first of all that we did not want legislation because we were concerned that this would threaten the diversity and experimentation which we saw taking place in mediation across the member states. i have to say we have seen, through our workshop and through this report, that nothing could be further from the truth. the directive has done a good job in providing a framework – a framework which allows experimentation and the diversity of approaches to flourish across the member states. it is not a straitjacket, but it does provide sufficient legal certainty. there are problems. clearly not everybody has implemented as they should; some practitioners mutter about problems to do with the confidentiality of the process. however, we should take heart from the fact that mediation is now seen as a method which is much more modern, and more contemporaneous, in providing access to cross-border justice. if one looks back at medieval ways of providing answers to legal disputes – trial by battle, trial by ordeal – traditional justice looks almost as medieval by comparison to mediation, which provides an easier solution, with less stress to the parties and to society as a whole.
madam president, i am in favour of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms being available to the parties in a civil dispute. indeed, i am in favour of incentives with regard to the cost of using them and disincentives for those refusing to use them. however, i am not in favour of the european union passing legislation, even in the form of a directive. it is for member states to decide on procedural law as well as substantive law. i prefer the use of arbitration to mediation. arbitration inevitably leads to a decision, whereas mediation simply might facilitate a negotiated settlement – but if it does not, it will simply add to costs. nevertheless, in matrimonial and custody cases, i believe mediation is suitable, largely because in such cases negotiated settlements are desirable in themselves, as they are more likely to be observed.
rapporteur. − madam president, i want to thank my colleagues for their comments. in response to mr brons, i would just say this: you clearly have no idea of the numbers of cross-border disputes that are eating up your constituents’ savings and time in court. you would rather cling to an anti-european ideology than see your citizens actually benefit from eu guidelines. perhaps i will put you in touch with some uk mediators who will help you understand the value of european guidelines in this area. i would like to say to mrs reding that we look forward to receiving the commission proposal on adr and, of course, your communication on the implementation of the mediation directive. i also want to stress the point mrs wallis made that we need to maintain the diversity and differences between member states, and so i would encourage you in drafting both this communication and the directive to look at and talk to practitioners and users. they know best what works, and they can help us create a very effective and useful legislation which, i believe, will give our citizens better access to justice.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is indeed a massive problem with illegal immigration into europe. the effects of this problem are especially felt in england and in particular in my constituency of london. england attracts immigration – illegal and legal – because of the possibilities for work and our generous benefits and housing sytems. the uk independence party would not be opposed to genuine cooperation between european nation states to counter the problems of illegal immigration – but this proposal is not about genuine cooperation. it seeks to change the legal basis on which frontex operates and gives it more so-called competences. it will, for example, give frontex the ability to cooperate with third-party countries on behalf of the eu. this proposal is yet another way of increasing the power and dominion of the european union over its member states. the proposal is another step in introducing the european union’s common immigration and asylum policy as enshrined in the lisbon treaty. as i will never tire of saying, the lisbon treaty was undemocratically imposed on the peoples of europe without their consent. the lisbon treaty was illegal under existing english constitutional law, and everything that stems from it is therefore illegal in england. there is another problem here, which is the european convention on human rights. british courts are obligated to protect the human rights of foreign nationals in the uk. once in the uk, they only have to claim that their human rights are likely to be at risk in their own country and the courts will not send them home. as a result of this we have given refuge to all kinds of criminals. if i heard him correctly, mr busuttil said that all operations would be suspended while a human rights issue was being considered. this is like baling out a boat with a bucket that has an enormous hole in the bottom. the uk independence party will vote against this proposal.
madam president, frontex is a border control agency that has been prevented from controlling borders. in the explanatory statement from the rapporteur, its function of preventing illegal migration is so understated as to become almost invisible. the need to ‘keep borders open for people who need protection’ and to work hand-in-hand with the european asylum office is stated boldly and confidently, placing that need at the centre of its concerns. this means that those who describe themselves as asylum seekers must be welcomed with open arms regardless of the reality of their status. quite rightly, there is coverage of the need to cut cross-border crime, in which case why have a border-free schengen area? illegal migration, however, is mentioned only in hushed terms. we are told that frontex must respect fundamental rights. if that means that migrants must not be ill-treated, then that is absolutely right. however, what it means in practice is the principle of so-called ‘non-refoulement’, which means that illegal migrants from dangerous countries must not be returned to those countries even if they are not at any particular risk compared with other residents. the logic of that principle is that all of the populations of dangerous countries should be brought to europe. frontex is quite rightly told to rescue illegal migrants in danger. however, once they have been saved they gain asylum status and cannot be returned to the countries from which they come. the words ‘moral’ and ‘blackmail’ come to mind.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the arab spring has once again highlighted the ineffectiveness and the weaknesses of current immigration arrangements across the eu. our response needs to be two-pronged. firstly, we need to radically reform the schengen agreement, not to prevent eu citizens from having free movement across the bloc – something that has generally proven very successful – but so that national governments are able to manage major specific migratory pressures on their borders, if and when necessary. however, we must also realise that, even if we do reform the schengen agreement, the eu’s borders will still not become hermetically sealed. that is why we must also tackle the issue at its source, which means giving frontex the tools and resources that it needs to intercept migrants as they attempt to cross into the eu, and to deal with them appropriately. political pressure should also be put on some of the countries which are particularly responsible – or should i say irresponsible – with regard to migratory flows to the eu. getting this right is in all our interests. my country, the uk, has of course not fully signed up to the schengen agreement yet. many migrants who enter the eu will ultimately want to enter the united kingdom, placing considerable pressures on humanitarian and local public services there and posing a threat to hauliers who pass through. this is an issue that affects all of us, and we should all make an effort to tackle it, but we should do it jointly in a spirit of mutual cooperation, rather than effecting a spirit of confrontation, which we have unfortunately seen develop between member states, and between member states and the commission, in recent months. that must be the way forward: reform, but also full understanding of the pressures which exist presently on our member states.
madam president, the speaker referred to refugees several times in her speech. in the opinion of the speaker, are any of these refugees economic refugees?
in writing. – the creation of a frontex agency is effectively putting the determination of who may or may not enter europe into the hands of the eu. many countries in the eu have been inundated with immigrants, putting pressure on the economy and welfare systems and overcrowding cities and services. once immigrants are granted access to europe they are able to travel between member states. many seek to move on to the uk, which already battles a ballooning population under the strain of recent immigration. at a time of fiscal crisis when austerity measures are essential, it is irrational to flood societies. what is more, the prerogative of who is granted asylum should be the privilege of the domestic government and not be determined by an outside agency. whilst immigration for asylum seekers is something i support, i do not trust the european union to be at the helm of decision-making. in today’s global society immigration may be used as a tactic by other countries. mass immigration can distort social identity and threaten integration. it is a matter that should be handled with care and caution by leaders of nations who recognise and are sensitive to domestic peculiarities.
mrs malmström, you are very reassuring, as always!
colleagues, we are going to resume the session with the explanations of vote, but before we do so i would like to welcome a delegation from the canadian federal parliament and representatives of the mission of canada to the european union who have taken their seats in the diplomatic gallery. the delegation is led by mr david tilson who represents a riding or electoral district in toronto, and the delegation includes mps and senators from quebec and british colombia. the delegation is in strasbourg to meet with counterparts from the delegation for relations with canada on the occasion of the 34th european parliament-canada interparliamentary meeting. yesterday and today the delegation has had the opportunity to hold informal and formal discussions with our members, and tomorrow they will travel on to copenhagen for discussions with the future presidency. i wish the delegation well for the remainder of their stay in the european union. you are very welcome here.
the next item is the explanations of vote. as there are quite a lot, i am going to stick to the minute that speakers are allowed, and then i will cut off the microphone.
mr president, the very definition of insanity is to repeat the same action in the hope of different outcomes. in their response to the recent financial crisis, the eu’s leaders remind me of nothing so much as that scene in the simpsons where homer carries on electrocuting himself by repeatedly trying to snatch back his beer can from some electric cables. the problem of the euro was excessive integration, trying to push countries with different needs into the same currency. so we have responded with more integration: fiscal and economic union. the problem was excessive debt, so we have given them more debt – forcing these loans on to people who cannot pay their existing liabilities. the problem was a bloated state at national level, so we have bloated the state further at european level, shovelling more and more of the medicine into the mouth of the patient who was sickened by it in the first place. in the process, we have sold our future to some pretty unpleasant autocracies around the world. talking of an earlier run on the banks, my countryman jonathan swift wrote: ‘a baited banker thus desponds, from his own hand foresees his fall, they have his soul who have his bonds; 'tis like the writing on the wall.’ i look at who holds europe's bonds now, mr president, and i tremble.
mr president, in my experience within northern ireland, voluntary modulation has been very divisive for farmers. it can be used to take money from farmers and then redistribute it to a small number of farmers with limited selection criteria. we have recently seen this in my region in northern ireland. depending on the scheme put in place, it can also lead to some farmers being put at an unfair competitive disadvantage. many farmers view this system as unfair and would rather voluntary modulation did not exist. direct payments are vitally important for farmers in northern ireland and also for the economy. within the cap post-2013 they should be made very simple to administer and fair to all farmers.
mr president, we began today’s vote with a vote on repealing obsolete directives. the more i think about that, the more i realise how wide the scope of such a report is. think of how much we could be repealing: starting with the common agricultural policy referred to in this report, the wonderful mid-20th century notion that you can manage agriculture through price support and price fixing; or the common fisheries policy, based on the marxist principle of equal access to a common resource; or the wonderful ideas of export credits and regulated working hours; or indeed the idea that the european union can be run by a 27-strong technocracy of unelected officials governing through a series of 5-year plans. look around you and you will see these anachronistic accoutrements of an earlier age, reflecting still the planning and statist assumptions of the eu’s earliest years. the very notion that big is beautiful has gone. if it were true, china would be wealthier than hong kong, indonesia would be wealthier than singapore, france would be wealthier than monaco, and the eu would be wealthier than switzerland. the truth is, my friends, that the project has been overtaken by technological change.
mr president, imagine if a business operated on the model of paying its best customers. such a business, i put it to you, would not be tremendously successful, yet we are rather quaintly pursuing the idea on a pan-continental level through this policy of export credits. well, colleagues, the bad news is that it is not working terribly well. in the mid-1970s the eu as it then stood – or western europe – accounted for 36% of world gdp; today it is 25%; in 2020 it will be 15%. what could we do if we wanted our economy to grow? well, the clue comes from the commission’s own figures. when he was the internal market commissioner, günter verheugen commissioned a study on the cost of complying with eu regulation, and he discovered that across the eu as a whole it came to eur 600 billion a year. yet on the figures of the same european commission, the advantages of the single market are worth eur 120 billion a year. so on the commission’s own figures – and they should know if anybody does – the single market is five times as expensive in compliance costs as it is in benefits. countries do not trade with countries. businesses trade with businesses. the best thing that governments can do for them is to get out of the way.
in writing. − i voted to waive the immunity of hans-peter martin.
in writing. − i voted against the frontex report, because it is nation states and not eu agencies which should control and patrol national borders. frontex is an affront to british freedom. this latest move is simply a power grab by the eu to give frontex more money, personnel, equipment and powers. this vote gives the wrong powers to the wrong people. this proposal is another way of increasing the power and dominion of the european union over its member states.
in writing. − i voted against, because this report aims to create an eu border guard, and is another attempt to create new eu controlled institutions which enlarge the scope of eu competences. although the uk is not in frontex, the uk contributes towards any new eu formation – in this instance part of a budget of eur 88 million in 2011 – money that will allow the agency to purchase cars, helicopters and other border monitoring equipment instead of relying on the member states to police their own. the agency will also appoint an inspector to ensure cases are in line with their stipulations on human rights. it enables the eu to determine who is allowed inside europe, thus controlling immigrants who may then seek forward travel to the uk. matters of citizenship and immigration should remain the privilege of sovereign determination.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the basis that, with 42 672 km of external sea borders and 8 826 km of land borders, the schengen free movement area comprises 25 countries (including three non-eu states) and enables free internal travel for nearly half a billion people across the continent. the abolition of internal borders has facilitated freedom of movement for citizens in an unprecedented manner. but this calls for a coordinated approach in securing external borders. and, whereas external borders remain open and efficient for bona fide travellers and for people who need protection, they must be closed for cross-border crime and for other illicit activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to strengthen the powers and increase the resources that are available to frontex to allow them to better protect the borders of the eu. a larger budget will allow frontex to acquire equipment that will enable the agency to deal with an emergency. the report is clear that frontex will continue to act as a coordinating agency, with the responsibility of day-to-day border controls remaining a responsibility of individual member states. in response to parliament’s concerns about the fundamental rights of immigrants, frontex will appoint a special fundamental rights officer to ensure respect for human rights for immigrants.
in writing. − the system for regulating the export of dual–use items (civil and possible military use) has been unsatisfactory. here, parliament has approved substantial amendments to article 1 of the regulation that aim to oblige the commission and the member states to set up a secure system for the collection, transmission and storage of notifications, and to oblige the commission to inform parliament about the system’s functioning. until now, this system has only been an option, as introduced in the 2009 regulation. the system would be designed to have online access to a database containing, for example, denials of export authorisations. parliament also wants to establish an obligation for the dual-use coordination group to annually report to parliament in order to fulfil its supervisory function where the european commission is concerned. finally, parliament seeks to introduce an obligation on the commission to report on the implementation and application as well as to provide a comprehensive impact assessment of the regulation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on repealing of certain legal acts that have become obsolete. it concerns a number of acts which were adopted over the last decades, have exhausted all their effects, but remain technically in force. they have become obsolete because of their temporary character or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. several measures linked to the accession of new member states provided for transitory measures directly following the time of their accession, and by now have become obsolete. a number of legal acts are repealed with the current proposal, which is based on inter-institutional agreement 2003c321/1 on better law-making. this agreement targets the simplifying and reducing of the volume of legislation (point 35). according to the agreement, legislation will be updated and condensed inter alia through the repeal of acts which are no longer applied and through the codification or recasting of other acts.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution supporting a commission proposal to repeal a number of legal acts, as presented to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposal is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of law-making, and to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses
in writing. − i voted for this report as a straightforward common sense measure.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which – according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission – is a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. − i voted against the galileo programme as an expensive, useless and void eu project which alleges to replace the gps system and, for example, enhance border security, but in fact is an ambitious project which merely seeks to promote the eu brand globally. taxpayers’ money must be spent on more reasonable projects than sending into space eu-labelled satellites, in order to compete with the usa. the purpose of galileo is to further the eu's plans for one military force to which i am totally opposed.
in writing. − i voted against the galileo programme as an expensive and vain eu project which alleges that it makes air travel safer, cuts time spent in traffic jams and enhances border security, but in fact it is an ambitious project which merely seeks to promote the eu brand internationally. taxpayers’ money must be spent on more meaningful projects than sending into space 30 satellites, simply in order to compete with the usa.
in writing. − my group voted against the glante report. there remain concerns relating to privacy and data protection as well as regarding the possible military uses of galileo. accordingly we could not support the report as it currently stands.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the european satellite navigation programme, galileo, provides five services: the open service, the commercial service, the safety-of-life service, the search-and-rescue service and the public regulated service. the proposal under consideration here concerns the public regulated service (prs), which is restricted to government-authorised users for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services). these applications call for a high level of precision and reliability, for which reason the prs uses powerful, encrypted signals. the commission proposal creates a detailed legal framework governing access to the prs and the administration and supervision of users, the aim being to guarantee the security of the system and the protection of information. since certain prs-related applications may be politically and strategically sensitive, and with a view to ensuring the requisite high degree of security, great care needs be taken when establishing this legal framework, which includes a joint, harmonised procedure for user authorisation by the participants.
in writing. − according to oecd estimates, each year an area of original forest covering the size of greece is lost, threatening irreplaceable biodiversity with extinction and increasing the risk of global warming. although it is more than 20 years since the 1st itta was concluded, over-exploitation and illegal logging remain widespread. almost half of all logging activities in regions such as the amazon, congo basin, south-east asia and russia are illegal. the council of the eu and the eu commission support the itta, 2006, which they believe addresses the most pressing issues of the timber industry. the itto will continue its work on issues such as deforestation and illegal logging, but more can be done on strengthening the forest law enforcement, as the abovementioned additional measures adopted by the eu illustrate. in the meantime, i welcome this agreement and am pleased that parliament has given its consent.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report which, under the lisbon treaty, parliament had a role to play in. the agreement promotes the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and promotes the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests.
in writing. − provisions to protect designations of origin and geographical indications are an important part of the eu's work and help encourage quality produce whilst protecting local and national traditions. the extension of these provisions to switzerland is good news for that country and good news for eu nations.
in writing. − i support this report. by adding a new annex (annex 12), the two parties (the eu and switzerland) seek to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origins and protected geographical indications in order to preserve the conditions of bilateral trade in agricultural products while promoting the quality of the food chain.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal that provides for further liberalisation of agricultural trade between norway and the eu. the new preferences will consist of additional full liberalisation for some sensitive products, thus providing that some 60% of agricultural trade between the kingdom of norway and the european union should be completely free. for more sensitive products such as meat, dairy, fruit, vegetable and ornamental plants, tariff quotas or tariff reductions have been agreed upon. specific provisions are foreseen as regards the management of tariff rate quotas for cheese.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal to simplify trade agreements with switzerland and liechtenstein. from now on liechtenstein products are deemed to be of swiss origin.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it reflects yet another example of an eu attempt to grab sovereign prerogatives of the nations in the region of the south pacific. the eu is usurping the right to decide on matters which should remain in the hands of poor communities perfectly capable of managing their fishing and maritime preservation. poorer nations from the south pacific should keep the right to use their fishery resources freely to retain their independence and avoid the risk of massive emigration.
in writing. − i voted against as this as it reflects yet another example of eu encroachment into sovereign prerogatives of the nations in the region. it is also fair to point out that the eu track history with fishing and maritime preservation is not a good one, often usurping waters from poorer nations, over-fishing them, and taking away valuable commodities from struggling communities who depend upon access to their waters to be self sufficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ms fraga's report. fisheries management should primarily be the responsibility of fishing nations, cooperating internationally through conventions such as this one. these conventions are important tools for maintaining sustainable fisheries – and there is no reason why similar tools could not be applied to the waters and resources of europe's fishing nations.
in writing. − i welcome this report. fishing activity in the south pacific has until now been managed by the two regional fisheries management organisations: the inter-american tropical tuna convention and the western and central pacific fisheries commission. since the objective of both, however, is to manage highly migratory species, the fishing of other types of resources in this vast area was unregulated, other than in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of coastal states that applied their own rules. to fill this gap, and given that there is fishing activity both in the eez and in the high seas, in 2006 the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch a process of international consultations on the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation, with the aim of cooperating to address the gap in the management and conservation of non-highly-migratory species and the protection of biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law.
in writing. − i voted against as this as yet another example of an eu attempt to seize control over what should be the prerogative of nation states to act as a subject of law of the treaties. it is up to the uk to decide whether it wishes to sign agreements or not on such important matters as aviation safety with a third territory. any agreements on that issue should be made via bilateral agreements between the uk and the other state concerned.
in writing. − brazil is one of the world’s most important emerging economies and scotland alone exported some gbp 180 million of goods to the country last year. i voted in favour of this report, which will facilitate good links between the eu and brazil.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement to improve and simplify cooperation between brazil and the eu in the field of aviation. eu and brazilian companies will significantly benefit from the application of the agreement thanks to shorter and simpler, hence less costly, product approval procedures and mutual acceptance of certification findings. furthermore, the agreement constitutes a net benefit for the european union, given that it will establish mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states.
in writing. − both norway and iceland are close neighbours of my own country, scotland, and there are strong economic and cultural ties between our countries. strong judicial ties between our countries are important and i accordingly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i had some doubts about this proposal but in the end voted for it. insofar as this agreement merely extends to norway and iceland – at the request of these two countries – provisions that are already in place among eu member states, i see no reason to object. however, i am of the opinion that the european arrest warrant must be the object of an evaluation in order to respond to public concerns on possible abuses or defects of this instrument. in particular, i have concerns that the partial waiver on dual criminality may lead to problems. this waiver, as framed by article 3(4) of the agreement, creates the possibility of arrest and surrender for practices that do not constitute a crime in both countries concerned. a case in point is the possibility of waiving double-verification of criminality concerning ‘facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence’. i am of the opinion that the parties concerned should exercise restraint on such waivers of double-criminality verification, in order to avoid arrests and surrenders for minor offences.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal setting up the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. − i voted for this report which: takes the view that statutory auditing has a social function and is in the public interest, as it is an absolutely fundamental component of the democratic economic and political system and accordingly welcomes the intention of the green paper to increase transparency and improve the quality of audit reports in order to contribute to the stability of the financial market and improve access to financing; is in favour of any measures based on the evidence that costs and burdens to financial institutions, in particular, are outweighed by improving their quality significantly, as well as by regular external evaluation and appropriate regulatory oversight; stresses the need for specific legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which strengthens the rules surrounding independent audits and goes some way to addressing the problem of the oligopoly of the big four.
in writing. − women over 50 are a great asset to society. we do not need the eu to interfere in our national life to enable these ladies to make the most of their potential and abilities. such interference will merely place more burdens on smes already struggling to survive – many of which are run by ladies over 50.
in writing. − women over 50 are a great part of our society and a valuable asset of any enterprise as well as their local community, and it is offending to this demographic to label them as not ambitious, smart or organised enough to continue working or to move back into employment. the obligation for member states to include such women in life-long learning schemes and support flexible retraining programmes should be made on a domestic level and pertain to cultural peculiarities. we can be proud of many working women in the united kingdom, who are not just the cornerstone of society but both vibrant and inspirational to younger generations. we do not require the eu to tell us how to promote such activity in the fight against gender or age discrimination which will indubitably serve as a further bureaucratic burden to businesses and contribute to the sort of wasteful positive discrimination that puts a stranglehold on the workplace. i do not believe that the creation of yet another eu event to designate 2012 as the european year of active ageing, in a time of financial and unemployment crisis, is either responsible or sme-friendly.
in writing. − older women face at least a twofold discrimination in the labour market based on gender and age, combined with their greater vulnerability in the labour market caused by women-specific work trajectories. i welcome this report which suggests measures that might be adopted to tackle this discrimination.
in writing. − i supported this important report and support mediation services and other forms of constructive dispute resolution.
in writing. − securing better access to justice is one of the key objectives of the european union’s policy to establish an area of freedom, security and justice. access to justice should include access to adequate dispute resolution processes for individuals and businesses. the objective of directive 2008/52/ec is to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and by ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. in order to facilitate access to mediation as a viable alternative to the traditional adversarial approach and to ensure that parties having recourse to mediation in the european union benefit from predictable framework legislation, the directive introduces common principles addressing, in particular, aspects of civil procedure. besides predictability, the directive aims to establish a framework that preserves the main advantage of mediation, flexibility; whereas these two requirements should guide member states when drawing up national laws implementing the directive.
in writing. − this proposal brings the system of voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy into line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − most industrialized countries, including all eu member states and most emerging countries have at least one officially supported export credit agency (eca), which is usually an official or quasi-official branch of their government. ecas collectively account for the world’s largest source of official financing for private-sector projects. ecas underwrite large industrial and infrastructure projects in developing countries. ecas facilitate legitimate trade where the private capital market fails. they have a much higher risk-absorbing capacity than private actors, since they do not have to pay taxes and make profit. however, ecas are estimated to support twice the amount of oil, gas and mining projects as do all multilateral development banks together. half of all co2-emission-intensive industrial projects in developing countries have some form of eca support. partly this is because most of these projects are high risk due to their environmental, political, social and cultural impacts, and would not come to life without the support and financial backing of ecas. hence, ecas are strategic development linchpins that play an enormous part in the environmentally-harmful impacts of corporate activity. as government-backed institutions, ecas should and could instead play an important role in promoting the transition to a low carbon economy in coherence with their national government climate commitments.
in writing. − the commission’s communication on a raw materials received sharp criticism from a large number of ngos and individuals working in international development. colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy have acknowledged this and produced a report which is more respectful of other countries as well as the environment. the report rightly states that ‘countries’ resource sovereignty must be respected’, a sentiment which lies at the very heart of my own political philosophy.
in writing. − access to raw materials is vital for europe’s industrial future and the commission is right to have a strategy to ensure good access for european countries. however, the commission should also ensure that eu companies adhere to environmental and social standards in their work abroad so as to further cement good eu relations with resource-rich countries. in this context, the european union should follow the us lead on the dodd-frank bill and require companies to disclose whether they source their resources from conflict regions, and require extractive industries to disclose their payments to foreign governments in order to enhance transparency and ensure good governance. furthermore, in order to make a credible partnership offer to resource-rich countries, the european union should not misuse the tool of development policy for such purposes. this is particularly the case for the general system of trade preferences and the european development fund. instead it should help resource-rich countries to overcome pertinent issues such as information asymmetry when it comes to negotiating raw material and mining contracts, since many governments lack the expertise to properly evaluate the value of their natural resources and consequently find it difficult to strike favourable deals
in writing. − in light of the increasing scarcity of many raw materials and the eu’s increasing dependence on imports of rm, in particular from china, the comission has identified 14 critical rms, which are essential to the future of european industry; especially important for the transformation to a low-carbon and sustainable economy as they are used in high-tech products such as catalysts, batteries or the construction of renewable energies. this report calls for a coherent strategy, with a commission working group, to focus on increasing innovation on rm use, utilising our r&d strengths to discover more ways of recycling and increasing efficiencies in the use of rm, and to look at sustainable extraction of rm.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which aims primarily to set the framework for the medium- and long-term development of fisheries in the black sea region. the report is of great importance, because until now the black sea has lacked coordinated action among all actors in the field of fisheries. institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin. this applies not only to eu member states, but also to all other black sea countries. the black sea is an enclosed basin whose resources are, to some extent, shared among the six black sea states. the area is also of major economic, social and political importance. i believe that fisheries cooperation between the countries in the black sea region will be a considerable step forward in managing preservation and tackling issues effectively in the black sea basin.
in writing. − it is important that, when new member states join the eu, rules are put in place covering their fisheries management. this report seeks to do just that for bulgaria and romania and i was pleased to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − i voted for this report and believe in particular that action must be taken to make it easier for offshore gas and oil workers to blow the whistle on potentially unsafe working arrangements if we are to avoid accidents on offshore rigs.
in writing. − i am pleased with the text we have voted-in today with this report. this report comes too late to save the lives of the 11 workers killed on the transocean platform in the gulf of mexico in 2010, or undo all the environmental damage wrought by the disaster. however with this report we hope we have made a difficult and dangerous business safer and more secure. oil and gas exploration in european waters or elsewhere is not the only answer to solve europe's energy mix but it is vital to securing a diversified energy mix and thousands of british and european jobs. with the amendments i put-down, supported by other groups, which called for protection of workers, especially whistleblowers and trade union representation and independent safety representatives, we have achieved a clear signal that those who put their lives at risk to secure europe's oil and gas supply deserve better protection to avoid the horrible accidents of the all-too-recent past. i am also immensely glad that a harmful moratorium on deep-sea drilling, put forward by the greens, was heavily defeated; this would achieve nothing but heavier dependence on imported oil and put jobs at risk.
in writing. − i am against discrimination, but i voted against this report, as it is yet another attempt to interfere in member states’ right of self-determination. the proposed positive discrimination is offensive to women who are quite capable of achieving positions in their chosen fields based on their own merits and abilities.
in writing. − i am against any kind of discrimination but i voted against this report, as this is yet another attempt to boost the economy of those member states where the unemployment rates are highest, who are already benefiting from different eu programmes. the proposed positive discrimination forcing smes to keep a gender balance is offending for women who due to skills, ambition, motivation and hard work are on the management boards of smes, not because the eu wants to maintain a gender balance. we have to take into account as well the fact that this will create yet another burden for smes.
in writing. − in light of the economic downturn many entrepreneurs and small businesses are struggling to survive, therefore it is more important than ever that we support our entrepreneurs and encourage growth in this sector. i do not believe that mandatory positive discrimination foisted on company boards through legislation, in favour of women employees, is the way forward. in fact i believe this quota system will only serve to undermine the role of women in a business environment. whilst i acknowledge the gender pay gap, the advancement of women in the workforce should be based on individual merit, not on gender. at present there are varying support systems for entrepreneurs, some offering more support than others. in my home constituency of northern ireland we have many examples of women succeeding in business as a result of their own hard work and not as a result of positive discrimination.
in writing. − this report recognises the value of women entrepreneurs in small and medium enterprises, recognises that they face many different problems in achieving their goals in different member states and recognises the contribution women in employment can make, both to the community and to the economy of the eu. it also recognises that, ultimately, women have a right to choose the role they play both within their home and within the community they live in. the aim is to make this choice a reality through practical guidelines and best-practice solutions which the member states may employ.
in writing. − i fully support the measures in this report that encourage participation of women in business, in particular making it easier for women to take advantage of the european progress microfinance facility, which provides micro-loans of up to eur 25 000 to people who do not have access to traditional banking services. this report also advocates an increased use of a wide range of training courses for women and looks at the possibility of further promoting the erasmus for young entrepreneurs scheme. these measures will ensure we do not waste such a pool of talent as women can provide, especially at this time of economic difficulty.
that concludes the explanations of vote. just before closing, i would like to say to the group of young people that has just arrived in the gallery that i am very sorry that the morning session has stopped early because we were going to have a long vote on a report, but it was sent back to committee, so instead of carrying on until 14.00 today we are actually going to stop now. i am very sorry about that because i know you have come a long way, wherever you are from, to the european parliament. you are very welcome here and i am only sorry that there will be nothing for you to see in the chamber, but thank you for making the effort. (the sitting was suspended at 13.25 and resumed at 15.00)
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you commissioner and also the presidency. i have tried – along with my colleagues – to maintain a constructive approach throughout when compiling my report. at the same time, i make no apologies for self-examination on behalf of this house with a verdict of ‘room for improvement’. may i thank my shadows for their equally constructive approach. there are two questions which run throughout the theme of the report i have produced: why do we need to pursue the smart regulation agenda? and why now? the current economic circumstances are dramatically affecting our businesses and as i speak with them i find that alongside all the traditional difficulties and challenges that they have had, they face specific and particular ones today such as raising capital in the current financial situation and recruiting a talented work force from within the eu. we as policy-makers must do our very best to support these engines of the european economy, yet lamentably our current regulatory framework continues to stifle business and entrepreneurs seeking to create jobs and growth in europe. setting up business in europe is actually getting too costly and time consuming. why should it cost four times as much to set up a business in europe as compared to the us, brazil or indeed india? in times of highly mobile capital, fast-pace innovation and ever quickening production cycles, the economic cost of holding up business with such bureaucracy is unsustainable. our maze of regulation directly affects our citizens, a considerable number of whom have lost their jobs during the financial crisis and are now seeking new opportunities for work, and it is hugely important that new businesses are supported and are able to create new employment. more broadly, the flaws of our current legislative approach only raise doubts in the minds of our citizens. as soon as you leave the bubble of brussels most ordinary europeans find it very difficult to understand what the eu is, and when they see the effects of some of what originates here they ask: whose side are you on? with such immediate problems, focus undeniably turns to the short and medium-term; yet even greater challenges await europe in the future. domestically, we face generation-defining problems in the energy sector and managing the environment together with finding a successful growth model for the 21st century. many of the issues affect the very fabric that makes up our society, and we must not divide into extremism or disillusionment but come together to find the solutions. these difficult challenges must be met with the best policy responses built up through evidence and consultation so as to ensure that the public can understand and support the solutions which governments and the european union find. our attention must not only be focused on ourselves here in europe – though the rising competitiveness of our neighbours throughout the world makes it essential. we do all we can to support innovation and growth in our economies. with india and china literally breathing down our necks, it is essential that the eu and the member states take action to create a framework fostering economic competitiveness and promoting growth if we are going to be able to meet this long-term challenge. europe was once the leader in developing ideas and exporting its success across the world. we must remain open for business. we must create a new vision of europe – one which is seen as a most attractive place to come and work and a place of opportunities, not one of difficulties and complications. i am no advocate of the pull-up, the drawbridge europe – much to the contrary. europe must remain open for business. this is why the closing approach to immigration in some of our member states concerns me. having spent much time steering the eu-india free trade agreement (fta) through this house, i despair at the obstacles being put in place in some of our member states. the loss is clearly ours. the approach that we need to adopt is one which needs to be on a joint-approach basis between the commission, parliament and council. i hope you will find much of what is in my report acceptable.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by congratulating all three rapporteurs. all the reports try to explain how we can improve our legislative process. post-lisbon, that is a duty that is incumbent upon all three of our institutions plus national parliaments. eu law – eu legislation – is our product and we all, together, have to get it right. the making of eu law must be done transparently and openly so that our citizens and businesses can easily participate in the process. let me say something about how i imagine the best legislative process. it would start with open consultation and participation possible for all. there would be impact assessment. we would then see a simple understandable citizens’ summary so that everybody can see what is proposed by the legislation. we would then have an amendment process that can be easily followed electronically through all our institutions in the same way, so that our citizens can participate. we would have transparency of the lobbying process, which we are beginning to obtain by our work on the joint register. when we reach final agreement on legislation we have to show exactly what that is. there has been talk of ‘legislative summaries’ but, more importantly, we will need correlation tables or the equivalent to show how the implementation process is working and to make sure that, when our businesses and citizens want to enforce, they are able to do so simply and easily. that is my dream. i hope one day to see the reality.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the conservative party, like the labour party before them, continues to pass large amounts of eu legislation in the uk. while their meps in europe tell the public they want to end needless eu laws, their government continues to heap more of them on british businesses. the fundamental weakness of eu regulation is the assumption that one size fits all. this is not the case. each member state has its own social and economic realities. repeated attempts at harmonisation are making the situation worse, not better. the bottom line is this. do these reports reduce red tape? no, of course not. there is no such thing as better eu regulation; only more eu red tape. these reports are doing a disservice to small and medium-sized businesses up and down britain by pretending that any reform of the eu legislative procedure will take away the burden imposed by the implementation of eu regulation.
mr president, i would prefer for there to be no european legislation at all. let there be no doubt about that. however, a procedural problem is that individual legislators sometimes have difficulty in taking rational, informed decisions. i believe that this difficulty is knowingly, if not deliberately, created and perpetuated. amendments are changed or regrouped at the last possible moment by agreement among the party leaders. individual members of the large party groups are oblivious to these changes and do not need to know of them. they are simply told by their party leaders how to vote. we non-attached members do not enjoy that doubtful privilege, and nor does any large-party mep of independent mind. we, with our assistants, must take all of our decisions ourselves. it is difficult enough to have the amendments 24 hours before the vote. however, we frequently receive regrouped amendments on the day of the vote. what we need is an improvement in the procedure of passing legislation. that would be a necessary, though not of course a sufficient, condition for better legislation to emerge.
mr president, i am going to speak on the hautala/sargentini report. the title is interesting. what is better regulation? it is legislation that is clear, precise and that is understood by all participants. equally, it is legislation that anyone can influence and not just those who have special access and special knowledge. that is why i am pleased to say that the hautala/sargentini report is one that i can so easily pick up and replicate in the revision of the regulation on public access to documents. it is much more balanced than the report on 2008. it is realistic. the main point is that transparency is a fundamental right. it is there within the charter of fundamental rights and it is reinforced by the treaty of lisbon. since lisbon, regulation no 1049/2001 now applies to all the institutions, the bodies and the agencies set up by them, including the european court of justice, the european investment bank, etc. the commission, i believe, has already produced two proposals on my revision. it should now produce a third, and not just maintain the two. it should produce a third based on the work that parliament has already done. indeed, in our amendments of 2008, we ‘lisbonised’ the revision of the regulation. so let us work together. we need common rules on classification; we need precise definitions, as mrs sommer said earlier, on for instance the space to think. if we are to protect the way the institutions function effectively, let us be clear on what the definition is. let us be clear on the definition of a document. i have to say we do not – the parliament in its entirety does not – accept the new concept of a document as proposed in the commission’s previous recasting of regulation no 1049/2001. we do need common rules on classification of documents because, unless there are common rules, we will never have coherence on access. my time is up. i am pleased to be a part of this debate, but let us prove the debate has worth by revising regulation no 1049/2001 in compliance with the hautala/sargentini report.
rapporteur. − mr president, may i thank the commission, the presidency and the council for attending and participating in this debate, and may i thank colleagues for the very well-informed, detailed and constructive debate that we have had here today. it is quite clear in terms of better, smarter regulation that the core theme needs to be about reducing burdens. i recall very clearly president barroso coming to address a gathering of this house in brussels in 2004 and pushing for an agenda to reduce burdens through reducing legislation that currently sits on the books. i cannot recall the exact figure, but he said it ran into many thousands of acts that needed to be repealed and put to one side. commissioner, i am very encouraged to hear you say that you will reach and exceed the targets by 2012. that is why i argue that we should have a particular commissioner who is responsible for coming and reporting to this house and saying how far you have proceeded on this agenda. i want to be able to stand here in 2012 and congratulate you, or whichever colleague that takes on this task, and say ‘very well done’. i had doubts and i told you today that i had those doubts, but you did it and i congratulate you for it. the ‘one-in, one-out’ principle that i have advocated in my report has been the subject of much debate in committee and here today also but, as the commissioner has quite rightly said, when we get this right we do not just have one going out, we have 27 going out. however, that raises a further issue in terms of harmony and uniformity of approach. we do not always get that, and that is why i argue that the ‘gold plating’ issue in national parliaments is something which needs to be addressed, whilst underlining the subsidiarity principles and issues that the presidency has quite rightly picked up on. i finish simply by saying this: there are two colleagues in particular who were present to make their contribution, but they have decided to leave the chamber now. i find it thoroughly irresponsible when europe faces the immense challenges that we are facing today that, rather than advocate that we come together for the betterment of all our nations and all our constituents and citizens, their approach is simply to say we should do nothing.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have only one problem with this otherwise excellent report, which is that it omits any mention of the problem which has generated the highest number of petitions in recent years. this, of course, is the spanish property issue. hundreds of eu citizens from many countries have spent their life savings on dream properties in spain, only to wake up one morning to find an eviction notice on the mat and a bulldozer at the gate. for a decade, spain has refused to deal with this issue. it denies property rights and enforceable contracts to eu citizens; it defies the rule of law; it makes a nonsense of our commitment to human rights. this is a scandal. it shows the impotence not only of the committee on petitions, but of this parliament and indeed of the eu generally to deliver on the promises we make to citizens. mr boştinaru has complained that the commission is not active enough in dealing with these breaches of human rights and in this case that applies too. i call on the commission to get a grip on this action and to insist that the problem is solved, and solved rapidly.
mr president, i welcome this report on the activities of the petitions committee in 2010 and i want to pay particular tribute to the work of the secretariat, under david lowe, which deals with thousands of petitions. that is proof enough of the success of this system. i also want to underline the committee’s important collaboration with the european ombudsman and growing collaboration with the commission, and especially commissioner reding, who has always been present at the committee. i would stress, also, the importance of the charter of fundamental rights. it is now enforceable, and we need to bring it more and more into our work. however, i deplore the limits of the enforceability of the cfr, for example in the domain of property rights and the long-standing issue of the spanish ‘land grab’ of legally built and legally purchased house. it is a scandal that has been going on since 2004, sadly. mr helmer highlighted this, but it is no use attacking the commission and the eu when the only solution to this issue rests with the spanish government. it should address it immediately. property rights are a growing concern; we have seen even more petitions on this issue, which is now spreading to other parts of the eu, including bulgaria and cyprus. finally, therefore, let me make a recommendation. it is time, i believe, for a high-level commission or seminar on the issue of property rights and purchases of property in other countries to be undertaken immediately on behalf of the eu if we are to inform and protect our citizens in the future.
the next item is question time with the commission. this is our new style of question time. i would like to welcome commissioner reding, as well as commissioner tajani and commissioner andor, who should also be joining us; i see they are making their way round. let me just outline the way in which this new style of question time, which is a trial for six months, will operate. the specific topic of question time today is entitled ‘new forms of working’. the topic can be interpreted quite widely and i am prepared to do that, but i should also warn you that if your question is completely off topic – if you ask something about agricultural policy or foreign affairs – do not expect me to allow the question. i should also remind you exactly how the ground rules will work. it works on a catch-the-eye basis. i am pleased to see that you are already indicating; we are taking a list. each member will have a minute to put his or her question, then the commission will respond and the member will have 30 seconds to put a supplementary question. the important thing for the commissioners to note is that they will be limited in their replies to two minutes; that is two minutes for a reply from one commissioner. if more than one commissioner wishes to respond to the same question i will give them a minute apiece. this is an experiment. it is the first time. let us see how it goes.
there was an agreement with the commission as to the subject and it was endorsed by the conference of presidents. i should make clear that in future the political groups will be fully involved in the process through each of your groups to select the topic, again in conjunction with the commission, so there should be no difficulty over that.
madam president, i welcome this new experiment. i hope it is going to work. i will try to make my contribution. the eu, and i address this mainly to commissioner reding, has legislated in many areas of conditions at work, including equal rights and non-discrimination, so that female, gay, disabled or ethnic minority workers are treated fairly. but, if they move across borders under the free movement directive or posted workers directive, they do not have the assurance of a level playing field of equal treatment outside work. for instance in housing, education, supply of services and so on, due to the failure of the council to agree over the last three or four years a new anti-discrimination directive. alongside and very much related to that, there is no guarantee of recognition of same sex marriages and civil partnerships, including in tax, property and parental rights, supposedly because member states have prerogatives in family law. does it not make a mockery of eu promises of free movement and working mobility that there are no comprehensive eu guarantees for equality across the board?
we all know mrs reding’s commitment to this area and appreciate it, but i wonder whether it is possible to get the whole of the commission – including your colleagues there – on board for what an anomaly it is. we are passing directives on working time, agency workers, temporary workers and so on, but a big area of eu competence – and you did not reply on same-sex marriages and partnerships recognition – is just cut through by the fact that the commission itself needs to really push on this comprehensively.
my question is also to you, commissioner andor, on a couple of issues. one is the working time directive, to find out where we are at the moment on this, and whether you believe that there will be any movement in terms of retaining the voluntary opt out so that we have that flexibility, and whether you believe that the council is moving on that. incidentally, thank you very much for visiting bridgenorth aluminium in my constituency to hear for yourself from employers and employees alike of the need for flexibility regarding the working time directive. following on to the question you responded to just now on the posting of workers directive, could i have a little clarification as regards the enforcement directive? i assume that you are not saying that we should have an additional directive on top of the current posting of workers directive, but should make sure that we implement the current directive correctly – which obviously is not being done at the moment, as was referred to by my colleague.
i am sorry, i asked too many questions. that is why you spoke for over the allotted two minutes. it is my fault. i am very pleased that you are not opening up the posting of workers directive again and adding further directives to it. i do appreciate that if the social partners are talking about the working time directive at the moment, it is difficult for you to express an opinion on it. but i was just wondering if you could indicate whether you felt there would be an agreement in the health sector separately from the other sectors, or whether they were discussing the working time directive as a whole?
before we move to the next question can i just say i am sure that commissioner andor is enjoying being the focus of attention, but we have vice-president reding here and commissioner tajani, and i would hope that we could share the questions a little more equally and take advantage of everybody’s presence. with that in mind, mr tarand.
we will leave it at that because that question was really on the edge.
in terms of new forms of working, i am sure the commissioners would agree that workers see themselves not just as employees of the company with employment rights but also, increasingly, as stakeholders with an interest in the company’s impact on the locality in which they live, on their environment and on their human rights. i am actually very pleased, in this innovative session, that commissioner andor is together with commissioner tajani, because of course they are jointly involved in preparing the new commission communication on corporate social responsibility. this different concept of workers’ interests is very much central to that. i thank them for involving me in the consultations on it. can i ask them whether this concept of workers themselves being interested in the responsibility of the business will be part of the new communication? could they confirm that the multi-stakeholder approach, with trade unions and workers’ organisations fully involved in implementation, will be part of the follow-up to the communication? commissioner andor has already talked about ilo standards. can he confirm that these – and other – minimum applicable international global standards will be at the heart of the commission’s approach to the future of corporate social responsibility on our continent?
i welcome what both commissioners have said. in particular, commissioner tajani, you talk about the important business case for corporate social responsibility from the company’s point of view. but in addition to that, you both talk about its importance for european competitiveness and you will recall that past work on corporate social responsibility by the commission identified the responsible competitiveness index: the idea that the more responsible businesses you have in an economy the more successful and prosperous the whole economy is as well. again, i hope that that approach will be reflected in the new communication. i am sure myself and others in this parliament will want to contribute constructively in the work in the way that you suggest.
thank you very much, commissioner. i have to say that we have already gone over time, but the positive side is that we have tonight got through 22 questions, which is far more than we would ever normally have done under the old style of question time. my regret is for the 15 or so members whom i have not been able to call, but i hope, because of the targeted nature of the questions, that you will have got some response from those asked by other colleagues.
mr pirker, thank you for your comments. i made it clear at the beginning that we are in an experimental phase and i would like again to thank the commission for its cooperation and all of you who have had the chance to ask questions. you yourself, mr pirker, said that it had been interesting. that is what we are trying to get to. i can only again express my regret that it has not been possible to call everybody, but i hope that you will have taken something from this evening’s exchanges. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.15 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, startling leaps in technology and transportation mean the natural environment for a business has ballooned. past restrictions on interaction and collaboration have been removed by air travel and the internet. the floodgates have opened up increasing business opportunities, but this also creates a more crowded market place with greater competition. the commission’s view of globalisation is that national borders are losing their significance. international competition now starts at home, so the role of the nation state in fostering entrepreneurialism and providing a suitable platform for its industries is more important than ever. to stay ahead of the field, innovation and efficiency are essential. globalisation not only rewards, but requires inventiveness and flexibility, yet the burden of eu legislation is bogging businesses down. an estimate by the enterprise commissioner suggests the burden of regulation costs the eu economy eur 600 billion a year. from the working time directive to the agency workers directive, small companies are struggling through a bureaucratic quagmire that is stifling growth. a recent poll by icm (the institute of credit management) revealed that half of smes trading with the eu feel that the burden of regulation outweighs the benefits of the single market. 60% of uk businesses would renegotiate our relationship with the eu to return to a simple free trade area. the eu’s general attitude towards capitalism is to regard it with suspicion and contempt. by pushing forward erroneous social and employment policies, unifying welfare support across the union, and promoting cumbersome rights legislation, the eu protects and rewards the work-shy, while aspiring entrepreneurs are demoralised, demonised and left without a safety net. the greatest enemy to smes is the eu itself.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, although combating poverty and social exclusion is mainly the responsibility of national governments, the eu can play a coordinating role, and i believe it should, particularly in relation to homelessness. this is in line with the 2020 strategy. in many cases, however, there is no need to reinvent the wheel; there are many examples of best practice across the eu. that information needs to be collected and disseminated far more widely than it is being at the moment. can the commissioner outline more of the plans for what the commission is about to do under the homelessness strategy in terms of collating that information? also, how much information is already available from member states on the causes of homelessness? we know that three million people across the eu have no fixed home of their own. why is this? how much do drug and alcohol problems contribute to street homelessness? in one survey in the uk, for instance, 40% of people questioned had drug problems, 49% alcohol problems and 35% mental health problems. now you might say that adds up to over 100%. of course it does, because a lot of people had more than one: some of them had drug, alcohol and mental health problems combined. how much data do we already have from different member states on this issue? i know there are many projects that are trying to tackle these issues, like one in my constituency funded under the daphne programme dealing with women rough sleepers. also there are many projects dealing with domestic violence, which of course can in turn lead to homelessness. what i believe we are, all of us, asking for here is a coordinating approach across the eu. first and foremost, we need to know what is already being done and how we can assist in the development of national and regional strategies which would encourage member states to set a clear date to end street homelessness, which we called for in the written declaration that, as karima delli mentioned, was adopted on 16 december last year. homelessness has never been a political priority; it has never been a popular subject. maybe because there are not many votes in it, but that is one of the reasons why it is important to involve all people, from all parties and no party. we must involve national, regional and local policy-makers, homeless service providers and, above all, people who have experienced homelessness themselves. we need to work towards a homeless strategy that really works: a homeless strategy for the future.
madam president, i welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate on the issue of homelessness. while i recognise that this is an issue for the member states, it is also an issue to which this parliament and this house can give greater political importance through this kind of recognition and this kind of debate. in 2010-2011, in my constituency in northern ireland, the number of people who registered as homeless increased by 8% on the previous year. in 2010, there were over 38 000 applicants on the social housing waiting list. i know that there are a wide range of reasons for the increases in both housing waiting lists and in cases of homelessness. these can be both social and economic, as we have already heard very eloquently espoused in this house tonight. what is absolutely vital is that we give adequate support, guidance and training to those who find themselves in this position, as well as supply good quality and affordable accommodation. there are many initiatives in northern ireland to tackle the problem of homelessness. in the past three years, over eur 200 million have been spent on social housing. i am particularly encouraged by an emphasis on those young people who find themselves homeless, many through difficult problems and some through no fault of their own. i can look to some facilities which have opened just in the last year which are good examples of helping young people to gain long-term independence through the provision of temporary accommodation and adequate support services. these are the kinds of schemes that we should be looking at, and are the way forward.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i want to tell a story to the commissioner and the house. back in 2004, the commission put forward legislation, which i think was called the ‘f gas regulation’, part of which called for the phasing-out of the existing requirements as regards the gases used in mobile air conditioning – i.e. air conditioning systems in cars. i remember arguing that i did not have an air conditioning system in my car, but my greek colleagues assured me that these things were essential, so i lost the argument. i said at the time that we should just open the window, but now i have succumbed myself and got an air-conditioned car. however, at the time, and indeed now, almost every car in use in europe used or uses in its air conditioning system a hydrofluorocarbon called hfc-134a, which has a global warming potential 1 400 times greater than carbon dioxide. so if any leaks out, even in small quantities, it is an important contributor to the problem. eventually, after years of argument, we eventually resolved that from 2011 all new models of car should be fitted with an air conditioning system which used a gas with a global warming potential no greater than 150 times co2. this led to a confused situation in the industry and there have been all sorts of rows over the years, but eventually honeywell and dupont, two of the biggest chemical manufacturers, came up with an alternative air conditioning system using hfo-1234yf, which has a global warming potential of just four. this is going to become the standard: from 1 400 times co2 to just four times co2. the message of this story is very simple. regulations, much derided though they may be by businessmen, can push forward the pace of innovation, and the commissioner should be aware that, even though her staff may say there is no alternative to what we do at the moment, if she pushes the boat out it is amazing what industry can achieve.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is a new mood in strasbourg today, and during your speech, mr barroso, there was an all pervading sense of gloom. i saw for the first time even your own supporters shaking their heads. they do not believe in what you are saying. the european people do not believe in what you are saying, and i do not really think even you now believe in what you are saying. because we all know that greece is going to default. the end game for greece is near. and you cannot say you were not warned. you were told the treaties were fatally flawed. you were all told that greece should never have joined the euro. and when i stood up here five years ago and talked about greek bond spreads you treated me with such utter derision, it was as if i had been led out of the local lunatic asylum. no, you have been warned all the way through. so now what you have got is economic governance, and everybody here in this front row supports more european economic governance. what is european economic governance? i will tell you what it is: it is a plane landing in athens airport out of which get an official from the commission, an official from the european central bank and an official from the appalling imf, and those three people – the troika you call them – go in, they meet the greek government and they tell the greek government what they may or may not do. you have killed democracy in greece. you have three part-time overseas dictators that now tell the greek people what they can and cannot do. it is totally unacceptable. is it any wonder that greek people are now burning eu flags and drawing swastikas across them? frankly, unless greece is allowed to get out of this economic and political prison you may well spark a revolution in that country. i suppose there is some good news at least, and that is that in germany people are waking up; right up to the president people are saying all of this represents the death of democracy. none of this can work, and the german people will simply refuse in the end to pay the bill. your one achievement is that you have split europe between north and south. the greeks now badmouth the germans; the germans badmouth the greeks. i have one last plea, mr barroso: will you please help greece? help it to get its currency back. help it to reschedule its debts. help it out of the mess that you have put it into. your policies have failed. stand up, be a man, admit it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, the member is quite right. london has had some huge social problems, but they are not there today. the difference is that in greece these protests go on day after day. i put it to you that if you rob people of the most powerful thing they possess in a free society, their ability to vote for and to fire their governments and their ability to be the masters of their own destiny, all they are left with is civil disobedience and violence. so what you are doing in the name of economic governance is something which is incredibly dangerous. far from this european project being something that will engender peace, it is likely to do the very opposite.
mr president, we are on the edge of the second dip of a double-dip recession and the crisis is clearly deepening. it did not have to be this way. my group published a paper a year ago setting out an alternative economic agenda entitled ‘a fair way out of the crisis’. we called for a growth and jobs pact. there has been no focus at all on growth or employment in the last year. in america, president obama is launching a usd 450 billion american jobs act and europe remains silent on the jobs crisis. we called for fiscal consolidation, but at a sensible pace – all member states’ deficits below 3% by 2015, not 2013. the commission’s latest forecasts, expected tomorrow, will show that many member states cannot possibly make the 2013 deadline. we proposed a european stability agency to manage a system of eurobonds. i am glad to hear what you have said today, president barroso, on eurobonds, but i hope it is not a case of too little and too late. we proposed a financial transactions tax (ftt) as part of a broader budget revenue package. things have moved on this front but an ftt of 0.01% in 2018 will again be too little too late. finally, we made a number of proposals to tackle the root causes of the crisis on, for example, financial regulation and addressing macroeconomic imbalances. on the first, the commission does not even support a ban on naked short selling, and on the second the council opposes a symmetrical approach between deficit and excess countries. the latest economic data and developments point in the direction of these proposals and these policies. it is not just about european economic governance. it is about the content of the policies. it is absolutely critical that we find a proper balance between consolidation and urgent support for growth and investment. i will resend you a copy of this paper, president barroso. i hope this time you will read it and act on it.
mr president, we all woke up this morning to the news that yet another crisis meeting is taking place between the french president, the german chancellor and the greek prime minister in the slow-motion car crash that is economic and monetary union. greece and other countries are suffering from a crisis of competitiveness. they are suffering from a crisis of excessive debt. listening to this debate this morning, it seems obvious to me that that crisis will not solved by eurobonds. it will not be solved by imposing yet more high-interest loans on greece. it will not be solved by a financial transaction tax. in particular, it will not be solved by a theological debate about whether it is best to have the intergovernmental method, or the community method, or other such bizarre solutions. i am afraid that we have now reached such a stage that the only solution is for greece to devalue, to leave the euro and to default on its debts. that will be extremely difficult. it will be extremely painful. however, it is now the least bad option that is facing us to try a get a solution to this crisis.
mr president, in the history of the world there has never been a successful imposition of monetary union. each and all attempts have failed. today we are witnessing such a failure taking place in the eurozone. the political elites of europe, including those in this house, dare not admit that what they have introduced is failing, even when membership of the eurozone is increasingly damaging the infrastructure of member states. this arrogant indifference, together with growing disenchantment by the peoples of europe, is a dangerous brew and is leading to public disorder. more will occur. the european union exists on the maxim that every problem merely requires more europe when invariably it requires less and less, or none at all. the option that member states return to their own national currencies is never considered, even when it obviously is the correct and only course of action. the single currency contains the seeds of its own destruction. already it is causing hardship and the breakdown of society. it is long overdue that this house recognise this reality and place the welfare of the peoples of europe above misplaced political ambition.
mr president, the economic crisis in europe and the eurozone sovereign debt crisis are not happening in a bubble. they are occurring at a time of unprecedented turmoil in the global economies around the world. collectively, europe needs to raise trillions of euros to fund the 27 economies; the member states need investors to purchase their sovereign bond issuances. so what the market thinks is actually very important. for as long as we need money from the markets, whether for sovereign or efsf bonds, we need to listen to what they are saying. currently their message is very clear. italian bonds issued this week saw very low demand at very high rates, despite the purchasing of billions of italian and spanish bonds by the ecb in the secondary market. this week, the interest rate for italian bonds has again reached 5.75%, which is hardly sustainable for the third-largest bond market in the world. the markets are pricing in a 98% chance of a default in greece. are all the experts in the world wrong? who is going to buy the debt if it is not the investors?
mr president, the euro crisis has led some to demand more centralisation, but others are calling for more european localism. these ideas are not incompatible! localism is not eurosceptic opportunism or protectionism; far too often, decisions are taken by this house without even considering whether that decision could be taken locally or nationally. the resulting legislation often adds bureaucracy costs and stifles investment. yes, we need to mend our public finances, but we must also improve competitiveness and cut those costs. for example, we do need international agreement on banks, but we do not need every mortgage offer to every resident in every country to be identical. yes, we should work together when necessary, but we must also give back responsibility to our citizens and our governments wherever possible.
mr president, interest rates in the eurozone cannot be appropriate for economies in very different states of health. interest rates are too high for southern european countries that are in recession, because they have been raised to curb inflationary pressures in germany. this has exacerbated the recession and led to falling government revenues and increased government debt. furthermore, the percentage return, or coupon, on sovereign bonds has had to be higher because of diminished confidence and fear of default. the ecb was already buying small countries’ sovereign debt and has recently started to buy spanish and italian bonds to instil confidence. while this might postpone the crisis, there is a real danger that the ecb will purchase bonds the market value of which will eventually fall, as has occurred with the bonds from greece, ireland and portugal. and even an institution like the ecb cannot survive a massive fall in the assets on its balance sheet without huge recapitalisation at the expense of taxpayers in the eurozone and outside it.
in writing. – the architects of the european single currency are to blame for the crisis that now faces the eurozone. the euro was never an economic project. it was a political project designed to help bring about a united states of europe. once of the vital attributes of a state is its currency and that is why the european union forced through the introduction of the euro against all the sensible advice against it. you do not have to be an economist to know that to constrain a number of completely different economies within a single interest rate and exchange rate will, over time, bring nothing but problems and eventual disaster. that is what we are seeing now, and of course mr barroso is calling for full economic and financial governance of the eurozone countries by the european union. the crisis was entirely predictable and so was mr barroso’s proposed solution. the euro is going to come apart. it is just a question of time. the longer it takes the worse the crash is going to be. the people to blame are those who forced the economies of the eurozone into an economic straightjacket in order to serve a political dogma.
mr president, we all share in the sorrow, anger and dismay at such a futile act of mass murder. may i express my sympathy, and the sympathy of my constituents, with the people of norway in this tragedy? sadly, in northern ireland, we know the horror of terrorism only too well. that this terrorism should be directed at young people is particularly horrifying. many eminent people have been quoted here today, many statesmen, writers, politicians. i think, as probably the last speaker in this round, it would be appropriate if i take you to the words of one young survivor, who explained in her blog how she rushed through the bushes and the rocks to escape the killer: ‘i can't even shed a tear’, she wrote, ‘i can't believe it. today i almost died. we don't deserve to die and that is also why i am writing this post. we are just ordinary people. we are involved in politics. we want to make the world a better place’. mr president, we stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of norway at this time of grief. in this house, we come from all shades of political opinion. while many of us find the politics of the far right sickening, by standing together as democrats we can ensure that terror and violence will never prevail. (applause)
mr president, ‘this is the midnight – let no star delude us – dawn is very far. this is the tempest long foretold, slow to make head but sure to hold’. the markets are now pricing in a 98% likelihood of a massive default in greece and we have spent this morning in the house jamming our fingers in our ears and humming beethoven’s ninth. the assumptions on which european integration has rested are crumbling. big is not beautiful. national differences cannot be eradicated. harmonisation does not lead to prosperity. it is not just the european assumptions that are crumbling: it is the whole keynesian edifice on which they rest. all those men who think of themselves as practical, but are in fact slaves to some long-defunct economist, are now finding that their elite system is in ruins. you cannot spend your way to growth. you cannot increase consumption without producing anything, at least not in the long term. you cannot debase a currency without consequences, and you cannot keep borrowing forever. and if you try to do those things, what happens? you are about to find out!
mr president, many people have no idea how much national legislation emanates from the european union. in the uk, it is estimated that there are now 100 000 laws, regulations, directives and decisions which come from the eu and have been imposed on the country. it is estimated that this collective legal burden, known as corpus juris, costs between 4% and 10% of annual wealth in britain. it is also estimated that the cost of such over-regulation is eur 600 billion a year across the eu, and gbp 118 billion within the uk. surely it is time to turn off this legislative sausage machine.
mr president, let me remind the house one more time of article 125 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the union shall not be liable or assume responsibility for the debts of a member state or a public body within a member state. neither shall any other member state. we all seem to have forgotten that and yet, until a couple of months ago, nobody was seriously trying to argue that this policy of massive bail-outs was legal. now not only have the eu institutions themselves connived in this flagrant disregard for what the dots and commas of the treaty specify, but our national legal systems are also being made to collude in the deceit. like the ancient mariner’s crewmates, they are making themselves accomplices in the crime. when a political system departs from the rule of law it de-legitimises itself. a polity that is ruling arbitrarily, that is not following the rule book, forfeits the allegiance of its citizens.
mr president, yesterday i quoted my countryman jonathan swift on the subject of bank runs, but i think the condition of eu documentation and lawmaking would have defied the parodic powers even of jonathan swift. you may remember that when gulliver goes to lilliput it is explained to him by one of the lilliputians that it is a rule there that no law should be so long or so complicated that a common man cannot understand it. what, i wonder, would he have made of a typical day’s voting in this house? all of us know, although we do not like to admit it in front of our constituents, that you cannot possibly be on top of more than two or three of the documents that we vote on in any given session. there simply is not the time available in the day. in fact, we have elevated this scrambling of documentation into a ruling doctrine. when we turned the constitution into the lisbon treaty its chief author, valéry giscard d’estaing, cheerfully admitted that lawyers had gone through the text with the sole purpose of rendering it ‘illisible’: unreadable. what does it tell you about a political system when it dare not express its purposes? how can it expect loyalty from its citizens when it will not express itself clearly?
mr president, thank you for your kind words. it is sometimes said that the european commission is undemocratic in that none of its members is elected, but actually i find that it is rather more than that. uniquely in the western world we have contrived a system which is anti-democratic, in the sense that you generally have to have lost an election before you are appointed to the european commission. if i think of the british appointees over the years – chris patten, neil kinnock, peter mandelson – it was only when they had been expressly rejected by their constituents that they were invited to come and legislate for them at european level. i think of the career of our current uk commissioner, baroness ashton, who has never once in her entire life taken the trouble to present herself to her fellow countrymen and ask for their support in an election. she is a product of the british quango state, having flitted from bureaucracy to bureaucracy, becoming an appointed peer and then arriving here. is it any wonder that a system based around this insulation from public opinion should be so contemptuous of democracy when, for example, a referendum goes the wrong way?
mr president, one of the best ways to help development and to help those in poorer countries is to help the entrepreneurs in those countries who create wealth for their local communities; and one of the ways to help them is to make sure that we have open markets so that entrepreneurs from the poorer countries can compete and have access to world markets as well as access to the goods and services that we currently enjoy. why should it only be we in the west, or in the northern hemisphere, who enjoy the very best goods and services? it is a shame that our progress in this area keeps getting stuck, and most of the lack of movement tends to be on agriculture. it is a pity that we seem to be in a situation where we have to unlock agriculture before we unlock manufacturing before we unlock services, although services account for a very large percentage of gdp. it is also a shame that we seem to be focusing mostly on bilateral agreements – which may not necessarily undermine the multilateral process, but i think it is important that we continue to move towards multilateralism. if this does not work, we should bear in mind the work of professor razeen sally who said that 50 countries, or 25 if one counts the eu as one trade block, account for 80% of world trade and a greater share of fdi. maybe we should be looking for those countries to go for a plurilateral agreement.
mr president, i commend my colleague, sajjad karim, on a sensible report that takes us back in the right direction. the emphasis on subsidiarity is correct. 90% of the british economy has nothing to do with trade with the eu, and 80% of that economy is trade within the uk, but we have to apply all of these eu laws – 100 000 of them. on better legislation, the agency workers directive, which will shortly be coming into force, is a disaster for britain because, in the uk, we have a far more flexible workforce, which is vital to our prosperity and to our recovery. the question is why, when 80% of agency workers are in the uk, the eu should have any role in this legislation at all. the same is true of the dreadful fund managers directive, where again 80% of fund managers are only in the uk. the lesson is this: overregulation destroys jobs, and we need less regulation now.
in writing. − i welcome this mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers made redundant by at/at&s from austria. the redundancies concern the land of steiermark at nuts ii level and östliche obersteiermark at nuts iii level, and more specifically the district of leoben. this is an industry-dominated area, economically dependent on a few large enterprises such as at&s. moreover, as at&s was the region's largest employer up until december 2008, the 167 redundancies in the present case would put the labour market under serious pressure. the co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded, including its compatibility with actions funded by the structural funds, includes measures for the reintegration of the 74 targeted workers into employment, such as information and admission to the labour foundation, occupational orientation, active job search, individual training, training and job search allowance.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this application fits the criteria perfectly.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; appreciates, in this sense, the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following parliament's request to accelerate the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission's assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund; and hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the egf and that greater efficiency, transparency and visibility of the fund will be achieved.
in writing. − i support this proposal to mobilise funds under the globalisation adjustment fund. this is the 11th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 649 148 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 800 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in 52 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (‘printing and reproduction of recorded media’) in the nuts ii regions of zuid-holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31) in the netherlands, during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010.
in writing. − this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 667 823 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 199 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in 14 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the nuts ii region of noord-brabant (nl41), during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. i voted for it.
in writing. − i voted for this, which is the tenth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 718 140 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 214 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in nine enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) in the netherlands during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which means parliament has voted to approve aid totalling eur 9 506 036 from the eu globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for redundant workers in austria, plus eur 5 884 197 for redundant dutch workers.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for redundant workers wherever they are in the world, i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. it is a slap in the face to hardworking brits who have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in the netherlands. increasingly the uk is becoming a hub for people who have fled their own eu member states to try to earn more money or claim benefits in the uk, which they often send large proportions of back home rather than inject it into the local economy. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency.
in writing. − i believe that increasing integrity and transparency in wholesale energy markets should seek to foster open and fair competition that will benefit consumers. energy prices need to be contained or lowered and not harmed by market manipulation, thus i fundamentally disagree with creating an eu regulation that serves only to promote the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which requires all eu energy traders to register. the cost of red tape will trickle down to households and businesses that already struggle with rising costs of fuel. this is merely another attempt by the eu to harmonise policy across the union and seize control of energy security regardless of the impact such legislation is likely to have.
in writing. − i welcome this report and the commission proposal and its sector-specific approach to focus on the energy sector, in order to prevent market abuse. the structure of the proposal and the mechanisms proposed for applying the regulation are very good, nevertheless several improvements can be made and they are reflected in the report.
in writing. − the eu commission’s emphasis on improving the prevention of infringements while ensuring sufficient means are made available, especially preserving consistency in the application of eu law by the member states and ensuring the role of the court of justice, is not at all welcome. i strongly oppose the idea of the eu commission investigating and initiating infringement proceedings when a petition or complaint is directed against jurisdiction by a national court. it implies not only a disregard for domestic rule of law and but absolute disrespect for judicial impartiality.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which evaluates the commission’s monitoring of the application of european union law in 2009. it focuses on the fundamental role of the commission as ‘guardian of the treaty’ and the commission’s power and duty to bring infringement proceedings against a member state that has failed to fulfil an obligation under the treaty. it reiterates that the infringement procedure consists of two phases: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage before the court of justice. in the administrative phase, the role of citizens (complainants) in ensuring compliance with union law on the ground is of paramount importance. bringing europe closer to its citizens and embracing techniques of good governance are intrinsically linked. one of the areas of direct interaction between ‘europe’ and the eu citizens is precisely the administrative phase of article 258 tfeu, where citizens turn to the commission and parliament for help in order to access their european rights. as such, it is vital that complainants are treated according to principles of good administration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which reiterates that parliament should be at the forefront of the proactive approach on publicity, transparency, openness and access to documents; highlights in that regard the success of webstreaming of hearings and committee meetings in addition to plenary sittings, and believes that this should become the norm and that the legislative observatory should be expanded even further to include all eu official languages and information, both at committee and plenary level, such as amendments, opinions from other committees, legal service opinions, voting lists, roll-call votes, present and voting meps, interinstitutional letters, names of shadow rapporteurs, a ‘search by word’ function, multilingual search, tabling deadlines, rss feeds, an explanation of the legislative procedure, links to webstreamed discussions, etc., to ensure a full cycle of information for citizens, giving access to the documents as well to multilingual citizens’ summaries of legislative proposals and summaries of existing eu legislation (scadplus), for which adequate search and browsing facilities as described should be offered as well.
in writing. − i welcome the recommendations contained in this report, which should improve the conduct of hearings for commissioners-designate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, in which parliament reiterates its full commitment to the multilateral trading system and the wto as the guarantor of a rules-based trade system, and reaffirms its full commitment to a balanced and fair conclusion of the dda. it also recognises the deadlock in the original architecture and objectives of the dda and insists on the need to resume the debate on the future functioning of the wto, with a possible reform on the new multilateral trading system. the s&d group decided to support this resolution. however, some key amendments were eliminated in the committee vote and up-to-date elements on the negotiations are missing in the resolution.
in writing. − i welcome the concept of better regulation in the eu and am happy to see key concerns and priorities reflected in this report. i especially welcome the recognition that, in today’s economic climate, it is vitally important that we identify any new eu laws imposed on member states that may result in driving up business costs. this would be particularly detrimental to small and medium-sized enterprises. in the united kingdom, small and medium-sized enterprises are already struggling to survive. therefore any further financial burdens could lead to the downfall of these businesses. at a time when we should be encouraging entrepreneurship and growth in the market it is crucial that the commission look closely at regulatory burden reduction for smes throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. real political leadership is required from all institutions and the member states in order to strengthen the smart regulation agenda, but the commission plays a key role in keeping this issue high on the political agenda. a commissioner should therefore be entrusted with this issue as the main part of his or her portfolio. parliament should at the same time investigate ways of increasing its commitment to smart regulation, for instance by making use of inter-committee meetings. the commission will present a progress report on the smart regulation agenda in the second half of 2012. parliament must make sure to follow up closely on every aspect in this area.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the activities of the petitions committee in 2010. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon confirmed the right to petition the european parliament as one of the cornerstones of european citizenship and as a fundamental right under article 227 of the new treaty (ex article 194 tec), which provides that citizens or residents of the european union, whether natural or legal persons, individually or in association with other citizens or persons, have the right to address a petition to the european parliament on a matter which comes within the union’s fields of activity and which affects them directly. this tool allows citizens to bring before parliament their concerns about the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their everyday lives.
in writing. − i have a great deal of sympathy for people who are homeless and have no doubt that as a society we should do our utmost to enable them to rebuild their lives. however i voted against an eu homelessness strategy, as i firmly believe we do not require the commission to develop a voluntary quality framework as stipulated in the communication on the european poverty platform. in the proposition of the legislation is the suggestion that the uk needs to rely upon the eu to develop a strategic framework for services where many organisations and charities already work tirelessly to combat homelessness. instead any regulation by the commission is likely to add red tape to services and slow them down, also costing substantial amounts of money to enforce and thus redirecting resources away from the people who really need it. this is another attempt to push towards new eu regulation where it is not required.
in writing. − i voted for this report which urges member states to make progress towards the goal of ending street homelessness by 2015 and calls for the development of an ambitious, integrated eu strategy, underpinned by national and regional strategies with the long-term aim of ending homelessness within the broader social inclusion framework.
in writing. − i voted against this report to show my disapproval of the european union’s action on hfcs under the montreal protocol as a prime example of a non-market-based approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions at cop-17 in durban. in a time of austerity, new stricter rules on greenhouse gases, mainly used in refrigeration and air conditioning systems, will create extra expenditure to people already struggling with a higher cost of living. in addition i would like to express opposition to creating a further burden for the car industry by pushing forward the idea of reducing bloc carbon emissions.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which welcomes the european union’s commitment to support action on hfcs under the montreal protocol as a prime example of a non-market-based approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions at cop-17 in durban.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, free libya forces have courageously liberated tripoli. they have control of the country’s key population centres. there have been few reprisals or abuses committed by the anti-gaddafi forces, in contrast to the serious war crimes committed by gaddafi loyalists and foreign mercenaries. the deranged despot gaddafi has finally been overthrown and it is clear from this that the people of libya are now keen to establish a pluralist democracy. i am not sure whether it is going to be liberal yet. however, though gaddafi himself is no longer in tripoli, some of his supporters are still at large and still pose a security threat until he is either killed, or captured and surrendered to the icc. my group, the ecr, strongly supports nato in its continued operations – which are, i have to say, unique in that there have been zero casualties from a military point of view to date – to protect libyan civilians. it is also vital that we support the ntc-led political transition that must now take place from a dictatorship of over 40 years to the ultimate goal, a government chosen by the people and thereafter subject regularly to elections to ensure its legitimacy to govern by consent. i have to say it was not a proud day for the eu in terms of unity at the beginning, particularly the abstention by germany in the security council over resolution 1973. the uk prime minister, david cameron, in contrast, must be congratulated on his courageous initiative alongside french president sarkozy early on, speaking out as lone voices in the international community – though the wider community internationally must now continue to support libya as it starts to rebuild itself. it has not just to recover from a war that has killed many of its citizens and build a democracy; it has to build this in the absence of any meaningful civil or political institutions. the mountain that the national transitional council must now climb is great, and it will need all the friendly support it can get in order both to re-establish security in the country and to provide the basic services to its citizens, when right now many of the inhabitants of tripoli, for instance, do not have access to clean running water. i have to say to the african union, and south africa in particular, get real. gaddafi your friend has gone, please recognise the ntc as a legitimate authority in libya. mercifully, once oil production restarts libya will again be a rich country. we in the ecr therefore welcome the lifting by the eu of the freeze on assets held by the member states, and believe that these should be returned forthwith to the ntc for reconstruction efforts and humanitarian aid. it will also be necessary to subject libyan finances, including in the city of london which i represent, to the investigation of forensic accountants in order to determine the whereabouts of the billions that were stolen under gaddafi’s rule. all this must remain nevertheless a libyan-led process without any occupying foreign army. we must also ensure that surrounding countries such as algeria and niger pledge to hand over gaddafi, and any accused members of his family, to the ntc so that they may be put on trial for the crimes against humanity for which they stand accused, either in libya, or before the icc in the hague. the ntc must for its part guarantee fair and transparent trials for all those found guilty of serious human rights crimes. we congratulate libya on its achievements thus far. we recognise the bravery of the rebels, in particular the long-suffering berbers, that had the courage to fight this ruthless regime, and we offer our condolences to the families of the victims both of the regime and of the battle for freedom. we welcome the ntc’s constitutional declaration announced last month as a suitable interim constitution, and we must now fully support their quest for a new, democratic libya, as a moderate muslim country eschewing extremism of any kind.
madam president, i am sure the house regrets, like i do, the absence of lady ashton. on the other hand, i recognise that the work she is doing in the region is of primordial importance, not just for middle east peace, but also for wider regional stability and security which, as has so often been said, has been dramatically altered by the extraordinary events of the arab spring and its fall-out. i recall a debate in this chamber on 8 march, when many of us were demanding that the european union should recognise the national transitional council. i had the honour to be one of the first politicians in europe to welcome mahmoud jibril, the current acting prime minister, to my office here. at that time, baroness ashton was extremely reluctant to commit herself. i think that was a pity, because european leadership on this question would have been quite accessible. immediately thereafter, mr jibril went to paris and got the recognition of the french president. this chamber has been the source of some informative and inspirational debate, but today we are looking at a libya which has transformed since we last met here in july. across the region, the developments from the arab spring are evolving in an unsteady way – whether it is in egypt or in tunisia, which i visited recently and is facing elections very soon now. my message to the house today, and to those listening from other institutions, is that we must be ready for change, but also for uncertainty, because the future is not as clear as we might have hoped a few months ago. can i conclude by saying that i do hope the house can support the consensus that the sakharov prize should be awarded to the martyrs of the arab spring and some of the leading personalities within it. this would be an extremely important and timely gesture showing that we care about democracy and human rights, and that we want them to extend not just to libya, to tunisia and to egypt, but far beyond that in the arab world and elsewhere.
madam president, one does not have to be sympathetic towards the despicable tyrant colonel gaddafi to be sceptical about the west’s motives for support of the rebels in that country. it follows gaddafi’s plan to operate a rather ambitious golden dinar policy of selling oil only for gold and bypassing the dollar. furthermore, it has been admitted that british international development minister and former oil trader, alan duncan, arranged a deal between the national transitional council and vitol, an oil company for which duncan formerly worked. it is believed that under this deal vitol, which is the largest trader of oil and refined products in the world, will have a monopoly over the trade in libya’s oil. it has also been revealed that the national transitional council has announced it will recognise the state of israel, a step that many arab countries are reluctant to take. i do not have a view as to whether or not this will be desirable, but i would not want to think this might have been a contributory motive for war.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as socialists and democrats we support wholeheartedly the recent council conclusions that the syrian regime loses any legitimacy by choosing a path of repression instead of fulfilling its own promise of reforms. we call on president bashar al-assad to relinquish power immediately and we reject impunity for all those responsible for the gross violation of human rights. we back sanctions that target the regime, but which minimise the negative impact on the living conditions of the population. just today, i have been in touch with opposition contacts who inform me that there have been further protests in the city of homs and in hama, but also sadly state that the crackdown by government forces continues and that the death toll is rising. i join with baroness ashton in condemning in the strongest terms the killing of the human rights activist ghiyath matar, a 26-year-old who had been instrumental in organising protests in the damascus suburb of daraya. he, like so many others, defied the security forces and paid the ultimate price. i am sure you will share my disgust at reports filtering out of the country today that syrian security forces attacked the gathering of mourners at his very funeral. we have just finished a debate on libya. of course we should call for the un human rights council to have a fact-finding mission immediately to the country, but we should follow the model of libya and call for referral to the international criminal court. indeed, i say today to our european representatives: you should be proactive in seeking support for that referral in the un security council. i believe too, whilst welcoming the strong condemnation of the violence by countries such as turkey and saudi arabia, that europe must call for active follow-up by the arab league following the secretary-general’s visit – finally – to meet the syrian authorities. as my colleague mr kasoulides said, the number of deaths is 2 600, according to the office of the high commissioner for human rights this week. the syrian people have demonstrated that things must change and face a terrible risk, but the current regime will not listen. we in europe and the international community have to show that their cries are not in vain.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, when installed by the syrian ba’athist clique which surrounded him, president bashar al-assad was seen by many as a young reformer – a doctor like me, which implied some degree of compassion – and the man who would lead syria away from the brutal dictatorship of his father, dominated by the alawite sect, into a modern pluralist democracy. alas this was not going to come to pass. sadly, the infectious arab spring desire for freedom and democracy was never going to be acceptable to the assad damascus dictatorship, which instead gunned down thousands of unarmed peaceful protestors, including women and children, on the feeble excuse that some armed islamists had joined the rebellion. of course, this is ironic given the fact that damascus has given huge support to hamas and hezbollah in the past. syria is not libya and, sadly, al-assad knows that we cannot launch a similar right-to-protect nato military operation on the side of the rebels, but we can state our revulsion at assad’s brutality, and we can apply stronger sanctions, including selective bans on investment from european companies and oil import bans, which are in place already, and we can treat the illegitimate ba’athist leadership as the pariahs that they really are.
madam president, events during the last year have been not only shocking, but also disappointing. when bashar al-assad succeeded his father 11 years ago it was hoped that he would follow a reformist agenda, but it would appear that the real power might not be in the hands of bashar but in those of his hardline relations. the ba’ath party’s image was never democratic, but it is now one of violent repression, which is perhaps disappointing because its substantive policies, as distinct from its methods, are less islamist and more secular than in most arab countries. indeed, its christian population – 10% of the total – enjoys religious, though not of course political, freedom. i would like to see a democratic reform of syria, but we must not presume that all of al-assad’s opponents are democrats. they include hardline islamists such as the muslim brotherhood, who would replace a repressive secular state with a repressive theocratic state.
madam president, today, as professional snipers explode bullets in the heads of demonstrators in syria leaving horrifying mutilations, it is quite clear that this is nothing short of pure terrorism. i have previously, when we debated syria, wanted to concentrate on the role played by online activists and i want to explore that further. it is quite clear that, without normal media outlets in operation, online activists are the only lifeline that people in syria have today to let the world know what is happening. the government there has taken a two-pronged approach so far. firstly, it seeks to block sites including facebook, and then it decides to rescind that ban in certain cases, not out of openness but in order to try and identify those activists. it then moves on to a second stage, which is to arrest those activists who persist and then force those activists to pass over their usernames and passwords. they do that through the use of torture, including food and sleep deprivation, fingernail extraction, electric shocks, stripping naked and flogging and sexual abuse of female detainees by male security officers. on 6 july, i attended this plenary debate and i wanted concentration on these issues. the high representative very kindly then wrote to me on 26 july. in the letter she states, and i quote: ‘despite the constraints of an environment which is so controlled by the government, the eu is developing practical actions to support the civil society and human rights defenders in syria and beyond’. i ask you, what exactly are those measures in relation to online activists? what are we doing? what more can we be do doing? finally, i simply say this. i met mr bashar al-assad not so long ago. i found him to be a most charming man who, directly to our delegation, promised reform. he has not delivered. he is not going to deliver. he must go immediately.
mr president, eur 1 billion every year: that is the amount of taxpayers’ money that the commission and member states give to the palestinian authority. eur 1 billion a year to a corrupt regime that does very little for its own people, while ordinary voters in our countries are crushed by rising taxes and inflation. it is unreal. worse than that, eu policy is based on the false concept that a two-state solution is workable. it might have been once, but it is too late now. the palestinians are geographically dispersed: over two million live east of the 1947 armistice lines, a million in gaza, and about a million in israel. in the occupied territories, the illegal zionist settlement programme has sliced their land into disjointed parcels. even if all the territories conquered in 1967 were included, palestine would still be only 22% of the territory of the current greater israel. it would be an economic basket case, forever reliant on foreign aid handouts. the two-state solution sounds pretty, but it is simply not realistic. yet again, the eu is throwing money away on a policy doomed to failure. we must accept that we cannot solve every problem in the world. we should turn our attention and money to solving our own. let us face it: thanks to the euro disaster, this place is not going to run out of problems. eu meddling in the holy land is not only stealing money from overtaxed british families; combined with even more massive us aid for israel it encourages both sides to refuse to get serious about sorting out their own differences. none of it helps real people. it is a counterproductive waste of eur 1 billion a year.
mr president, i am perturbed, but not surprised, by the lack of leadership shown by the external action service on this issue. i have listened very carefully to the representative of the presidency and there are many issues we agree on, principally the need to get back to the negotiating table, because it is only there that a full and lasting settlement can actually come forward. however, despite endless meetings and the lateness of the hour, we still have no position from the eu. president obama this week reiterated the us position that if this issue reaches the security council they will use their veto in that forum. however, the representative of the presidency – and i hope i quote correctly – says that only the eu can play a useful role in bridging the gap. surely we are entitled to greater clarity and a much more direct answer. do the polish presidency and the commission believe that the declaration of an independent palestinian state at the un will contribute to a positive outcome of the negotiations and stability in the region?
mr president, can i take this opportunity to raise another matter of great urgency and great concern in the middle east? i am referring to camp ashraf in northern iraq, home for the past quarter of a century to more than 3 400 iranian dissidents who, as you know, have suffered from repeated attacks and harassment by the iraqi authorities, culminating in a massacre on 8 april this year when 36 of them – unarmed civilians – were killed in cold blood. as you know commissioner, prime minister nouri al-maliki has given the camp’s residents a deadline of 31 december this year to clear ashraf. the clock is now ticking rapidly and although we have brokered a plan within the eu for resettling the residents to third countries, and some eu member states – and even some countries outside the eu – have already started taking some of these refugees, we are running out of time and we are facing the prospect of another violent attack and bloodshed perhaps on a scale similar to srebrenica. i received information last night from unhcr that the residents of ashraf are protected under international law, but can i urge the commission to follow the example of un high commissioner antónio guterres and write to nouri al-maliki demanding an extension of the deadline to give us time to work on the resettlement plan, and in the meantime to provide some protection by getting a un presence in camp ashraf.
in writing. – i welcome a guardian newspaper report which says ‘the majority of people in the uk, france and germany want their governments to vote in favour of recognising a palestinian state if a resolution is brought before the united nations in the next few weeks, according to an opinion poll. the three european countries are seen as crucial votes in the battle over the palestinians’ bid for statehood at the un, which meets next week. all three are pressing for a return to peace negotiations as an alternative to pursuing the statehood strategy, but they have not declared their intentions if it comes to a un vote.’
author. − mr president, one of the words so often associated with the eu, rightly or wrongly, is that it is corrupt. in this chamber we all know this is a sweeping generalisation, yet we can and should do more to deal with corrupt abuses of eu money. i welcome action by the commission and its use of a series of measures that tackle corruption both in the public and the private sphere. however, before we here pass legislation affecting the activities of our citizens, we need to begin by getting our own house in order and securing finally a positive statement of assurance on the eu’s accounts. we all recall the debates surrounding the interinstitutional agreement attached to the last multiannual financial framework. in the institute of internal auditors, the council gave a commitment that member states would self-certify the money they spend on behalf of the eu, which is something like 80% of the eu budget yet, as we near the end of this mff, we have still to see that promise fully implemented across the eu. therefore, i ask the council and commission for a firm statement today that they will step up their demands on member states to provide full and proper self-certification of all eu monies, which hopefully would go a long way towards alleviating auditors’ concerns. of course, we also need to see more naming and shaming of countries that fail to stamp out corrupt practices. it was the involvement of this parliament which forced the inclusion of self-certification in the iia, and i hope this institution will have a continuing role to play in ensuring that the anti-corruption package really bites. if the eu economy was a body, then corruption would be deemed a disease. we must control that disease at all times – but particularly when the economic body is weak – so that it cannot be allowed to spread, causing further, possibly irreparable, damage.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there are in the chamber today, i noticed while the debate was going on, many members who have given literally most of their professional lives to tackling corruption. what they want to see, and certainly what my group wants to see, is some definition and highlighting of how exactly we will implement many of the elements of the package which, of course, we welcome. corruption is such a catch-all term that we must take the opportunity in this resolution to define and highlight what we can do and to be honest about what we cannot achieve. that is what people want in this chamber today. i welcome very much what the commission has said, but i must say that the lack of transparency and the poor quality of transposition – as somebody who is near to this subject – is something which is very disturbing. what we must do, and i know the commission wants to do this, is define the immediate priorities. the commissioner said we have to wait until 2013, but one idea we have had is that we may want to carry out interim anti-corruption reports before 2013. i only say this because at a time of austerity, at a time when citizens want us to visibly fight corruption in the union, perhaps this would send a signal that this is an immediate priority for us in the european union. corruption is, of course, a cross-border issue which needs to be taken seriously by every eu member state. it therefore needs tough legislation and effective evaluation mechanisms at eu level. the council and member states must also fully implement the existing 1995 and 1997 eu conventions. one way we can make progress is to take the general approach of prioritising our fight within the context of our security agenda for years to come. i notice i am over time, so i will just finally say that the various elements of this resolution are important, but the prioritising of those elements is important.
the next item is the commission statement on famine in east africa.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, by the time this debate has finished, about 420 people will have died of starvation, with their stomachs blowing up while we have been talking here. four hundred people is about two jet aircraft crashing while our debate is going on. if two jet aircraft crashed while our debate was going on, it would be world headline news on cnn. four hundred people dying of malnutrition and starving and dying while we are talking is no news at all. but, time and time again, the european union has come to the rescue of many millions of people in similar circumstances. every ten years or so, we have a massive famine in the horn of africa. in countries around africa we have, at the moment, about 15 million people dying of famine; we have 30% of the children dying of famine. the world food programme is dropping biscuits laced with vitamins to prevent people from dying. we know. this is not a surprise. this keeps happening. you will remember sir bob geldof and what he did some time ago. but what is it that we are not doing? where do i hear the words ‘irrigation projects’? where do i hear the words ‘desertification and re-irrigation’? there are people in desert climates, in israel for example, turning a barren desert into green fields. we have the ability to re-irrigate africa. we need irrigation projects, sustainable agricultural development and a long-term plan. this short-termism – bringing out a fire hose and putting out this fire, then waiting another few years and putting out that fire – is not enough.
mr president, may i ask mr provera whether he would not consider it absolutely ridiculous that somaliland, which he just mentioned, is a better governed state but is not recognised by us in the european union, whereas somalia is? how is it possible that a democratically-elected country is not recognised and we ignore it, and yet we do other things with other people who do not seem to have recognised democracy at all?
mr president, famine is a terrible human tragedy. not only does the individual die slowly by wasting and hunger, but often has to watch their own loved ones, including mothers their infants, suffer and die with them, with a feeling of total helplessness that nothing can be done to stop it. so my group, the ecr, extends condolences to those suffering in the east of africa, and especially the families of the tens of thousands that are thought to have died already. we must ensure that the way for humanitarian aid stands open so that which is sent reaches those that need it. we condemn the repulsive acts of al-shabaab, the islamist terrorist organisation in somalia, in its determination to obstruct aid from the world food programme and other organisations. i was in somaliland two weeks ago and witnessed first-hand what can potentially be achieved in the horn of africa. somaliland has managed, as a territory – or a country – to forestall the effects of the famine, and must also be praised for its role in opposing insurgencies such as al- shabaab and fighting piracy. the eu must respond to the humanitarian crisis, but it is also absolutely vital that we do all that we can to ensure that countries such as somalia and ethiopia – which is otherwise a good news story in terms of economics – have the necessary resources and ensure that the necessary future measures – such as irrigation projects – are in place to make them more resilient in future, particularly as regards the threats of climate change and drought. for this reason i believe that the eu... (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, having been to somaliland, and having recognised that we do not recognise somaliland, which is a perfectly functioning state, i wonder what my honourable friend would like to say about what we can do to make other countries in that region more like somaliland and how we can help somaliland to actually be a beacon for that region?
mr president, i would like to thank mr deva for what he said. in fact i could speak for half an hour on somaliland as i am leading the campaign for re-recognition of the former british protectorate of somaliland. french somalia became djibouti without any problem. somaliland unfortunately joined the south, having been recognised as an independent state for one week in 1960 in a very unhappy marriage with the italian somalia, and it resulted in a civil war in 1991 when siad barre’s government fell. there is a campaign led by people in the house of commons in the united kingdom, which of course as the former colonial power has a prime responsibility, for re-recognition of somaliland as an independent state. i hope that this can come to fruition one day.
mr president, we have all been deeply distressed by the harrowing images and suffering as a result of the famine in east africa. while it is right that we bring aid to countries in crisis – and i commend those charities and aid agencies that coordinate this life-saving work – i think this house should remember that the problems we see in africa will not be solved in the medium to long term solely through short-term measures. we all want to change lives and we all want to create stable communities in east africa. to do this, in conjunction with providing relief now, we have to look at how we implement long-term measures in terms of quality education, water and health promotion projects, in order to make life better. one northern ireland-based organisation called fields of life is currently engaged in these fundamental building blocks in several african countries. i feel that we should be supporting this work, allowing this delivery to expand, and putting in the vital infrastructure that africa needs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, next week, when the un meets in new york, it is really important that we send a clear message on tackling non-communicable diseases. i think that all of us in this house can agree that the ever-increasing rise in cancer, heart disease, diabetes and stroke, amongst many other diseases, is devastating lives and families across europe. it needs to be addressed urgently. we should not just focus on rhetoric. we should focus on the action that we can take here in the european parliament. over the next year, our main weapon against non-communicable diseases will be an effective revision of the tobacco products directive. tobacco use is the biggest cause of preventable deaths. it kills one in ten people worldwide. half of all regular smokers will be killed by the product that they are using. this is an issue of epidemic proportions and needs to be treated as such. if we implement the aims of the framework convention on tobacco control and use measures that have been proven by other countries to be extremely effective, such as standardising packaging and restricting the use of additives and flavourings, we could see a decline in tobacco use across europe, especially among young people, saving thousands of lives. in these difficult times of austerity, does it not make sense to tackle a problem which is costing european governments up to eur 100 billion each and every year? the cost of treating the huge host of preventable diseases caused by tobacco is astronomical. it just does not make sense. that is why it is so disappointing to hear that there is a delay in the commission bringing this proposal forward. we need this proposal at the beginning of 2012, as promised. it really does question our commitment when we hesitate to take action on one of the biggest causes of death and disease amongst our citizens.
mr president, i too am very pleased that we are having this debate and that the commission will be represented at the un summit. i would like to pay tribute to the ncd alliance of ngos, which has contributed so much to achieving this result. like others, including the commissioner, i stress how much we need to make prevention the cornerstone of our approach, together with research on prevention, treatment and also a possible cure. like mrs schaldemose, i am particular focused on diabetes, as i have a family member with type 1 diabetes. it is of course very important across the whole range of ncds to talk about contributory factors such as smoking, diet, obesity, lifestyle and so on, but can i just put in a plea to remember that tiny babies can have type 1 diabetes, and they have not had a chance to smoke and become obese and so on. we are talking not only about premature deaths, but also about the cost of living with diabetes and other ncds, not only to individuals but to our healthcare systems. so this relates to the fiscal crisis. if we do not do something about the epidemic of ncds, it is going to be extremely burdensome. we must move beyond platitudes to specific actions with timetables and targets. we must not use the ‘common umbrella’, as mrs schaldemose has said, as an excuse for inaction on particular diseases. so i also welcome the pledge of the danish presidency – whichever party is in charge – to focus in particular on diabetes.
madam president, i know we have spent a lot of money on these new machines but my voting machine voted before i had a chance to touch it; very sophisticated, but perhaps not appropriate.
madam president, when we were preparing for the military action in libya i made a speech from this place cautioning against intervention. i was one of the very small number of british conservatives who were sceptical about military action, but the last thing i want to do is to be in the invidious position of so many anti-war commentators who have talked themselves into half hoping for the worst, so as to be able to say ‘i told you so’. we saw the same thing during the iraq war; it is an extremely unattractive phenomenon. as polonius says, ‘beware of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, bear’t that the opposed may beware of thee.’ so i am delighted now that we have got rid of a baleful regime which had committed repeated acts of war against our country – the lockerbie atrocity, the murder of yvonne fletcher, the funding of the ira. i hope for a peaceful, pluralist and democratic outcome in libya. one point: if and when colonel gaddafi is caught, he should be tried in libya and not in the international court, which i will not dignify with the name of kangaroo court since it lacks the two very real economies of that kind of tribunal, namely speed and cheapness. libya will not demonstrate its fitness by handing him over to an international bureaucracy. it will demonstrate its fitness by trying him and giving him justice in its own sovereign territory.
madam president, i think many of us were sceptical about the aims of the action to try and remove the gaddafi regime. even those who were sceptical have now had to admit that the action undertaken by nato, on the initiative of the uk prime minister david cameron, so far appears to be achieving what he set out to achieve – namely, trying to remove the gaddafi regime. we hope that we will see the end of the socialist gaddafi regime and his henchmen, but as we try to help rebuild libya let us make sure that we give the right level of support. there is always lots of advice available at the beginning of a rebuilding exercise, but let us not forget the principles on which the most successful and prosperous countries are built. let us help with projects on liberty, on democracy, on freedom, on human rights, on free trade, on property rights, on open markets so that the people of libya can benefit from this change of regime, create prosperity locally and finally forget all the ill deeds that were done by the last regime.
madam president, the title of this report is a satirist’s dream: ‘closing the gap between anti-corruption law and reality’. i could fill my 60 seconds talking about the 18 years’ worth of unaudited accounts or the bazillions that are squandered on agriculture and foreign aid, boondoggles, or the tillack case where, instead of any of the alleged fraudsters being arrested, it was the journalist trying to find out about them who found himself banged up by the police. i could talk about the gbp 6.6 million spent last year by european commissioners simply on entertainment and luxury gifts and hotels. i could talk about the wonderful spectacle of president van rompuy and commissioner ashton flying to the same meeting in russia in separate private jets leaving brussels within four hours of each other. instead i shall confine myself to saying this. these things happen not because the eu attracts particularly bad people. of course it attracts some bad people – man is fallen – and like all institutions it contains those who give in to temptation. it happens rather because there is no link between taxation, representation and expenditure at brussels level. it was milton friedman who said there are two kinds of money in the world: there is your money and there is my money. the trouble in the eu is it is all your money, hence negligence, corruption, fraud and what we see before us today.
madam president, when you look at the title of this report, ‘closing the gap between anti-corruption law and reality’, it clearly expresses that there is a problem with perception. i think one of the things that the eu must bear in mind is this perception of corruption within its own ranks. when you look at the fact that the accounts have continuously not been signed off by the court of auditors or given a clean bill of health for many years; when you look at the fact that countries that appear to have voted the wrong way in referenda are then asked to vote again until they get the right result; and when you see budget negotiations which are out of touch with the reality in member states – member states are looking to cut spending and tighten their belts, but we see budget negotiations at the eu level actually asking for an increase in spending – there is clearly a gap between the perception and the reality of the economic situation. there are demands for greater transparency when it comes to our documents. as a previous speaker said, if we do not tackle this problem the eu’s legitimacy and reputation is at stake.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the eu action plan for implementing key recommendations on trade. i urge the commission to launch negotiations with moldova without further delay on including the deep and comprehensive free trade area as an integral part of the association agreement in order to promote full political and economic integration of moldova with the eu and to enable moldova to attract foreign investment and become more productive in order to end its dependence on remittances and make the transition to an export-competitive market economy. i recognise, nevertheless, that moldova should first demonstrate that it has enough capacity to adapt its legal and economic structures to the demands of trade integration with the eu.
in writing. − i supported this resolution on libya and call on the new libyan authorities to build a unified, democratic and pluralist state in which human rights, fundamental freedoms and justice will be guaranteed.
in writing. − i fully support the calls made in this resolution for the new libyan authorities to build a unified and democratic state where human rights and justice are guaranteed for all. the national transitional council must put in place measures to address issues such as food and water shortages, whilst at the same time fulfilling its responsibility to make libya a better place to live for everyone, including women, young people and any immigrants that are still in libya. in order to do this, frozen libyan assets must be released so that the ntc can ensure that it delivers the governance that libya needs. there is a huge opportunity now for a truly democratic state to take the place of an oppressive regime, but to ensure this is able to flourish there must be a full national reconciliation process and having an eu diplomatic office in tripoli would certainly assist in achieving this.
in writing. − if i had had the opportunity to vote on b7-0483/2011, i should have voted for it. it condemned the repressive and violent actions of the syrian government but it also expressed concern about the increased presence amongst protesters of armed islamist forces with smuggled weapons inciting jihad and shooting at security forces, which threatens all-out civil war along sectarian lines. however, the resolution on which we had the opportunity to vote simply condemned the actions of the syrian government without mentioning the armed islamist forces. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. − i fully support this resolution in which parliament reiterates its call for an independent, transparent and effective investigation into the killings, arrests, arbitrary detention and alleged forced disappearances and instances of torture by the syrian security forces, in order to ensure that the perpetrators of such acts are held to account, and welcomes in this context the recent resolution adopted by the un human rights council calling for an independent international commission of inquiry to be dispatched to syria to investigate all allegations of violations of international human rights law committed by the regime since march 2011 in order to establish the facts and circumstances of these crimes and violations, identify those responsible and ensure that the perpetrators are held accountable.
in writing. − whilst it is of great value to have a coordinated approach and cooperation of criminal investigations and strategy between member state and law enforcement agencies at an eu level in order to fight corruption, we do not believe that a harmonised eu criminal system is necessary in order to achieve success in this area, and neither do we believe that large scale deregulation and privatisation increases the risks of corruptive practices, and that we must concentrate our efforts equally upon the private and public sectors.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission to prioritise the fight against corruption.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the famine in east africa but was very disappointed that amendments drawing attention to the link between food commodity speculation and famine were defeated.
in writing. − the resolution that was passed to step up the emergency response to the famine in the horn of africa has my full support. money is desperately needed in this area to provide essential food and healthcare services for around 13 million people whose lives are threatened by the drought. this new funding will help boost emergency aid so that any further worsening of humanitarian conditions can be prevented. the european parliament condemns the actions of the al-shabab, an islamist militant group in somalia that obstructs the hard-working aid agencies from reaching those most in need. in addition to this, this resolution calls for an increase in aid to be allocated for agricultural production as this provides an essential long-term investment in building a sustainable infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recommends that the member states establish national non-communicable disease (ncd) plans, in particular on the four most common ncds, by 2013, with resources commensurate with the significance of the ncd burden, and set up a global high-level coordination mechanism for action on ncds.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and would stress that wireless broadband services contribute substantially to economic recovery and growth, and that a sufficient and efficiently managed spectrum is necessary to respond to increasing consumer demand both in terms of capacity and coverage.
author. − mr president, the current situation in belarus is truly deplorable. given that it is twenty years since the collapse of the soviet union, the fact that lukashenko to this day, and on the continent of europe, deems appropriate the use of brutal force, persecution and harassment in order to quash peaceful dissidence within his country can no longer be tolerated. the behaviour of the minsk regime last year post-elections was also deplorable. it is therefore the strong desire of this house and my group, the ecr, that belarus should follow the path of all former soviet european countries, that democracy is allowed to reign and that eventually it can rejoin the european family of nations where it truly belongs. it is clear from the size of the protest that took place after the elections that the general belarusian public is more than ready for this to happen, but in order for such a transition to take place the message that the eu must give out it is a strong and united one. the ecr group believes that not only must we continue with our discussions with the democratic opposition in order to strengthen a sense of common accountability, we must also demonstrate through our actions, including targeted sanctions against the regime, that the situation will not be allowed to prevail. we therefore call on the international community as a whole to freeze financial assistance to the regime until all those who have been detained unlawfully for opposing it – human rights defenders such as the case today of ales bialiatski, opposition leaders and journalists, as well as presidential candidates, and all their supporters – are immediately released and cleared of all charges. it was sad today not to have belarus mps with us at the first meeting of the euronest parliamentary assembly, as belarus as a country, with its cultured and educated people, amounts to so much more than lukashenko and his thuggish henchmen.
author. − mr president, despite south sudan’s independence, there remains some unresolved disputes and tensions between the north and the south, centring on three areas: blue nile state and kordofan and the troubled region of abyei. these areas possess, perhaps unsurprisingly, significant oil reserves and large water supplies. there is a complex ethnic and tribal mix inhabiting these key regions, with different allegiances towards juba and khartoum, so the 2005 cpa gave specific provisions for a popular referendum in blue nile state and south kordofan, enabling residents of these districts to determine their own future. regrettably, the pro-khartoum governor in kordofan suspended the planned referendum, causing skirmishes between the spla and the sudanese army, the saf, which then invaded, causing 6 000 people to become internally displaced. the security situation in southern kordofan and blue nile state has deteriorated alarmingly in recent weeks and there is targeting of the ethnic nuba group which is pro south sudan. the ecr group condemns without reserve the saf cross-border invasion into southern kordofan and blue nile state. the international criminal court indicted war criminal president bashir, and his regime should, without delay, now declare a unilateral two-week ceasefire to prevent further bloodshed. khartoum must also honour its legal obligations by adhering to all the provisions set out in the cpa of 2005. the eu has been taking a leading role in the current crisis. the high representative has joined the un secretary-general and the president of this house in condemning the downward spiral of violence. these festering, unresolved territorial disputes and tribal conflicts risk undoing all the good work of the international community and risk a return to all-out war between the north and the south.
author. − mr president, as a supporter of this parliament's meps for a democratic eritrea group, the continued detention of dawit isaak saddens me a great deal. mr isaak has been incarcerated incommunicado since 23 september 2001, for over ten years, and in all probability is being held in inhumane conditions without the hope of a fair trial, the requirement for which is technically enshrined in article 17 of the eritrean constitution. president afewerki has stated publicly and disgracefully on national television that there will be no formal charges brought against him, nor will there be any prospect of release for mr isaak. this demonstrates asmara’s fundamental lack of respect for due legal process and the rule of law. regrettably, isaak is not the only political prisoner in eritrea. afewerki’s authoritarian rule has seen journalists, opposition politicians and christian groups imprisoned or tortured, and all on trumped-up charges. there have been no elections in eritrea since its independence in 1993, and all political parties save the ruling people’s front for democracy and justice are banned; rather curious the word ‘justice’ in that case, is it not? the eritrean government should release or bring to a fair trial all of its prisoners held on political grounds, including mr isaak. the cotonou acp agreement requires respect for fundamental human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. eritrea does not measure up to these basic standards. i have long called for eritrea's suspension from the cotonou agreement under article 96, which stipulates that a signatory state should no longer be party to the significant economic benefits from the eu which that agreement confers if it abuses with impunity the fundamental values of the european union – which clearly eritrea is doing – and, most importantly, fundamental human rights. so my question to commissioner malmström is: why do we not suspend the acp agreement with eritrea, as has been done in the past in the cases of fiji and zimbabwe, which also abused human rights?
author. − mr president, mrs malmström did not answer my specific question. she makes all these complaints which the whole house supports regarding the atrocities and the brutality of the regime in asmara. why then do we not consider article 96 to suspend the cotonou agreement? that is somewhere where we have serious leverage over the regime and yet we have refused to implement it with eritrea, but have done with zimbabwe and fiji. could she answer that question specifically, please?
on behalf of the ecr group. – world-class research funding needs to occur within a broader eu policy framework that supports economic growth and increases our global competitiveness. all too often, companies refer to conflicting policies in the eu. last week i visited ge healthcare in wales where they research and commercialise state-of-the-art stem cell lines for pharmaceutical testing. the use of in vitro cell lines will provide a valuable alternative to animal testing but needs all 27 member states to adopt a common set of rules for their use. i was also visited last week by the cord blood association, which supports key eu research but believes that policies could be better coordinated so that a european depositary might be a reality in the future for medical research samples to rival the nih in the us. a single set of rules would assist our research competitiveness, and interaction between leading industrial players in europe and our academic institutions should be the norm as we pursue a competitive agenda. for our research and innovation to be world class it must remain competitive and withstand at all times peer review.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. we agree that funding for research helps us confront great challenges like health and ageing, and energy, food and water security, and we also agree that too often we have allowed bright ideas to be left in the lab or exploited elsewhere: so supporting innovation and development can help competitiveness and growth. through collaboration with industry, the eu research funding has encouraged significant private sector investment, and a balanced programme should support small companies and individual pockets of excellence while also recognising the crucial role played by larger companies and leading universities. we must not dumb down excellence, and while europe can complement member states’ own programmes, it should not constrain them. simplification remains key: less form-filling, more research. and commissioner, just last week i met with many scientists in my region who raised serious questions about the impartiality of the peer review in certain sectors, so this is something we need to look at. finally, while increasing the investment in research is welcome, i am afraid i do not support picking random figures out of thin air.
madam president, it is self-evident that research and development need to be facilitated in all states. they are more and more necessary when our economies are subjected to unfair competition from low-wage emerging economies. the only way in which the high-wage developed world can hope to compete with these emerging economies is to be ahead of them in new technology. however, the benefits of this research and innovation will be blunted if the fruits of the research are not protected by an effective patents system, preferably in the member states. emerging economies in the far east are the worst offenders for copying western technology in blatant disregard of patent rights. jcb, the manufacturer of excavation machinery, has had to take action against three far eastern manufacturers for product copying. the manufacturers in question were brazenly exhibiting copied products at the bauma construction equipment show in munich.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i rise to speak in favour of ms koppa’s resolution. like many others, i have witnessed the twists and turns in the quest for palestinian statehood in the united nations, and like many others i wish them well and hope for a fair and just solution. in speaking today on the koppa report it is, for me, not a question of being anti-israel or pro-palestine. no: it is more one of championing justice and fair play. we must hope that peace soon comes to this troubled region. i spent a few days in the gaza strip this summer seeing for myself the abject poverty in which gazans have to live. i listened to the pleas of mothers and fathers unable to feed or educate their children properly, and of doctors and workers who have to work with the most basic of materials. i listened to teachers and their students, refugees and ngos, and i heard countless stories of stalled business deals, of jobs lost through lack of raw materials, of social breakdown and the strangulation of trade by the israeli blockade. it became very clear to me that in gaza and in the west bank economic recovery and social recovery go hand in hand. we have some misgivings in our group about the nature of the agreement, the dislocation of development in social and environmental protection, and some of the practical difficulties around identifying the sources of products. the koppa report will not solve all the problems between israel and palestine; but it is an important marker along the way. as the rapporteur states, opening the eu market to palestinian products is only the first stage in the construction of a palestinian state. i urge you to join us in the vote tomorrow in parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu-taiwan trade by daniel caspary, laima liucija andrikienė, paweł zalewski, gabriele albertini, joachim zeller, ioannis kasoulides, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats), metin kazak, kristiina ojuland, marielle de sarnez, niccolò rinaldi, silvana koch-mehrin, alexandra thein, marietje schaake, ramon tremosa i balcells, sir graham watson, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, robert sturdy, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists (o-000197/2011 – b7-0438/2011)).
author. − mr president, as chairman of the ep-taiwan friendship group in this parliament, i strongly believe that the eu should pursue a free-trade type agreement with taiwan, which will probably be called something like ‘trade enhancement measures’. such an agreement is in the long-term interests of both sides, and the cake grows bigger for both as synergies and opportunities for joint ventures and free flow of investments can carry on in both directions. i recently had the pleasure of trying some of their excellent single malt whisky, so scotland beware! competition is on its way! taiwan is a democracy with a vibrant free market and a largely export-driven economy. therefore i urge the commission not to place taiwan in some sort of queue for negotiating an agreement. already we know how successful the visa-free agreement has been – it should have been in place for some months now. if other countries already discussing a free-trade deal with the eu are falling behind, taiwan should not be penalised as a result. as and when taiwan is ready to negotiate, the eu should respond positively and judge this country solely on its economic merits, without taking into consideration what is going on in other asean countries or any possible political objections from china. the economic imperative is strong, but so too is the political imperative. although taiwan has made great progress in recent years towards stronger economic ties with the mainland by negotiating a successful, albeit controversial, economic cooperation framework agreement (ecfa) with the prc, taiwan does not want to become over-dependent on one economic partner. the eu can therefore help to ensure taiwan’s long-term economic prosperity by helping taiwan to diversify its global economic perspectives. i would specifically like to ask the commissioner: what timetable does the commission foresee for negotiations with taiwan? given the unusual status of taiwan in terms of eu legal recognition, under what legal basis and what country name will the negotiations take place? and which sectors in taiwan and the european union will, in the opinion of the commission, benefit most from a possible fta?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i should first make it crystal clear that the united kingdom would be much better off if we, as a nation state, were able to negotiate our own trade agreements and thereby have trade arrangements in place that can conform, first and foremost, to the needs of our country. on taiwan, uk representatives should do what we can to make certain that any proposed trade agreements with taiwan – which is a democracy and a vibrant one –are not handicapped and hobbled by an extraneous political agenda placed on them by the commission or, for that matter, by parliament. we from britain of course want to retain friendship with china – indeed britain recognised china as far back as 1949 – but we should not, and must not, neglect future trade agreements with taiwan.
author. − mr president, the point i want to make is that, because i was called to speak before the commission, i was not able to react to the commission statement. basically i would like to say that my group is, of course, disappointed by the announcement that there will not be any negotiations for a free trade agreement or anything like that. but if there are to be sectoral bilateral agreements, is this a way for the commission to circumvent the rights of this parliament to be involved with the legislative process in enacting these agreements? if there were a fourth free trade agreement, then parliament would be involved with the assent process. if there are only individual agreements by sector, is this a way for the commission to stitch the whole thing up without it going through a full hearing before this parliament? that is a question for the commissioner to respond to.
mr tannock, we will classify that as a catch-the-eye intervention.
thank you, commissioner. we all recognise the difficulties of getting to strasbourg. may i just say that i, too, am a friend of taiwan. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by carlo fidanza, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on europe, the world’s no 1 tourist destination – a new political framework for tourism in europe (2010/2206(ini)) - (a7-0265/2011).
that concludes the group speakers. i am now leaving the chair but can i just say that i was the first european parliament rapporteur on tourism in 1984, all those years ago! keep it up.
mr president, climate change, pollution and co2 levels are a matter of constant debate in this chamber. today, i am going to take it one step further and talk about great rivers, which all member states have, and in particular the river in my constituency of london, which is the river thames. the phrase ‘eu targets’ usually fills me with fear and trepidation. as is becoming more evident, common targets do not always work in a union made up of individual members. however, i am pleased to note that in my constituency of london the water quality in the river thames is well on its way to meeting the goal set by the european water framework directive. the british government has made cleaning our rivers a priority, with a £110 million grant allocated to that objective. i hope other member states are taking similar measures to reverse water pollution and thus to safeguard wildlife and human health against contaminated water supplies. whilst the eu can come up with goals and targets for our environment, it is vital that member states follow the uk example and take control of their own environmental projects.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by dieter-lebrecht koch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on european road safety 2011-2020 (2010/2235(ini)) (a7-0264/2011).
madam president, i would just like to say thank you to dieter koch for the way we have been able to develop these road safety ideas in shadows’ meetings. halving the casualty figures is a commendable target. as has just been said, every single death is a personal tragedy for someone. i am particularly pleased that we have managed to tackle the three major causes of accidents: alcohol, drugs and speed. we have got here a uniform blood-alcohol level for the whole eu; we have a strong recommendation for 20 mile-an-hour zones or 30 kilometre-an-hour zones in urban areas; we have got safe routes to schools; we have got measures to avoid lorry blind spots. we all have a chance to improve road safety for all road users. please vote tomorrow to make that happen.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by nirj deva, on behalf of the committee on development, on financing of reinforcement of dam infrastructure in developing countries (2010/2270(ini)) (a7-0213/2011).
rapporteur. − madam president, quite rightly we debated for the last half an hour or so the causes and prevention of unnecessary deaths on european roads. my report on dam infrastructures in developing countries is geared to the same subject: preventing unnecessary deaths from floods that are caused by glacier retreats in the hindu kush himalayan range and also in latin america. flying in a helicopter at 18 000 feet at the top of the himalayas and at the everest base camp, i saw beautiful water-bound lakes below me. they were the most dangerous things i have seen for a long time. i then met with icimod, the international centre for integrated mountain development, which has identified 8 000 glacial lakes in the hindu kush himalayas alone, 203 of which they have declared to be extremely dangerous. two weeks ago nepal experienced an earthquake, not reported in europe but certainly reported in asia, where many people died. this earthquake measured 9.69 on the richter scale. thank goodness those dams did not break. the reason why these glacial lakes are being created and why natural glacial lakes with natural moraines, as they call them, are being created is that the glaciers are melting faster at certain periods in the year. the water from these glaciers normally feeds the greatest rivers in the world – the ganges, the yellow river, the brahmaputra, the darya – and they feed billions of people. in fact, 1.3 billion people eat rice and grow wheat on the river banks of these greatest agricultural assets in the world. however, because of accelerated glacier melting and the natural accumulation of water in these 8 000 glacial lakes, they are bursting and flash flooding, and we now have periods of enormous floods, as we experienced recently in pakistan when 20 million people – 20 million people! – were made homeless and many thousands of people starved. 500 000 people had to be fed emergency food and the wheat crop was destroyed for whole periods of years. again the floods returned to pakistan this july and, as we speak, there are vast areas of pakistan inundated with water; parts of india are inundated with water. the routine, managed drawdown of water on these great rivers of the ganges, on the himalayan range, is no longer predictable. water is accumulating in the oddest places; i have seen it. now it is impossible, i think, for us to repair these moraines because they are naturally formed, but we can control the outlet of water by alternative mitigation methods, siphons and the construction of open channels and tunnels in order to lower the water level in the glacial lakes, and by controlling the water flow into the local river system to use the water as a reservoir for use. there is much work to be done and i call for an international agency of the united nations to be created, through the eu’s support, so that india, pakistan, china, nepal, bhutan and other countries can come together under the auspices of the un.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011).
the next item is the report by gabriele zimmer, on behalf of the committee on development, on an eu policy framework to assist developing countries in addressing food security challenges (2010/2100(ini)) - (a7-0284/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european schools’ system (2011/2036(ini)) - (a7-0293/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011).
the next item is the report by michael theurer, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on absorption of structural and cohesion funds: lessons learnt for the future cohesion policy of the eu (2010/2305(ini)) (a7-0287/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 27 september 2011). written statements (rule 149)
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh thuarascáil elisabetta gardini agus gabhaim buíochas le bean gardini as ucht na dea-oibre. gabhaim buíochas léi ach go háirithe as an gcomhoibriú a rinne sí linne agus í ag glacadh moltaí agus leasuithe s’againne san áireamh. is páirt thábhachtach d’fhorbairt inbhuanaithe é laghdú tubaiste. má phleanálaimid ár bhforbairt ar bhealach a laghdaíonn an riosca de thubaiste, is féidir líon mór beathaí a shábháil. is féidir léirscrios sóisialta, eacnamaíochta agus comhshaoil, de dheasca guaiseanna nádúrtha, a laghdú agus, de réir a chéile, an léirscrios a bhaineann le tubaiste teicneolaíoch agus comhshaoil a laghdú lena chois. tosaíonn freagairt tubaiste le cosc agus go hullmhacht. gríosaím an coimisiún eorpach agus na ballstáit chun níos mó infheistíochta a dhéanamh i laghdú tubaiste agus chun éifeachtúlacht freagairt tubaiste a fheabhsú de mheon dlúthpháirtíochta. is iad soiléireacht, comhsheasmhacht agus comhleanúnachas na príomhcholúin ar a dtógtar córas freagartha tubaiste eorpach atá oibritheach láidir. tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh comhordú cuí ann le go dtig linn cúnamh éifeachtúil daonnúil a sholáthar. ach caithfear cloí le prionsabail dhaonnúla thábhachtacha chomh maith – neamhchlaontacht, neodracht agus neamhspleáchas san áireamh. caithfimid a chinntiú go gcuirtear i bhfeidhm an dlí daonnúil idirnáisiúnta. is gá dúinn a chinntiú nach dtéann cúrsaí polaitiúla agus straitéiseacha i bhfeidhm ar chinntí maidir le dáileadh cúnaimh. caithfimid a chinntiú nach mbeidh fóirithint tubaiste choíche faoi réir leasanna straitéiseacha trádála ná polaitiúla an ae. ba chóir cúnamh daonnúil an ae a sholáthar beag beann ar gach machnamh polaitiúil agus ag an am céanna, cloí le prionsabail dhaonnúla aontaithe idirnáisiúnta.
madam president, i rise with some humility as representing a country which managed to elect a prime minister and chancellor of the exchequer, a scotsman, the only scotsman in the world who actually does not care how much money he spends: it is an interesting phenomenon! so as i say, i rise with some humility. however, i look forward with the great british sense of humour which is one thing nobody can take away from us in this place which gave us an energy policy, an employment policy, a fisheries policy, an agricultural policy that have been – as almost everything that this place has done has been – a complete and total disaster. we are now contemplating a response to disasters, most of which of course we create for ourselves in this place. so i can say i look forward to seeing how this develops, how it goes forward in the future, and i am just interested to see what kind of pig’s breakfast you are going to make of this one!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, i am speaking in this debate first of all as the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, but also on behalf of my group as well. i welcome this extremely comprehensive – and, i am pleased to say, very well-structured – report by daniel caspary, particularly as it incorporates many of the points that my committee made. in particular i draw attention to the first clause of our report, which you incorporated in full and which in a way encapsulates our engagement with the issue. the single market act proposal on regulatory convergence is fully endorsed by this report. i think nothing could illustrate better the engagement of my committee with the trade process. we have had the pleasure of welcoming the commissioner to come and talk to us because he knows our engagement with that. non-tariff barriers are going to become more and more difficult to deal with and they will be the big areas of action, as the commissioner already knows. our work in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is dealing with non-tariff barriers within the single market all the time. we do not exist in isolation. that is why we have also recently visited both india and china to get an idea about how the impact of the internal market will work there. i want to pick up two points in particular because i think they are important, forward-looking points. i would say to mr caspary that we welcome inclusion of these but i do not think they have had enough emphasis. the first one is the question of standardisation. we must collaborate more with our trading partners to avoid inventing the new barriers to trade in developing technology areas – things like nano technology, smart grids and electric cars. why should we be inventing new barriers there? secondly, innovation, which is linked to that. there is hardly anything in here about the need for encouraging science technology collaboration in innovative products. that is a key imperative. i conclude with this point: trade for growth – unlocking the benefits of trade – is indispensible to growth in the european economy. i hope that trade issues will be absolutely on the agenda of the forthcoming european council where we start talking about growth in the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let me add my congratulations to daniel caspary for his report and for his cooperation. i welcome the report and the commission’s communication on the future of eu trade policy. as the rapporteur points out, the harsh reality is that the eu share of global trade is declining, and without action it will continue to decline. thirty-six million jobs in the european union depend on external trade. unless we boost our exports, there will be no economic recovery. job creation and poverty alleviation at home and abroad must be at the core of our global trade strategy. the report acknowledges, as mrs saïfi has just said, that trade is not an end in itself. it can of course be a driver for growth, which in turn fuels prosperity and rising living standards, but trade is also influenced by, and can influence, human rights standards, labour standards, environmental standards, and they must be key components of our trade policy, not as an alternative to trade liberalisation but as a key component of it. we need policy coherence between our trade policy, our development policy, our environmental, social and labour policies. the promotion of fair trade is already benefiting around 7.5 million people across 58 developing countries. i hope the commission will listen to parliament and continue to promote fair-trade policies. the key message i want to take out of this report, though, is that, across the groups, we have managed to create a good framework for europe’s trade policy. the test, however, is not in creating such a framework, the test is in applying that framework to the individual free trade agreements that we are about to debate, the individual legislation such as the gsp legislation that is going to come before this parliament. unless we put the contents of this report into action in our individual free trade agreements, the individual pieces of trade legislation, it will end up being a meaningless piece of paper.
the next item is question time. this is the second new format question time, an experimental process, and i am going to read a brief instruction. the topic is eu trade and third country relations. i will interpret this topic as widely as possible but i should warn you that if your question is off topic and deals, for example, with the common agricultural policy, you are liable to be cut off. i would also like to remind you of the ground rules which have been agreed for this new formula. each member has one minute to put his or her question, and 30 seconds for a supplementary after the commissioner’s reply. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering, and if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute speaking time. we welcome this morning commissioner de gucht, our former colleague, mr piebalgs, mrs georgieva and mr füle.
before mr de gucht answers, could i suggest to colleagues and to my colleagues here on the bench that, once a questioner has been identified, the staff acknowledge this so that you do not have to keep waving.
member of the commission. − we keep that in mind, of course, when we negotiate free trade agreements. obviously we would not continue negotiations with a country where there is, for example, a revolution. to give you a very recent example, we had negotiations with libya on a cooperation agreement and, as soon as the problems occurred in libya, we immediately stopped those negotiations. we are now considering how we can take up those negotiations again now that the situation in libya has changed.
member of the commission. - mr berman, you know that we have concluded an agreement with colombia. i think that this will be put to the european parliament sometime next year and you will have to give your opinion on it. it is my personal conviction that this agreement can help to stabilize peace in colombia, that, in other words, the economic progress which should result from it can make a positive contribution. i know there are human rights issues. moreover, the agreement expressly states that respect for human rights is one of the substantive elements of the agreement and that if we find, and you find, that these human rights are being violated in a systematic way, we can immediately stop the agreement, without even giving any further justification. in conclusion, i think that this agreement can make a positive contribution. i am convinced that the colombian government is acting in good faith in its efforts to limit and eliminate human rights violations. i am also convinced that if problems should arise, we have included the right means in the agreement to deal with them.
member of the commission. − we have made linking relief, rehabilitation and development a priority for cooperation with commissioner piebalgs. the way we approach it is at three levels: a strategy level, an operational modalities level and then a country-specific level. strategically, we launched a high-level dialogue on humanitarian action in development in washington just a couple of days ago, and made a commitment to link the work we do in protracted-crisis and in disaster-prone countries – some 30 countries in the world fall into this category – in order to make that a strategic area for collaboration. in terms of instruments, we are looking at how we can better align the instruments we have on the humanitarian side, which work fast, with instruments on the development side, which sometimes require more time. we will be making appropriate proposals in this area. i will give two examples at the country-specific level: côte d’ivoire, where after the crisis we committed eur 60 million for relief and eur 180 million for development, viewing those operations in synergy; and the horn of africa, where very clearly we need to do more to build resilience in the countries concerned.
member of the commission. − actually it was about linking relief and development. when we talk about somalia we should remember that mali and niger have also been affected. we have actually already used this cooperation between the humanitarian aid services and development services to anticipate that challenge. in mali and niger, because of our common work, we can manage or diminish considerably the risk of famine there. as regards colombia, i think the question mr berman has asked is very challenging because when you commit you need to analyse all elements of the relations with the country and the processes of the country. for this reason i think that, when we enter into relations of whatever kind in the future, all the aspects should be analysed before we go in. we are doing this in development policy with regard to which aid modality to use.
mr president, i understand that the commission is currently challenging canada at the wto over ontario province’s use of local content requirements for renewable energy sources. i very much welcome that, because an open global market for green goods is vital for eu manufacturers, but i am concerned to hear that ukraine recently ratified law no 8231, which also introduces local content requirement of 50% for wind and for solar. will the commission also be challenging this at the wto and will it be raising it in the context of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement? surely this move by ukraine contravenes the competition and regulatory convergence chapters which are in that agreement?
member of the commission. − it is a fact of life that ukraine has been introducing legislation under which the local content for wind turbines would go down to 15% as of 1 january 2012 and then rise again to 30% in 2013, and to 50% in 2014. obviously, this is unacceptable to us. we are, as you know, in a negotiating round with ukraine on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta), and one of the main elements of that agreement is that policies would be modelled on eu directives. the eu directive concerned relates to public procurement and says very clearly that, unless justified by the subject matter of the contract, technical specifications shall not refer to a specific make or source or a specific origin or production with the effect of favouring or eliminating certain undertakings or certain products. this means that once the dcfta is concluded – in any case as regards the european union – ukraine will not be in a position to uphold that legislation.
thank you for that helpful response. i wonder whether commissioner füle has anything to say on the ukraine agreement, given his recent comments about the charges against tymoshenko.
mr president, commissioners georgieva and de gucht will recall putting forward a very comprehensive package to assist pakistan following the flooding which took place there some time ago. we are, of course, now witnessing a repetition of what happened previously, but the initial package that we put in place is still blocked at the wto. i note that there is a trade delegation from pakistan visiting india today for official negotiations and i understand that the indians are due to put forward a proposal whereby they would withdraw their objections at wto level. is that something that you would push for and congratulate the indians on and welcome their support if that was to happen today? secondly, in the foreign affairs council yesterday, the eu-india free trade agreement was due to be raised. was it raised and if it was, what was said?
mr president, i thank the commissioners for the rather comprehensive answers that they have provided. the eu-india free trade agreement has now been ongoing for some considerable time. whilst we are extremely ambitious about what we are seeking to achieve, what sort of time frame can this parliament now start to expect? is there a fuller role that we, as parliamentarians, can play to try and bring about a successful conclusion to those negotiations?
mr higgins, i am glad that you made that suggestion. i am sure that all colleagues would agree and after this next question i will read out those who have been put on the list.
we are now half way through and i am going to read out the names i have on the list in front of me here: theocharous, guerrero salom, aylward, kelly, leichtfried, schmidt, albrecht, deva, murphy, morganti, brons, kukan and flašíková. it is highly unlikely that we will get to the bottom of that list but that is the situation.
i was wondering whom to address this question to because my question has development implications but it has also got financial implications. are the commissioners aware that eur 800 billion worth of funds come from the developing countries to european banks and european offshore banks every year? it was recently reported that usd 1.3 trillion, which is the entire debt of italy, has come from india into swiss and european banks as black money. these are staggering figures that we are talking about and they have huge development implications for developing countries, because if that money were to work and remain in those countries, and were a part of those countries’ economies rather than sitting around outside them in our banks, that would have huge implications for development. what are we doing in our trade relationships to prevent corruption from being a part of our trade interaction and our bilateral relations?
quite so, but could we in future start the process of negotiating with our interlocutor partners on the basis of their being corruption-free? after all, india is in flames at the moment over corruption.
member of the commission. − let me give you just one example: under the uribe presidency, a brother of the minister of foreign affairs was suspected of having links with the death squads. the following day he and his sister also – although she had nothing to do with this – were no longer in the government. this is one example of the action that has been taken, and i could give you many more.
member of the commission. − i imagine that you are talking about the export duties on some raw materials. the export duties are on a very limited number of products and they will disappear within a period of 10 years, which means that it is going steadily down and will be zero at the end. i think that we will probably be able to make quite a good agreement in this respect because the safeguard clause too, with respect to those materials, will disappear and will go down to zero over a period of 15 years. this is creating quite an additional amount of space for trading in these materials with ukraine.
member of the commission. − we are taking measures on the demand side within the european union and, of course, there is also the supply side. as you know, china is responsible for the most part. about 60% of all counterfeited goods that are halted at borders are of chinese origin so we are taking the necessary measures at our borders. we are also discussing with china that they should do much more to combat counterfeiting and to implement intellectual property rights. we are having an intellectual property rights dialogue with them, but i must say that up to now the results have not really been convincing.
member of the commission. − as regards the western balkans, the commission has a very useful instrument. the overall enlargement policy is giving us an opportunity, through a number of the chapters, not only chapter 30 which relates to trade, but also other chapters, rules of law and so on, which also benefit the more appropriate business and investment climate in those countries, to work quite efficiently. i think the results prove that too. as regards the western balkans and the european union, you can see that trade exchange between those countries and the european union has actually increased every year by 10%. we are not only keen to develop bilateral relations between the eu and those countries – although our first priority is to bring those countries closer and closer to the european union and make sure that there are no flaws in the approximation to the eu’s rules – but we also support the regional aspect of trade. the commission supports cefta financially and through various projects, which include the western balkans and also moldova. very recently it supported cathy ashton’s efforts to find a solution to the remaining issues between serbia and kosovo over custom stamps.
whilst free trade might be shown in economic textbooks to make the world as a whole richer, would you not agree that trading with countries like china, with an artificially low exchange rate, deliberately depressed wage rates and a brazen disregard for patent rights, leads to unfair competition, job losses and destruction of industry in the developed world, particularly europe? indeed, the conditions and pay rates in china’s factories are inhumane and allow china and its collaborators and multinational companies to use chinese goods to compete unfairly with goods produced in the developed world. has the commission raised the question of working conditions in china with that country and with multinationals?
member of the commission. − mr president, of course our relations and our trade relations with china are a very vast topic. let me just say that, as far as we can see, the biggest problem with china is more with subsidisation than it is with wages. subsidisation in all kinds of ways: cheap loans, cheap land for plants and so on. what we do see is a very rapid wage rise in the coastal area, which is the developed area of china. so the idea that it is merely because of low wages that the chinese can compete on the world market is certainly not correct. there are many elements in play and what we should do instead is look at how we can integrate the chinese development into the world economy and there we have obligations on both sides. we have them on our side. they should also realise that they have their obligations and that they should live up to the wto obligations. when they do not do so we question that, and once we have a decision we also want to see this implemented, but it is a very complex matter and it certainly cannot be reduced to a discussion on wages.
i did not of course attribute it just to depressed wage rates. i mentioned the artificially low exchange rate, also the brazen disregard for patent rights and working conditions generally.
that concludes question time to the commission. we have had this morning questions to all the external affairs commissioners. thank you mr de gucht, mr füle, mrs georgieva, mr piebalgs. the other member of the commission responsible for external affairs will be answering question time in brussels.
i strongly support the revision of the eu-palestine association agreement regarding agricultural and fisheries products. the liberalisation of trade is extremely welcome, bringing opportunities and wealth to both the eu and the palestinian territories on the west bank and gaza strip. palestine is one of our smallest trading partners and granting them duty-free and mostly quota-free access will go some way to improving the lives of their citizens whilst having little or no impact on our own agricultural market. i believe this agreement is a good example of how the eu can do a little bit of good in the world and make a small difference to the condition of the palestinian people. i would urge the israeli government to do rather more to improve the condition of the palestinian people as well, and encourage them to allow freer trade with the territories.
mr president, having read this recommendation, i am happy to support the liberalisation of trade in general. in the current context, of course, the eyes of the world are focused on the palestinian territories. however, i do believe that this house should have the issue of balance, fairness and equality uppermost in its mind. at present, the acca agreement between the european union and israel, signed in may 2010, has come to a standstill as a result of this institution’s reluctance to approve it. it is common knowledge that israel is one of the most advanced countries in the fields of medicine and technology. in postponing approval for this agreement, we are denying european consumers access to a wider range of high-quality medication, and blocking the possibility of lower prices for these products as well as the introduction of innovative technology into the european market.
mr president, if you were badly in debt, if you were overdrawn on your credit card, if you were struggling to meet your mortgage payments, what would you do: spend more, or spend less? the european union has not hesitated to answer that question collectively. it has responded to the debt crisis by a massive increase in debt, forcing additional liabilities on to countries that could not meet their existing liabilities. rather than correcting the malinvestments of the decade of cheap credit, we have rewarded those malinvestments, bailing out, first, banks and then entire countries. and now, that ‘bailout-and-borrow’ policy has reached is apogee. if reports are to be believed, the european stabilisation fund is going to be quadrupled – with yet more borrowing – into a eur 2 million fund: a sum that our minds are not designed to comprehend. that is the logical end of the policy we began on when we started borrowing. and who, ultimately, is going to stand behind this fund? why, the taxpayers of the eurozone: in other words the taxpayers of, among other places, ireland, greece, portugal, spain and italy. ‘my masters, are you mad?’
mr president, today’s vote on food security was very important. i think that political institutions in the developed world that ignore the problems in less-developed regions do so in grave error and show a lack of compassion. however, sometimes i think we in this house miss the point completely. it is important that we assist in food security in developing countries, but it is also important that we actually provide food security for the people that we represent. the national farmers union in the united kingdom has indicated that the united kingdom will be less than 50% self-sufficient in staple food types by 2026 unless production is increased. we in this house talk endlessly about the increase in world population, the effects of climate change, increase in biofuel demand and the increasing demand for western eating habits, yet we have decreased agricultural output and, due to decoupling, provide no incentive to produce food. i urge the commission and parliament to look at these issues, but i am not hopeful. the recent leak from the commission in relation to a 7% regulation for set-aside in the new cap proposals will only restrict food production further.
mr president, over the past number of months the commission has been negotiating with the mercosur bloc to agree a trade policy which would apparently benefit both regions. dg agri has put forward its impact assessments to member states. in the toughest scenario, the eu’s beef sector could see production levels drop by over 150 000 tons, with the producer price for beef falling by over 8%. eu meat production value could fall by almost 3 billion, whilst overall eu agricultural income could drop by 3.2%. the best case scenario is also damaging. there is unfortunately no good news story from these impact assessments. i have voiced this opinion since the very beginning of this process, along with other meps and farming organisations. i have spoken to the commission and highlighted the impact that these decisions would have on northern ireland. now that the commission has carried out this impact assessment, it is important that this is taken on board during the negotiations. however, my fear is that the commission will look at other possible gains. while these are impressive and good for the eu in a time of global recession, eu agriculture must not be sacrificed in this way.
in writing. − i welcome this report. it is an economic opportunity for the region that may bring prosperity and growth. easier access to our market will help to cut poverty. i hope it will bring confidence for the future and more political stability to the west bank and the gaza strip.
in writing. − international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements, yet the court of justice ruled in 2002 that many bilateral air services agreements infringe eu law as they allow a third country to reject or suspend permissions of an air carrier designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and controlled by that member state. i have voted against the implementation of this agreement as an unnecessary infringement into another area of domestic sovereignty. the air space over a country, operation of its airports and thus bilateral air services agreements should be the provision of the member state and related third country alone. creeping jurisdiction in this area of legislation will lead to the commission assuming judicial priority in air services as a whole and open up the floodgates to a raft of laws which may dissuade foreign carriers from utilising uk airports as principal departure hubs.
in writing. − i supported this report and welcome the restoration of a sound legal basis for eu-mexican aviation links. mexico is an important market for the eu and this is a welcome addition to the existing agreements with canada, the us and brazil.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the horizontal agreement with mexico will restore a sound legal basis for the eu’s aviation relations with mexico. this is an important first step in strengthening eu-mexico aviation relations. mexico is an important market for eu carriers with approximately 2.5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of cargo in 2009. in view of the size and importance of the eu-mexico aviation market, the potential for a more comprehensive eu-mexico air transport agreement should be explored. such an agreement could enhance eu-mexico cooperation on aviation matters and expand the opportunities and benefits for industry and consumers both in mexico and the eu. moreover, it would complete the eu-americas open aviation area after the comprehensive agreements already reached with the us, canada and most recently with brazil.
in writing. − i voted against the conclusion of a new protocol governing a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. imports of foreign fish undermine domestic markets but also usurp vital industries in third countries upon which whole communities depend. european waters have been grossly mismanaged by the commission so i morally cannot support the eu now seeking to fish in foreign waters. it is extremely important that if third countries wish to trade with european nations it is done on a member state basis and with competitive freedoms to insure the best deals are secured for both parties. in the uk it should be up to the government to decide, with respect to british freedom of choice, how to create and develop fisheries and with whom negotiations on fisheries agreements should take place.
in writing. − i voted against this report. as we begin our work on the vital reform of the cfp, it is apparent that certain member states have fleets which exceed their national waters' fishing capacity. we should not resolve that issue by exporting this over-capacity to other countries.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal and applaud the fact that this protocol introduces new provisions whereby the payment of the financial contribution or even the implementation of the protocol can be suspended in cases of violation of human rights and democratic principles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the memorandum of cooperation nat-i-9406 between the united states of america and the european union.
in writing. − i am against extending the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the cross-border transportation of euro cash by road between euro-area member states (the main proposal) to the territory of member states that are about to introduce the euro. maybe in certain eurozone countries there is an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover, but, bearing in mind the potential of a future collapse of the common currency and the eurozone, this report is ill timed when focus needs to be on whether or not to maintain the currency, and if so, how to keep it afloat.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, the purpose of which is to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the cross-border transportation of euro cash by road between euro-area member states (the main proposal) to the territory of member states that are about to introduce the euro, since there is normally an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover.
in writing. − it is important that europe takes a lead role in research and innovation. in this regard, the scottish government is playing its part – and initiatives such as the saltire prize should be commended to this house.
in writing. − coherence and comprehensiveness of the european research and innovation system, covering every sphere from universities to the market while making for the more effective involvement of citizens and those who have traditionally remained outside the process, transparency, and defining clear rules: those are the words that could sum up the proposals contained in this report.
in writing. − i voted against the european schools, which were created using taxpayers’ money for children of eu officials. i cannot understand why these children are being educated in a system that, on one hand, is luxuriant and, on another, equips them with a baccalaureate that is not widely recognised elsewhere, rather than following the education systems in their own countries. i do not think it is correct to bring the next generation up with a wholly one-sided view of the european union, when nobody under the age of 54 has had the opportunity to vote for or against uk membership. when i read about a request to national states to promote the inclusion of a specific subject on the background, goals and functioning of the european union and its institutions, to encourage young people to feel more involved in the process of european integration, i was extremely disturbed. i also strongly oppose the fact that these schools will be protected from austerity measures when school children in wales are watching schools close and merge and are being educated in dilapidated buildings with overcrowding in classrooms while the children of privileged eurocrats are given better resources and opportunities.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the european schools were set up to ensure that the children of the european institutions’ staff – who are required to live and work abroad, in a different cultural environment – have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can be reintegrated into a school in their country of origin at any time. these schools are therefore a necessity and not a luxury. it should be borne in mind that education is free in all the member states. the institutions’ staff have no other option than to enrol their children in these schools if they want them to be taught in their mother tongue.
in writing. − the theurer report rightly emphasises the importance of dialogue at regional and local level. these are the levels at which cohesion policy has its main impact and accordingly these are the levels at which decision-making must remain.
in writing. − the rules relating to structural and cohesion funds are complex and therefore difficult to comply with. this causes errors. member states therefore spend a disproportionate amount of time trying to manage and control these errors. the rapporteur takes the view that rules and procedures should be simplified in order to reach higher absorption rates, reduce errors and increase efficiency. at the same time, the right balance should be found between simplification and stability of rules and procedures. i agree with him.
in writing. − this report calls on the commission to bring forward proposals that will allow member states to ensure that the european funds they receive are spent in the most effective way possible. the report emphasises the need for a balance to be struck between the simplification of the rules and ensuring that money is spent correctly, and calls for a more integrated approach to the funding streams available. the commission must now look at how they will take the parliament’s suggestions into account to streamline the often onerous funding rules whilst ensuring the legality and regularity of eu expenditure.
in writing. − i do not support any new legislation from the commission to create a new eu civil protection force based on the eu civil protection mechanism. i dispute that it would be better to combine resources to provide both civilian protection and immediate emergency aid in times of crisis and view such efforts by the eu as attempting to commandeer crisis management, which based upon the situation in the eurozone is not their strength. most concerning is the statement that the commission calls for the need for better coordination among all actors to avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts both on the political and on the operational side – which each should function autonomously in order not to impede the rapid and effective help for the victims of the disaster. this implies that independent charities and nation states will be overruled by the eu who would have final say in how the crisis is managed, under the eu banner, both at home and abroad. voluntary efforts of member states should be a priority and thus the union does not need a 24/7 emergency response centre as a planning and operational coordination platform.
in writing. − we are living at a time when more and more disasters occur. last year, europe had to face a number of very severe disasters, including flash and large-scale floods, heavy storms and forest fires – not to mention the ash cloud after the eruption of the eyjafjallajökull volcano in iceland. outside europe, some very severe disasters struck, causing an enormous number of casualties and huge destruction, namely the haiti earthquake and the pakistan floods. the most damaging oil spill ever happened in the gulf of mexico after the explosion of the deepwater horizon drilling well, and the sahel was hit by severe droughts. now the world is struck by the dramatic happenings in japan, which was hit by a combination of a strong earthquake, a tsunami and a nuclear catastrophe. against the background of the recent dramatic increase in natural and man-made disasters both inside and outside the european union, we need more efficiency at all stages of the european disaster management cycle, including prevention, preparedness, response and recovery, while optimising economic resources during times of austerity.
in writing. − i have nothing against eurozone countries defining what kind of cit-companies may be granted a cross-border licence by a member state, nor have i anything against using the intelligent banknote neutralisation system (ibns). however, the fact that the eu wishes to harmonise the ibns among the participating member states at a time when the euro is failing, the very production of the report, which aims solely to sustain what is in essence the collapsing myth of the euro, is a sheer waste of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. although euro notes and coins were introduced as long ago as 2002, the market for transporting euro cash is still highly fragmented. widely diverging national rules make it very difficult for cash-in-transit (cit) companies to provide cross-border services. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to simplify the regulatory constraints so that euro notes and coins can circulate more easily among the member states that have adopted the currency.
in writing. − i voted against this report. the eu has a duty to ensure that dual-use items do not get into the hands of oppressive regimes which can then use them against their own citizens. whilst the report offers support for human rights, democratic principles and freedom of speech, the controls contained within its provisions do not go far enough.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. export controls of dual-use items, meaning goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes, have been the subject of eu-level actions for around 15 years. controlling the export of dual-use goods is a key for the non-proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass destruction (wmd). given the high volume of trade across the borders of the european union (eu), the enforcement of eu export controls on dual-use goods relies on preventive measures such as the imposition of export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures. export controls have a high impact on the eu's trade policy as they can affect more than 10% of all eu exports. the main eu export control tool is the dual-use regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009, which entered into force on 27 august 2009. this new regulation introduced a number of significant changes to the scope of dual-use export controls in the european union. these include the introduction of controls on brokering activities and transit with regard to dual-use items.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i feel it represents yet another encroachment into domestic affairs and further harmonisation of eu standards in an essential industry to all member states. by introducing the accommodation classification system, the commission are seeking to establish an international mark that endorses the eu to the detriment of regions and local economies. the same is true of the ‘european quality tourism label’ and a ‘european tourism card’. as far as i can see there is no requirement for eu regulation on spa tourism, eu aid to rehabilitate tourist areas in decline or the composition of new directives on package tours. i am strongly against an eu-wide integrated strategy as laid out under the lisbon treaty. individual member states should be free to compete with each other for foreign tourism within and outside europe, without financial obligation to promote one another.
in writing. − the fidanza report correctly notes the importance of tourism to the eu’s economy. in my own country, scotland, tourism directly employs some 200 000 people and contributes over gbp 4 billion to the economy every year. the industry accordingly needs political attention, and i welcome this initiative.
in writing. − tourism is the eu’s third largest socioeconomic activity, accounting for 10 % of gdp and 12 % of total employment figures. it is a crucially important sector since, in addition to furthering the integration and development of less developed regions, it manages to combine growth with ethical and sustainable development in the eu’s member states. it is, moreover, a vital tool in boosting, spreading and promoting our global image. this report makes a number of sensible suggestions for supporting tourism in europe and i voted for it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution to boost europe’s tourism industry because it includes a variety of important proposals. a successful and innovative tourism industry is essential to member states’ economies and provides millions of jobs across the eu. the resolution proposes that tourism focuses on engaging further with cultural, historical, environmental and sport sectors and also suggests harmonising recognition of tourist industry qualifications by member states, which will encourage further eu-wide mobility of workers. allocating subsidies from eu structural funding, as suggested in the resolution, will also boost the tourism sector in declining areas to encourage the development of more innovative tourism services.
in writing. − 14.2 million tourists visit my home constituency of london each year, spending in the region of gbp 8.2 billion annually. these figures are expected to rise when london hosts the olympics next year. promoting london as part of a common european label is foolishness; people come to london to see the unique sights and monuments which make it the most beautiful city in the world. tourism promotion is clearly the responsibility of the member states. i cannot support surrendering this sovereignty to the eu, especially when it generates such important income for the london economy.
in writing. − the ecr group is committed to improving safety on europe’s roads. however, the koch report in a large number of areas called for measures at a european level which are outwith the competence of the eu. road safety is a matter best dealt with by national and local authorities. similarly, the ecr group opposes the setting up of agencies, or in this case coordinators at a european level, dealing with such matters and for this reason voted against the koch report.
in writing. − i have voted against any attempt to harmonise road safety legislation across the union. in the uk we have some of the safest roads in europe. there are already too many regulations and penalties on drivers largely used as cash cows that do little to make roads safer. any legislation based upon driving or road use is often exploited by insurance companies to push up premiums or evade insurance pay outs. the proposed legislation would call into question whether other matters would have to be harmonised, from the unit of speed to top speeds on motorways, to the process of new driver training. the system in the uk for learning to drive is long established and effective and any changes should be the remit of the uk government. the report also mentions harmonising special penalty points systems. the eu should not hold any authority over penalising individuals for any offence or establishing what would qualify as an offence as this is the privilege of the member state alone and would effectively create an eu wide criminal law.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s rejection of the proposal to make day-glo clothing compulsory for cyclists. this would effectively have made offenders out of victims – when the vast majority of accidents involving bikes are the fault of careless drivers.
in writing. − although i do not agree with every suggestion in this report it makes some good proposals for enhancing european road safety and i voted for it.
in writing. − i supported the 103 measures contained in this report as they will be crucial in ensuring the safety of roads in wales and across europe. following the commission’s unambitious proposals earlier in the year the parliament have set out their plans and ideas that will cut road deaths from the current levels of 35 000 a year across the eu. this report sends a strong message to governments, including the uk government, that we must take serious measures to cut accidents and road deaths in the eu, and not be cutting road safety budgets.
in writing. − i voted against this report, which calls for a creation of a cross-border agency, established under the united nations, with the express purpose of sharing available data, addressing the problems and causes of transboundary water-related hazards and proposing appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures. it stresses that, without such an adjudicating agency at the helm, critical negotiations on flood prevention and alleviation may prove insurmountable between conflicting countries, especially those in the developing world. with all sympathy to those who are living in least developed countries to whom access to water can be a daily struggle, we can not afford to create a whole infrastructure in order to promote the eu and its climate change policy. i do not see it as the eu’s role to oversee issues in third countries.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recommends the formation, as a matter of urgency, of a cross-border agency, established under the auspices of the united nations, with the express purpose of sharing available data, addressing the problems and causes of transboundary water-related hazards and proposing appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures. it stresses that, without such an adjudicating agency at the helm, critical negotiations on flood prevention and alleviation may prove insurmountable between conflicting countries. it emphasises that glacial regions, so often the source of flood events, are considered to be points of strategic importance, forming boundaries between nations, and that, as a result, the affected parties might prove reticent in sharing vital information.
in writing. − i welcome this report in which the rapporteur supports including principles for safeguarding the right to food in trade agreements between the eu and third countries, and believes human rights impact assessments of eu trade, development and foreign policies are crucial to make the right to food a reality.
in writing. − i welcome this report, on unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings, which points out that the case-law of the court of justice confirms that no reliance may be placed on such unilateral statements when it comes to interpret a union legal act. they may be used to this end only where reference is made to its content in the wording of the relevant act.
in writing. − i voted for this report. up to 36 million jobs in the eu depend on external trade. global competition is getting tougher and it is urgent to have a strategy to maintain and increase the eu’s exports. trade can and must contribute to welfare. around 7.5 million people across 58 developing countries benefit from the international fair trade system. parliament calls on the commission to promote it. it is vital we now use this trade policy framework of human rights, labour and environmental standards, fair trade and policy coherence for development in upcoming trade negotiations and ensure these commitments are followed through.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr juncker, as president of the eurogroup your detachment from reality is almost unbelievable. you are behaving like a political ostrich, pretending none of it is happening. you just told us a few moments ago that greece fundamentally has no problems because it is a member of the eurozone. i mean, that is just deluded. you wrote recently that the euro’s 13-year history is a success story. well, it is a very odd kind of success, is it not, and actually saying that frankly beggars belief and i think hardly makes you credible. i think it is about time that you and others in this room woke up to the fact that we are inflicting misery on millions of people through unemployment, through poverty, through a loss of democracy, and that it is an error to try and keep countries trapped inside the euro prison. the recent proposal is that greece should write down her debts by 50% and remain a member of the eurozone. surely, mr juncker, if that happens the same would happen to portugal and ireland too. do you think it is possible for any member state of the euro to write down their debts and stay a member of the eurozone?
on behalf of the efd group. – very good, mr juncker, very good. interesting. on this very point of credibility, you yourself said back in april that, when things become serious, you have to lie. that is what you said back in april. it seems to me that things are pretty serious and that, frankly, everything you say is a lie. the euro cannot, and should not, be held together under its current construction. it is about time that you admitted – you and all of you in this room – that you have got this wrong and countries like greece need to be set free. (applause)
mr cameron and mr osborne have suddenly decided that fiscal union is the logical step for the eu, so suddenly we have the extraordinary experience of the british government becoming federalist militants. what are we to make of all that?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i agree with mr turmes that investment policies aimed at more articulated growth are necessary. i think that the european investment bank is a solidarity-based financing instrument that we are under-using in europe, not only in the euro zone but in all the member states. i would welcome a synergy between public, banking and other resources organised at the level of the european investment bank and private capital, which could target investment in the currently disadvantaged areas of europe. and i would like these investments to be increasingly innovative and to serve the ambitions that the european union has developed elsewhere, particularly in the field of energy supply from alternative energy sources and the improvement of mobility networks within the southern part of the euro area and within the european union member countries: bulgaria, romania and others, where additional efforts in the field of mobility need to be made.
would it not be in greece’s interest to withdraw from the eurozone and restore the drachma, which would inevitably fall in value, boosting its visible and invisible exports and producing an economic expansion? whilst an effective devaluation would add to the burden of greece’s debts on paper, this would not add to its real burden because the default would almost certainly be necessary, whether or not greece withdraws from the eurozone. is greece in fact being kept in the eurozone, not in the interests of that country, but as an unjust sacrifice of greece’s interests to salvage the reputation of the single currency? it is certainly not in the interests of greece. would you, mr juncker, tell us either now or later how much money the european central bank has spent buying the bonds of each of these countries – greece, ireland, spain, portugal and italy – and, at the most recent valuation, what losses the ecb has incurred on these purchases?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr group is indeed in favour of a negotiated two-state israel-palestine solution, on the basis of the 1967 borders, with land for peace swaps, and agreed on by both parties under the quartet principles. president abbas’s unilateral bid before the un general assembly is rushed and will do nothing to change the situation on the ground. a lasting solution can only be achieved through direct negotiations between the palestinian authority and israel, which must, for its own part, stop the expansion of settlements on occupied territories. moreover, statehood cannot be safely considered while palestinian gaza is governed by an eu-banned terrorist organisation, hamas. it must also be remembered that palestine is largely dependent on foreign aid, not only from the us and the european union, but also from israel, from whom it receives water and electricity, as well as assistance in collecting taxes. advocating unilaterally a recognised palestinian authority state without the un security council’s approval, and only that of the general assembly’s, risks sanctions from the us and israel. the israeli prime minister has, to his credit, now, without any preconditions, called for a return to direct talks. the ideal next step would be for the palestinians, via the palestinian authority government, to do likewise in order to achieve their state.
madam president, we are aware of the work that the high representative has done over the past number of weeks in the middle east and we are grateful, high representative, for the efforts that you have expended. you do not dwell too much on the differences that were very apparent at the un in the two speeches from president abbas and mr netanyahu, but perhaps you should not also dwell on the differences in the quartet, with the quartet envoy quoted in the british press last week as describing the palestinian move as being deeply provocative. i think we all welcome your insistence on a negotiated settlement, but i would like you to explain to this house just a little further how you see that actually coming about. hamas has opposed the un move with almost a ‘too little, too late’ attitude. i would like you to explain to this house, and to give guarantees to this house, that the proposed cooperation between abbas and the hamas movement will not be translated into their presence at negotiations, given that hamas is a terrorist movement, dedicated to the destruction of israel and the genocide of israeli citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, on a point-of-order as well as answering the blue-card question, can you confirm to this house that a blue card is a matter of asking a question to another member and not a matter of making a political speech and putting forward one’s own view? i am very happy to confirm to this house that i do not speak for any non-attached member other than myself. i am an independent member in this house. i firmly stand for peace, democracy and absolute abhorrence of terrorist organisations like hamas. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i am sure that, in condemning terrorist organisations, the honourable member will also want to condemn the stern gang. this was a terrorist organisation in the 1940s, fighting against british troops, and whose leader killed british troops. it was the number one terrorist organisation as far as the british government was concerned. its leader went on to become prime minister of israel. can we just remember that, however much we may deplore terrorist organisations, if we want to make peace, we sometimes have to talk with those who do not necessarily share all our views?
i come from northern ireland. in northern ireland we have had 30 years of a terrorist campaign. we have had a terror organisation that has blown up people, killed people, including children, and gone into hospitals and tried to shoot people. we have had all of those things in northern ireland and, yet, some of those people who previously supported that terror organisation and that terrorist campaign find themselves in government. the reason that they were able to take part, and my party was able to take part in any kind of negotiation with those people, was the insistence that they give up terrorism and that they commit to exclusively peaceful and democratic means. the world has changed. we can no longer bury our heads in the sand in this house and pretend that there are good terrorists and bad terrorists. terrorist organisations should not be negotiated with.
mr president, as the un considers palestine’s application for full state membership, i would join the many others across europe and beyond in urging the eu and the eu member states to support the palestinian request. talks so far have failed. of course, peace can only be achieved through negotiation. the recognition of the state of palestine could lead to a freeze on the building of illegal settlements on the west bank. it could lead to the end of the occupation. that is the way to ensure that further talks take place and that a two-state solution will be possible in the future. i agree with mr cohn-bendit on the need for a stronger response to new settlement building. the palestinians have the right to be recognised as a state and that means that they would have full rights to participate in all international agreements and treaties. amnesty international has raised concerns that the eu is promoting a compromise which would prevent recourse to the international criminal court. this would undermine both the icc’s credibility and the principle of equal access to justice and reparation for all people. i hope that this is not the case and i would like to ask baroness ashton for her response on this.
madam president, mrs ries spoke about a peace being negotiated. i wonder what her view would be, and indeed what the view of the high representative would be on those negotiations, including any kind of absolvement from the international criminal court for any crimes that might have been committed. if it is true, as amnesty international is suggesting, that there is some idea that any negotiated peace might include excluding the international criminal court from any role in the future, then i think the european union should rethink its position. i would be interested to know mrs ries’ position on that, and also the high representative’s position when she replies.
madam president, i suppose the question for us is really what can the eu contribute usefully to developments in the middle east? baroness ashton, you have expressed your view on how important the role of the eu has been, but i am more interested in practical results. on this i agree with what mr salafranca was saying. you say you want to get israel and the palestinians back to the negotiating table. well, yes, we all do. israel says she has long been open to resuming negotiations, so what pressure have you brought to bear on the palestinians? the eu is the most significant financial supporter of the palestinian authority, with some eur 2 billion over the past four years. what action is being taken to leverage that financial influence to bring the palestinians to the conference table? where is the return on this investment? the unilateral action by the palestinian authority at the united nations is a deliberate provocation. let us not forget, by the way, that yasser arafat declared palestinian independence in october 1988. what is clear is that every time israel has made a major concession, it has been greeted with further violence and seen as a sign of weakness. look at what happened after the withdrawal from gaza in 2005 and after netanyahu’s ten-month suspension of settlement construction in the west bank in 2009. we have a small window of opportunity before the situation escalates. the eu needs to act responsibly.
madam president, last friday was a good day for palestinians. they do not get many of those. with all its divisions, i do not think the european union has exactly covered itself in glory, but i pay credit to the high representative for her efforts in herding cats. collectively though, we risk being on the wrong side. some member states do not seem to recognise that israel has two faces. one is liberal and democratic, and we all support it. the other, the one seen in the palestinian territories, is one of arbitrary and unjust military rule. of course a solution has to be reached and of course it has to be reached by negotiation, but i just see the present israeli government putting in place more and more preconditions – like the preconditions we have heard about, such as building settlements. it is like asking the palestinians to share the division of a pizza, while the israelis continue to eat the palestinian side of it. then there is the new precondition of recognising israel as a jewish state – well we recognise states, but we do not recognise the character of states. high representative, i just see no movement on the part of prime minister netanyahu. however, you have been privy to the talks and you have been negotiating. can you give the house any indication of where such movements will come from? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, it is certainly true to say that palestine is divided. when we look at hamas – and we always look at hamas and the problems there – we also have to recognise that, when there has been great injustice, one side may turn to extreme measures. the way to defeat terrorism is to try to involve people in day-to-day politics. we sponsored elections which were won by hamas. we sponsored elections, and then we refused to deal with the democratic leaders. we allowed the men of violence to triumph. we have problems with the way we have dealt with this problem in the past. we need to try to learn the lessons for the future.
madam president, last week’s un general assembly meeting and the associated media coverage was dominated by palestine’s move to gain full membership of the un – rightly so – but that very important event overshadowed a little corner of the middle east – the return of president saleh to yemen – and i would like to address the high representative on this issue. the situation in yemen has received very limited coverage, though its importance to the middle east cannot be underestimated. yemen desperately needs attention and support if it is to avoid becoming a failed state. al-qa’ida has a strong presence there and there are at least two secessionist movements trying to rip the country apart. high representative, i have said this before in this chamber and i shall repeat it: if yemen is allowed to fail, then the consequences will be dire, not just for yemeni citizens but for all of us. i know your scope for action is very limited, but i would urge you to do all you can to work with the saudi arabian government and with the gulf cooperation council to do all we can to avoid yemen degenerating into another somalia.
madam president, i hope the house will allow me to ask it to recognise and welcome members of the south african parliament who are here in the gallery, led by the honourable joan fubbs. i mention them in particular because africa is affected directly by events in north africa, and indeed by events in the middle east. i think it is our duty, and indeed our honour, to welcome them to this debate. (applause)
madam president, the policy of the party that i represent towards the israeli-palestinian dispute is one of neutrality. we do not believe that the united kingdom should be involved in any dispute on one side or the other. however, i would hope that this would not be a neutrality of indifference, because i too would like to see an enduring peace between these two peoples. but neutrality demands an even-handed approach. the un, in 1947, envisaged in general assembly resolution 181 two separate states, one jewish and one palestinian. if one state deserves recognition, so does the other. if a negotiated peace is not a precondition for the recognition of israel, nor should such a negotiated peace be a precondition for the recognition of palestine. i believe that it would be easier for the government of a recognised palestinian state to restrain and control the activities of its citizens than for the head of an ill-defined entity to restrain and control its inhabitants. furthermore, it will be easier for a recognised state to negotiate peace with authority.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, whilst the eyes of the eu are understandably focused on the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy and the middle east and north african countries, we must not lose sight of the importance of the eastern partnership and our support for closer relations with the six countries to the east. ukraine is going through a very difficult phase with deterioration, clearly, now in its democratic structures and the rule of law, as we have seen over the selective justice applied to yulia tymoshenko. this is happening just as it wants to sign a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with the european union. belarus is still in the grip of a dictator, lukashenko. the situation in the caucasus is worrying, with continued russian occupation of georgia and the escalation of tensions between azerbaijan and armenia over nagorno karabakh (nk). i welcome the new european union special representative appointment for the ‘frozen conflicts’ from the high representative, but at the inaugural meeting of euronest, which i intended two weeks ago, the impasse over eu membership prospects under article 49 for the six countries, including the three caucasus republics, and also the nk dispute, basically paralysed the day’s proceedings, which does not augur well for euronest parliamentary cooperation. i hope that the warsaw summit does not get bogged down in the same way on 29 september. the eu should primarily focus on a pragmatic basis on issues like trade liberalisation and visa facilititation as the way forward, not the intractable issues like nk.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, may i thank the high representative catherine ashton for her statement. cathy, may i also thank you for your personal committment to this issue of non-discrimination. it is always a pleasure to follow michèle striffler who equally has been outspoken in the defence of people who have been discriminated against because of their difference. you rightly, vice-president, mentioned david kato, a man who because he sought to end discrimination in uganda against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people was ultimately murdered; the three iranian men who only days ago were hanged by their neck until they were dead because they were gay; jamie rodemeyer in the united states of america who committed suicide because he was bullied to death. they are the real examples of what discrimination does. those who speak out using either their belief or their religion or their politics on behalf of such discrimination support those who would murder and those who would discriminate and by so doing they demean themselves. the declaration of human rights was adopted in 1948, yet that was what we had to settle for in the cotonou agreement. it was shameful that our cotonou partners would not accept our definition, a wider definition, and it is a wonderful example that 63 years after the universal declaration in 1948 people still feel that we can find others to discriminate against in order to reinforce our position in society. that is why we in the socialist and democratic group welcome the resolution at the un. it is a historic time; it is a turning point in the history of human rights. sexual orientation and gender identity are at last increasingly understood to deserve equal protection. the eu does not have a perfect track record on human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity. the parliament is aware of this and has made it clear in the resolution which lists outstanding issues within the eu. this is vital because, if we are to be taken seriously in the defence and the promotion of human rights, we must hold the same mirror up to ourselves and examine our own record. the work and the commitment of the high representative and the external action service and member states’ diplomats are outstanding. they have worked in partnership with countries from around the world, and i emphasise ‘in partnerships’. this is not cultural imperialism because human rights know no boundaries and no borders. they are universal and indivisible. therefore the parliament is equally respectful of the ongoing progress at the un and does not seek to dictate to it or influence its process. but, with this resolution, this house wishes to encourage positive developments for universal and indivisible human rights, both at home and in the world. i am pleased with the lead that both south africa and brazil have given in their sponsoring and their promotion of the resolution at the united nations human rights commission in geneva. it is ground-breaking work, we need to do more to support them, but equally can i please give a plea on behalf of trans people. we need to depathologise their right to health, we need to end the fact that being trans is to be seen to be suffering from an illness or a sickness. to be yourself is no illness and no sickness. it is to demand that your unique place in the world is respected. that is why we must do all we can to support this resolution, and i so move.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, human rights are universal and indivisible and apply to all equally, regardless of a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity. the un human rights council, despite its significant shortcomings, has done some useful work in this area. holding an open and respectful dialogue on sexual orientation and gender identity amongst un member states is indispensable in achieving a world where equality and non-discrimination against lgbt people is the international norm. the safeguarding and promoting of the universality of human rights is a fundamental part of the eu’s common values. regrettably, on gay rights, these laudable principles are not yet fully upheld by the entire european union. we still see unfortunately, although rarely, cases of discrimination against gay and transgender people in the european union. member states should also reaffirm their commitment to protect lgbt rights in the conduct of their foreign relations, both bilaterally with third countries – in particular in the arab world and in parts of africa where criminal sanctions are still widely applied, including, disgracefully, the death penalty in some cases – and also multilaterally in all international fora, including the united nations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i firstly welcome the vice-president of the commission to this side of the house. madam vice-president, i am right behind you over here. it is always good to see you, and i welcome your commitment to this house, both on an individual and a collective basis. this is of course a very sensitive issue that we are dealing with at a very sensitive time. can i firstly give my support to commissioner füle’s statements and calls for restraint from all involved. as we move towards a crucial phase in the cyprus reunification talks, it is essential that we encourage all sides to roll back from their respective positions. commissioner füle, what are we doing to encourage cyprus to stop the exploration whilst we await the reunification talks? as a member state, it owes a duty to this union not to push when we ask for time. it is not a question of sovereignty. we have already clearly established that. it is simply a question of strategic planning. cyprus should provide us with time and space for the betterment of our union and in our joint interests.
madam president, the musical chairs at the front of the hall, and the lack of any real statement from either of the representatives, is perhaps at least recognition that exclusive economic zones are not a matter of eu competence; they are a matter of international law. quite apart from the dubious wisdom of drilling for hydrocarbons on a planet whose temperature is increasing far too fast and in countries which have huge resources of renewable energies, this is a challenge the european union cannot ignore. we are in this situation partly because we failed to insist on a peace deal prior to cyprus’s entry to the union and partly because, since entry, little progress has been made on a solution for the island and the union has gone cold on turkey’s adhesion. i note the speech of cyprus’s new energy minister, praxoula antoniadou kyriakou at the energy council last week, and i welcome her commitment to the opening of the energy chapter for turkey, which cyprus blocked in 2007. but i note too that exploratory drilling has begun. knowing turkey’s objections and knowing its offer of 24 september for a un mediator on hydrocarbon resources, aware that drilling will be seen as more than an economic activity, and at a time when un negotiations are entering a very delicate phase, what cyprus is doing may be defensible legally but it is bound to be inflammatory politically, and we should not be surprised at turkey’s reaction. now, of course, we must urge turkey to show restraint, but we must also give some hope to the turkish cypriots that they might have a share in the wealth of an estimated 20 billion barrels of oil. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, of course the eu has a duty to defend its member states and, of course, what turkey is doing is wrong under international law. my point is that we should not be surprised at turkey’s reaction. i agree with the very wise comment made by mrs oomen-ruijten earlier in this debate. if we really want to find a solution, then it has to be a solution that gives all cypriots a chance of sharing in the wealth that will be generated from the drilling.
madam president, i think we should try to keep calm. i have two specific questions. firstly, what are the council and commission planning to do, should the un withdraw its good offices from the talks on the island? secondly, what precisely is your reaction to be to address the problem of the turkish boycott of the imminent council presidency from july?
mr verhofstadt, do you accept that the french and german governments, to which you referred in your very eloquent speech, have the absolute right to make decisions in what they judge to be their own national interest?
mr president, and thank you, mr bisky, you mention in your speech that anti-europe sentiment and feeling was gaining ground. can i ask you to accept that there is a clear distinction between anti-european union feeling and anti-europe? the people who are anti the european union of the political construction, like me, are very pro-europe. would you please accept that there is a clear distinction there and we should stop talking about anti-european sentiment and start talking about anti-european union sentiment?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr barroso told us this morning that the european union is an inspiration. mr barroso, whilst you admitted to there being one or two little economic problems, you made it perfectly clear that jobs and growth were to follow, that everything is going well. in fact you painted a vision that a new period of european renewal is upon us. as a former communist yourself you probably remember the old soviet leaders getting up to give their speeches and telling everybody that there was a record harvest or that tractor production figures were terribly good, and they of course believed that history was on their side. in fact president khrushchev got up and said to the west: we will bury you. so much did he believe in his own union. now of course we look back at that and we laugh. i think that in our tomorrows people will look back at you and they will say: how on earth did this unelected man get all of this power and how did europe’s political class sitting in this room decide that the community method should replace national democracy? i think people will look back in astonishment that we have surrendered democracy. but what you want to do is to say, right, we have a european union and what we have to do now is have more of it. so, as an architect – and you are one of the key architects of the current failure – you say that even though everything to date has been wrong we are going to do more of the same. i thought that was a definition of madness. i cannot believe that this is a rational response to any situation in which you find yourself and, far from it being a state of the union, i would argue that the union is in a state because just look at the confusion. we have got you as president of the european commission, we have a president of the european parliament; we have got my old friend herman van rompuy who is the permanent president of the european council; we have got the poles, they are now presidents temporarily of the european council; we have got presidents all round this room. goodness me, even i am a president. i am not sure what the collective noun for presidents is, perhaps an incompetence. i do not know. but certainly when you take away democratic accountability it is clear that nobody really is in charge and it is developing as a union of intolerance. anybody who stands up here and dares to give a political view which is different from the received wisdom is written off as mad, insane, violent and fascist; we have heard it for years from these people. the intolerance is so deep that, when we get referendums in france, the netherlands and ireland that reject your view, you as a political class see it as a problem to be overcome. so i am very worried about the whole root of this union. there is a new nationalism that is sweeping europe. you want to abolish the nation states, in your case, mr schulz, perhaps because you are ashamed of your past. and you now want this flag and a new anthem to replace nation states and you do not care how you get there. if you have to crush national democracy, if you have to oppose popular referendums, you just sweep this aside and say that it is populism. but it is not, it is democracy. what is sweeping northern europe now, starting off in april with that amazing result in the finnish general election, is a new democratic revolution. it is not anti-european. it wants a europe of trade; it wants a europe of cooperation; it wants a europe where we can do student exchanges and we can work in each others’ capital cities; it wants those things. but it does not want this european union model. frankly, you are all now yesterday’s men. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to ask mr farage what his answer is for little britain to the challenges of globalisation.
mr president, this point is often made, namely that a country like britain is only 62 million people and are we not better off being part of a big european club so that we can have more of a voice on the world stage? funny that, is it not? here is britain, the world’s fifth largest trading nation, which is now prohibited from going into world trade organisation talks because all of that is done, on our behalf, by an unelected european commissioner. mr duff, the answer actually is that an independent britain that trades and cooperates with her european neighbours in an age of globalisation would be able to forge her own trade relationships across the world. it would make sense for a country like ours to start off with the english-speaking world, which shares common law – our own kith and kin in the commonwealth who we turned our backs on so shamefully. (applause)
mr president, there is a real sense of déjà vu in this house this morning. we have heard the scale of the economic nightmare, we hear the supposed solutions, and yet, mr barroso, we have heard you speak in this house on these things with these promises of solutions many times before. that sense of déjà vu was heightened for me when i heard one member actually say that, after your speech, you should be called ‘barroso the lionheart’. what nonsense. the political class in this house, led by you and the presidents in this house, should hang their heads in shame. we have a monetary union that has been politically inspired. it is an ideology that is not working and that is costing europe’s citizens a significant amount of money as they suffer cuts and more and more depression and a greater downturn in economic growth.
mr president, i am sure the house will wish mr barroso luck in aligning the individual interests of member states with the collective interest of the union. we welcome his proposal for stability bonds to lay the basis for future growth. many of us understand that germany has no wish to add to its public debt of eur 2 000 billion the underwriting of some eur 3 200 billion issued by the weaker countries of the union, but does he foresee for the future a common budgetary programme for the eurozone, so that common bonds might be issued for future borrowing? will he seek to extend the mandate of the european central bank, perhaps to add the pursuit of sustainable growth to the goal of price stability?
mr president, it is great that we have to install a federal economic government and that this has been recognised by the commission and acclaimed by parliament, but i think that also poses problems about the popular legitimacy of this house. would you agree with me that it is essential also to develop the european political parties to connect the citizen with the strengthened form, style and force of a government that we are going to have?
in writing. – the state of the union address failed to acknowledge the disastrous year had by the eu and suggests forging ahead with deeper integration to prevent threats to key legislation such as the schengen acquis and single currency. there are reasons why these have come under attack. they are unworkable and opposed by many within the eu. to adhere to them demonstrates how dismissive of public opinion and devoid of reason the commission is. regulating the financial market to resolve the outcomes of poor judgment by the commission over the eurozone is thieving from the success of the city of london to feed the failures of the single currency. the naïve utopian view of the commission is little more than a foolhardy path to failure. such is the case with common migration policy. how can the commission control and balance migration without impeding the liberty and mobility they claim are central tenets of the european vision? expansion is laughable when the eu struggles to effectively operate in the extant member states. inking new ftas undermines national variance and independence. member states are being lead into a quagmire of interdependence where sovereignty will be an unattainable memory.
in writing. – president barroso, to put a positive spin on the multiple crises that the eu is currently experiencing is a seemingly impossible task. but you did your best. you told us that the answer to the eurozone crisis is the issuing of eurobonds. you know full well, however, that germany has rejected the idea. eurobonds are going nowhere. we hear much talk about the need to address the democratic deficit in the eu. but you spoke to a parliamentary chamber that appeared to be less than half full. your speech should have inspired, and shown the way to salvation, but meps could not even be bothered to turn up and listen. so do not be surprised if the people of europe fail to report to the polling booths in large numbers, or if the level of citizen engagement is low. we hear much talk of the commission's environmental concerns and priorities, and yet we, our staff, and the press corps had to come all the way to strasbourg, as we do 12 times a year, to hear a speech that you could have made in brussels. president barroso, the eu is drifting ever further away from reality.
mr president, since the financial crisis hit, the eu has responded with more spending and more debt. it has emptied the treasuries, it has exhausted its credit, it has turned the ecb into a bad bank and now where does it go for funds? well, the financial transaction tax. let us leave aside for a second the idea that we can impose such a tax in isolation in europe; let us leave aside the bankers having to pass on the cost to their customers. ask ourselves and say where do most financial transactions in the eu take place? they take place in the city of london. in other words, yet again britain is being sent the bill in order to prop up a currency which we declined to join. this has been the unhappy story of our association with the eu these past four decades. it is just like the common fisheries policy. we are expected to put more into the common pot from which others will be drawing and those are the two bookends. this has a somewhat manic fin-de-siècle feel about it, these unconstrained ambitions of so many european leaders expecting the peoples to pay, again and again. ‘there be many caesars, ere such another julius’ wrote shakespeare in cymbeline, ‘britain is a world by itself and we will nothing pay for wearing our own noses’.
mr president, in the debate this morning, president barroso declared that he was going to raise the number of people of working age in employment from 67% to 75% by 2020. who knew it was that easy? why not just declare that we are going to raise it to 90% or 100%. this has been the story of the euro all along: this belief that communiqués from politicians trump any other reality; that wonderful moment just before the summer when there was a summit and the crisis was declared to be over, but the markets did not get the message and then president van rompuy wrote a very huffy article in the guardian in london saying he was astonished by the behaviour of these markets: how could they be widening the bond spreads in spain and italy when they had obviously not been listening to what the eu leaders had said? that has been the story of the euro all along, and people are entitled to make their own mistakes. britain is not a member of the single currency – we should be looking on helpfully, but we should not be dragged into it. the problem with these six-pack votes that we have just voted through is that they do not distinguish between the eurozone and the eu as a whole. we are, as winston churchill said, ‘interested and associated but not absorbed’. we have our own dream and our own task, and ‘should european statesmen address us in the words that were used of old: “shall i speak for thee to the king or the captain of the host”, we should reply with the shunamite woman, “nay sir, for we dwell among our own people”’.
mr president, the so-called ‘six pack’ imposes economic rule on the member states via the european union. the english parliament established in the reign of king edward i that its key reason for existing was control of the public finances. in 1642 the english fought a civil war and then cut off a king’s head precisely in order to establish its sole right to levy taxes. now, not by means of an act of parliament, but by means of a regulation from the european union, the british government is expected to meekly accept financial control by the european union. if it does, there can no longer be any pretence that britain is a sovereign nation or a democracy. the british government should reject and repudiate these regulations and defend the rights of parliament. to do otherwise is abject surrender.
in writing. − i voted against amending budget 2011 number 4 because i oppose the non-transparent way in which the transfer is completed. the payments are taken from an unused eerp energy project budget line which is unrelated to the funding required for management of migration flows. this money should come from reserves that are set aside for this purpose. it makes the eerp energy project line look like a hidden reserve intended for other purposes and in an audit would set alarm bells ringing.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal for the reinforcement of commitment appropriations by nearly eur 41.1 million for the management of migration and refugee flows (through the frontex agency, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund) as part of a multiform response of the eu to the political developments in southern mediterranean countries.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for redundant workers wherever they are in the world, i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. it is a slap in the face to hardworking brits who have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in denmark. increasingly the uk is becoming a hub for people who have fled their own eu member states to try to earn more money or claim benefits in the uk, which they often send large proportions of back home rather than inject it into the local economy. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency.
in writing. − i support this proposal which meets the criteria for the mobalisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, which in this particular case is related to the serious effect of the structural changes brought about by globalisation on the wind turbine manufacturing industry in the eu.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for redundant workers wherever they are in the world, i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. it is a slap in the face to hardworking brits who have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in germany. increasingly the uk is becoming a hub for people who have fled their own eu member states to try to earn more money or claim benefits in the uk, which they often send large proportions of back home rather than inject it into the local economy. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency.
in writing. − i supported this application which meets the criteria for using the globalisation adjustment fund. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, which in this particular case is related to the decreased demand for new motor vehicles in the european union as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. as a consequence, the production of motor vehicles in germany dropped by 13.8% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and by 14% in 2010 as compared to 2008.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for redundant workers wherever they are in the world, i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. it is a slap in the face to hardworking brits who have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in portugal. increasingly the uk is becoming a hub for people who have fled their own eu member states to try to earn more money or claim benefits in the uk, which they often send large proportions of back home rather than inject it into the local economy. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency.
in writing. − one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, and in this particular case, portugal argues that the clothing and footwear industries were strongly hit by the crisis. these sectors are very vulnerable to external factors such as loss of consumer purchasing power. the economic recession had a negative impact on the labour market, unemployment levels rose, and this affected consumer confidence. as a consequence, manufacturing industries experienced a sharp drop in sales and production. the portuguese authorities report that portugal recorded a decline in gdp over the last two quarters of 2008 and in 2009 (a 4% decrease according to the banco de portugal). both clothing and footwear industries recorded a decrease in exports (eur 24 million in clothing, eur 6 million in footwear). portuguese footwear exports declined in 2009 to eur 1 207 million, representing 6.4 % less than those of the previous year.
in writing. − i voted against the european globalisation adjustment fund because its real function is to make the people of the nations of europe feel that the eu is taking care of them in the ongoing economic crisis. it gives most money to workers, not in the countries worst affected but in those who are doing better. not alone that, but it gives money to workers who are in receipt of redundancy packages and are eligible for unemployment benefits. i would like to find out how many workers that have benefited from the fund have found jobs in the field where they been retrained.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement with argentina and voted to give it consent. argentina has the right to have its trading rights, which were slightly eroded due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with romania and bulgaria, restored.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement with australia and believe the european parliament is right to give its consent. australia has the right to have its trading rights, which were slightly eroded due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with romania and bulgaria, restored.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement with new zealand and believe the european parliament is right to give its consent. new zealand has the right to have its trading rights, which were slightly eroded due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with romania and bulgaria, restored.
in writing. − i abstain as the main effect of this report will be within the eurozone and for countries committed to joining the eurozone. whilst i welcome measures to enforce stronger fiscal discipline, i also respect the rights of members from those countries to make their own decisions on this report. despite the text here, the uk cannot be forced to act on recommendations under sgp due to tfeu protocol 15.
in writing. − i abstained on the six reports on economic governance as they relate primarily to the eurozone of which my country is not a part.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal establishing a legal framework for the surveillance of the national reform programmes. i would have liked a stronger emphasis on growth and jobs.
in writing. − the ecr has always supported the eurozone’s efforts to find a way out of the crisis and to ensure that it does not happen again. it is regrettable, however, that the chosen way of doing so requires that the whole of the eu, and not just the eurozone, must be subject to the new and intrusive powers that have been handed to the commission through the economic governance package. the ecr cooperated fully to make the new system as effective, accountable and transparent as possible and to reduce its impact on the member states outside the eurozone. it is a shame that governmental profligacy and contempt for the stability and growth pact has required such a system to be put in place, and we hope that all member states have now learnt that fiscal prudence is essential at all times, and not just when times are bad. even though we have not been able to support this report, we hope that parliament’s vote will go some way towards restoring the faith of the markets that proper action is being taken. but from now on, it is for the eurozone to sort out the mess in which it finds itself.
in writing. − the austerity-only approach approved by the parliament today is not the answer to the economic difficulties faced by countries across europe. short-term deficit cuts are not what we need. if we want to deal with debts and deficits, we need to boost growth and employment. these austerity measures will fail to protect investment, will kill growth, will provide no new jobs and will seriously compromise the road to economic recovery. those countries, including the uk, that are already implementing right wing austerity plans have demonstrated that this approach is simply not working.
in writing. − i abstain as the effect of this report will be within the eurozone. whilst i welcome measures to enforce stronger fiscal discipline, i also respect the rights of members from those countries to make their own decisions on this report.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that parliament has won the right to invite finance ministers from countries that have received a warning to hearings, with member states having long insisted that this should not be the case.
in writing. − the ecr has always supported the eurozone’s efforts to find a way out of the crisis and to ensure that it does not happen again. we abstained on this report as, since our group to a large extent represents non-eurozone member states, it would not be appropriate to interfere with legislation that only concerns the eurozone. the ecr cooperated fully to make the new system as effective, accountable and transparent as possible and, even though this report does not concern the non-eurozone members, we were very happy to contribute. it is a shame that governmental profligacy and contempt for the stability and growth pact has required such a system to be put in place, and we hope that all member states have now learnt that fiscal prudence is essential at all times, and not just when times are bad. we hope that parliament’s vote will go some way towards restoring the faith of the markets that proper action is being taken. but from now on, it is for the eurozone to sort out the mess in which it finds itself.
in writing. − i abstain as the effect of this report will be within the eurozone. whilst i welcome measures to enforce stronger fiscal discipline, i also respect the rights of members from those countries to make their own decisions on this report.
in writing. − i agree with this report that strengthening economic governance should go hand in hand with reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of economic governance in the union, which should be achieved through a closer and more timely involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments throughout the economic policy coordination procedures.
in writing. − i am opposed to this report. although it is important to monitor and take action to correct imbalances this report potentially goes much further, especially with regard to symmetry and the wide list of indicators. the powers given to the commission are vague and very widely worded and, in my view, this could lead to significant dilution of subsidiarity.
in writing. − i voted for this report as a constructive measure to help tackle the financial crisis.
in writing. − the ecr has always supported the eurozone’s efforts to find a way out of the crisis and to ensure that it does not happen again. it is regrettable, however, that the chosen way of doing so requires that the whole of the eu, and not just the eurozone, must be subject to the new and intrusive powers that have been handed to the commission through the economic governance package. the ecr cooperated fully to make the new system as effective, accountable and transparent as possible and to reduce its impact on the member states outside the eurozone. it is a shame that governmental profligacy and contempt for the stability and growth pact has required such a system to be put in place, and we hope that all member states have now learnt that fiscal prudence is essential at all times, and not just when times are bad. we have voted against this report as it does not inspire confidence that the lessons of the crisis have been learnt, and in this case we doubt that parliament’s vote will assure the markets that proper action is being taken.
in writing. − i abstain as the effect of this report will be within the eurozone. whilst i welcome measures to enforce stronger fiscal discipline, i also respect the rights of members from those countries to make their own decisions on this report.
in writing. − i welcome the view that the commission should have a stronger and more independent role in the enhanced surveillance procedure. this concerns member-state-specific assessments, monitoring, missions, recommendations and warnings. in addition, the role of the council needs to be reduced in the steps leading to potential sanctions and the reversed qualified majority voting in the council needs to be used wherever possible in accordance with the tfeu. the member of the council representing the member state concerned and those that are not complying with the council recommendations to take corrective action under the stability and growth pact or to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances should not participate in the vote.
in writing. − the ecr has always supported the eurozone’s efforts to find a way out of the crisis and to ensure that it does not happen again. it is regrettable, however, that the chosen way of doing so requires that the whole of the eu, and not just the eurozone, must be subject to the new and intrusive powers that have been handed to the commission through the economic governance package. the ecr cooperated fully to make the new system as effective, accountable and transparent as possible and to reduce its impact on the member states outside the eurozone. it is a shame that governmental profligacy and contempt for the stability and growth pact has required such a system to be put in place, and we hope that all member states have now learnt that fiscal prudence is essential at all times, and not just when times are bad. even though we have not been able to support this report, we hope that parliament’s vote will go some way towards restoring the faith of the markets that proper action is being taken. but from now on, it is for the eurozone to sort out the mess in which it finds itself.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this report says: the stability and growth pact and the complete economic governance framework should complement and be compatible with a union strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. − i voted against this so called six-pack of regulations on economic governance. this is an attempt to use this crisis to further integrate the member states into a federal union by taking away from them the ability to set their own budgets. this is the most fundamental power a nation has. the six-pack is being held out as part of the cure for those heavily indebted countries who are now said to be a threat to the euro and the eu itself, but it is already too late. instead these countries should be allowed to exit the euro and save themselves.
in writing. − this resolution highlights the fact that discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity is still a reality both within and outwith the eu. the resolution calls on the eu’s institutions and member states to take action to bring about a change in attitudes and i entirely endorse its sentiments.
in writing. − i voted for this report which calls on the high representative and member states to systematically promote, in partnership with third countries, the protection and respect of human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity at the united nations and in other multilateral fora, and bilaterally in their human rights dialogues.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we find ourselves in a very difficult situation here today regarding this programme. in my opinion – and i want to make this very clear – this programme belongs in social policy and not european agricultural policy. i believe that perhaps we should go further, and it should be a national responsibility. that is why we will support the move proposed by the commission in its post-2014 mff, which seeks a long-term solution to the problem and paves a way for a solution to be found when it is moved from heading 1 to heading 2. however, the situation we face today concerning the next two years of this programme is completely and utterly unacceptable. we need to find a swift solution. the risk is clear. the money available to charities in 20 member states will drop from eur 500 million to only eur 113 million if the council continues to block a solution, leaving over 18 million poor in need who normally benefit from the programme. that is a scandalous situation that we find ourselves in. it is not acceptable to let this happen in 21st century europe, especially at a time of crisis. we need to urge the council to take their responsibilities seriously. regardless of whether you believe the programme should be national or whether it should be moved to social policy, there is a duty to find a way forward to solve the problem for the next two years and to find a transitional solution to unlock the situation for the coming two years. the council should work together with the commission and parliament to end this short-term deadlock. we need to find a proper, agreed, solid basis for the long-term future of this programme. it is unacceptable that the poor should be taken hostage by this legal dispute and this inability of the council to find a common line. it is now time that national governments took their responsibilities seriously and worked together with the commission and this parliament to come up with a quick solution that ensures that those who need this programme for the years 2012 and 2013 are satisfied and that their needs are met.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, like the last speaker, i think we are in a difficult position on this particular issue. while i recognise this has helped over 18 million people and has done a tremendous job throughout the whole of the european union in many areas where it is implemented, we are now in a position where the funding is seriously being questioned. we have to deal with this, and the minister made it clear that stocks in 2013 are going to be more limited than they will have been in 2012. that is a reality. we all know that the security of food supply is not there as it has been in the past, and this is a tremendous challenge for us all. but like the previous speaker, let me say i have to question whether this should come out of an agricultural budget or the social budget. i think we have to get it right. we cannot just simply fudge something because we disagree with it in many ways, so which fund would pay? i think this is the bottom line and question. i would ask commissioner cioloş whether this fund is effective and efficient. we all know about the waste of food and we have talked about the food that is being wasted throughout europe. is this the best way to deal with poverty? i think we have to get underneath this if we want to find a solution. i recognise there is a great risk of poverty throughout the whole of the european union, and i recognise that and i want from the bottom of my heart to help, but we have to question it. i sincerely hope and trust that a solution to this problem can be found. i want the agriculture council to find that solution, because i do not believe we can simply turn a blind eye. however, i do not necessarily believe we are addressing the problem in the right way.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i say how happy i am to see you in the chair; it is the first time i have had the pleasure. marking 20 years since the rio earth summit of 1992, this is a timely opportunity to assess our approach to international dialogues on the environment and development. we need to ask ourselves if we are moving in the right direction. rather than producing a wish list of outcomes based on the triumph of hope over experience, we need to accept the pace of development and find ways of mitigating its effects. i would like to resist the temptation to grandstand on the bigger issues today and confine myself to talking about the resolution which we have in front of us, because there are a number of blind alleys that we can stray down. firstly, nuclear energy. the fukushima tragedy must not be used as a modern-day trojan horse to push the anti-nuclear rhetorical agenda. nuclear energy is an essential part of the energy mix. yes, let us insist that future facilities are not situated in areas of seismic activity, but this is not an excuse for asking for a ban. i would also like to mention gmos. to suggest that they are not sustainable development is disproportionate. i am fully aware of the various arguments put forward by anti-gmo lobbies and pro. i know there are very strong feelings in member states, but there are currently gmo crops authorised for use in the european union, and it would be entirely wrong to label them as unsustainable and to promote organic agriculture only in this resolution. finally, the call for a financial transaction tax. we hear it almost every day; we heard it again this morning from the president of the commission. it is fast becoming the panacea for all our woes. this is not realistic. with the current economic conditions, we need to think much more carefully. i welcome the commissioner’s outline and look forward to more detail on that subject. this is a non-legislative resolution. if it is read by the un, it will merely serve to send out mixed signals ahead of our member states’ negotiations. let us resist the temptation to unnecessarily politicise, stick to a script we can all subscribe to, and get on with making a real difference.
mr president, for some years now climate realists like me have struggled to understand what lies behind the man-made global warming hoax which will be further exploited at rio+20. various theories have been put forward. post-1989, it gave the far left a new stick with which to beat the west. maurice strong and the united nations saw it as a way of promoting one-world government. it has handed carbon traders and wind factory profiteers a taxpayer-funded blank cheque. but none of the above explains the hitherto puzzling role of big oil and neo-con foundations in funding the environmentalist protest groups which have led the climate-change and anti-nuclear propaganda offensives. now, however, their real agenda is coming to light. phoney green hysteria has blocked the potential for nuclear and coal electricity to power our civilisation in the post-peak oil world. this gap allows those who will profit from gas fracking to say that we have no choice but to exploit this environmentally disastrous energy source. of course we have no choice, because their useful idiot greens have denied us the other alternatives. so now we face a fracking gold rush in, among other targets, lancashire, wales, southern england, france and poland, where george soros has just won an almost exclusive licence to loot and pollute almost the entire country. the neo-cons and globalists are also excited about the potential of fracked gas to advance their geopolitical agenda of reducing the influence of russia and destabilising the arab world. climate change never was about drowning polar bears. it was always about big business profit and elite power.
mr president, the rio +20 earth summit 2012 sounds important – but is it really? the socialist one-world agenda has been having a hard time of it of late. global problems require global solutions: sounds good. but global governance through scare stories about man-made global warming has fallen flat. people in the uk, us and china are hugely disbelieving. everybody knows that co2 is not the cause of the ice ages coming and going. so how can a little extra co2 be a problem now, whether or not it causes a little extra global warning? is not a little warming a good thing? would anyone here really prefer icebergs in the channel and polar bears in brussels? the same goes for the even more vague scare stories that have been peddled using meaningless rhetoric since rio twenty years ago. no one knows what sustainable development really means – and who would want unsustainable development anyway? the environmentalists’ ‘ban everything accept windmills’ attitude is going to send us back to the middle ages unless we put a stop to it. you are calling in this document for tangible actions and accountable targets, but of course that is all just soviet five-year plans all over again. it is about time we recognised these failed communist policies for what they are and go back to the honest free-market approach which creates wealth for all by innovation and hard work, not by endless interfering and political tinkering. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
i think the question was: have you attended any rio summits?
mr president, i have not and judging by the last, not the last rio, but the last one in copenhagen, i am glad i did not. it was a complete failure from beginning to end.
mr president, we must take great care that we adopt a strategy for greening of the economy that supports policies that in fact achieve those objectives, and not policies that achieve the exact opposite. in scotland right now we have set targets of 100% energy from renewables by 2020. the scottish government has stated that it will not allow new nuclear power stations to be built, but rather it will race ahead with a mad dash for renewables based mainly around onshore and offshore wind, tidal and wave energy. but these projects are being funded by a sea of subsidies paid by the poor beleaguered consumers. what we are witnessing is a dramatic transfer of money from the poor to the rich and from the consumers to the wealthy estate owners and power companies. scotland’s consumers have recently seen their bills go up by between 10% and 20%. in july the department of energy in whitehall revealed that rising bills have pushed 5.5 million households into fuel poverty. that is one-fifth of british homes. the most vulnerable people in society will be forced to make the choice between food or fuel. this is a scandal of unparalleled proportions, but it is one of the unintended consequences of pursuing a policy of greening the economy, which is in fact driving people into poverty rather than eradicating it. nor can such a policy be described as sustainable when wind turbines only provide energy for around 22% of their working life. they do not work when there is no wind and they have to be switched off when there is too much wind. so every megawatt of installed wind capacity has to be backed up with a megawatt of installed baseload which, in the case of scotland where no nuclear power will be allowed in the future, means a heavy reliance on high co2-emitting gas or coal plants. a green economy is worth striving for, but not at any cost.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we will of course join with the commissioner in urging member states to do more. as mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra has said for those of us on the delegation – and a few of us are now in the chamber – there were some harrowing sights in the refugee camps, and it is worth putting that on record. on a daily basis, children, women and men face extreme heat, sandstorms, limited access to clean water, inadequate sanitation and hygiene facilities. of course this is the story of all refugee camps in extreme areas, but i think all of our colleagues would agree that what we also saw was extreme generosity by the tunisian people, by the army. these are people of whom many are living on the poverty line, yet they took refugees into their own homes and we witnessed this story. what it means for us is a contrast between that and a more urgent situation today. i spoke to the unhcr last week and it has identified 5 291 persons in extreme positions who could be resettled. they have been checked. they can be resettled. we are in a situation where we know the figures, we have done the organisation and of course the tunisian border will now be closed because of the sheer number of sub-saharan african refugees, people who have been rejected by the rebel forces in libya, who are now coming since our visit to the area. so there is a more urgent situation today than ever before and, with the elections also coming, the political pressures on tunisia are extreme. since that delegation visit we ask you to redouble your efforts. we will join you in doing it. it is crucial also that the joint eu resettlement programme is established before the new multiannual financial framework. the deadlock is unblocked in council. it would allow member states to pledge resettlement places in may 2012, to be offered in 2013, already a long time to wait for those who are in urgent need. parliament has also proposed supplementary funding for any new resettlement countries and this could give the incentive that is needed to involve more member states in resettlement. in the shorter term unblocking the resettlement programme will also allow the european asylum support office to take up its role of coordinating cooperation between eu member states and in supporting those that are new to resettlement, but the political message is very clear: resettlement does not involve huge numbers; they are very modest numbers but they are highly symbolic. i know colleagues who visited the camps will agree with me that there was one country on their lips, and that was norway. norway had resettled refugees, the united states had resettled refugees, canada had resettled, and of course we in the european union had lagged behind. we must put that right. we must get the political message right, and the humanitarian message correct.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in tunisia the departure of ben ali heralded the triumph of democracy over despotism. for the first time in generations, tunisians have the right democratically to determine their own destiny. under the new democratic leadership, stability has been restored in tunis and the country is once more on the road to prosperity. tourists have returned and international businesses are now making new investments. therefore a clear distinction must be drawn between genuine asylum seekers and economic migrants leaving tunisia and other north african countries, coming from further afield, who are arriving on the eu shores in very large numbers; indeed more than 40 000 since january this year. it is deplorable that in lampedusa, a refugee reception centre has been razed to the ground by tunisian refugees protesting at their imminent repatriation. the eu must have a fair but robust approach in dealing with this large influx of asylum seekers and, in my view, return – or help tunisia return, if they are still on north african soil – individuals to their country of origin in the large majority of cases. we must also redouble our efforts to apprehend those thuggish members of the ben ali, gaddafi and mubarak regimes, some of whom – bizarrely – may now be attempting to become bogus asylum seekers in the european union. they should face the criminal justice system if they have blood on their hands.
madam president, both the previous speakers mentioned me in their brief speeches, saying that these individuals cannot go back to their countries, and they specifically mentioned ethiopia and somalia. well, i managed to go freely both to ethiopia, three weeks ago, and to somaliland. if i can travel there, i cannot see why anybody cannot travel there if that is the nationality of origin of these individuals. my heart goes out to those in poverty but our role is to help these countries develop. we cannot accept economic migrants in unlimited numbers in our countries. they have to have a well-grounded fear of persecution to qualify as asylum seekers. it cannot just be on economic grounds.
the next item is the joint debate on– the commission statement on the future of the european globalisation fund, and– the report by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund (com(2011)0336 – c7-0161/2011 – 2011/0147(cod)) (a7-0308/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european globalisation adjustment fund was invented to persuade member states to adopt lisbon without national referendums, but this expensive project has insufficient checks. in antwerp, general motors claimed eur 9.5 million from the egaf. their redundant workers received eur 150 000 each and then some found work with volvo nearby. of the five countries with negative growth, three have put in no claims, while stronger economies have, with denmark, the netherlands and austria leading the way, and several more this week. many firms are closing due to trade moving to the far east. glasfiber in denmark closed because their manufacturer of wind turbines moved to china. this does not happen just because chinese workers are on low pay; indeed, on tuesday in this house, the commissioner discounted that. more to the point, he said, was that china’s central bank sets its own interest rates, while the exchange rates make chinese products more attractive on world markets. eu manufacturers will struggle on world markets if euro membership makes their products too expensive – ask greece!
mr president, there are two problems with the european globalisation adjustment fund: firstly, that it provides the european union with a responsibility that member states could much more appropriately fulfil themselves; and secondly, that it recognises that globalisation wreaks havoc with peoples’ livelihoods, but the eu does nothing to address the cause of the problem – which is globalisation itself. globalisation moves manufacturing from high labour-cost countries to low labour- cost countries, and floods the west with goods from those countries, destroying our manufacturing bases and taking the jobs of our workers. it would be very difficult to compete with low-wage economies without reducing our wage rates to the levels in those countries. we might hope to use technology in an attempt to compete, but our technology is often exported to countries that compete with us, or is bought and copied – infringing the western manufacturers’ patent rights. the countries of europe must individually or collectively – i would prefer individually – protect their industries and peoples from ruin and impoverishment.
mr president, crisis is an opportunity for evaluation and effective change, not an excuse to plough forward perpetuating more of the same. i do not support this resolution. i do not think the european globalisation adjustment fund is effective. why? it does not go to those member states most in need. we have already heard that germany, denmark, and the netherlands accounted for over 30% of applications, and they have good growth. in 2010 many countries with no growth made no applications – including greece. why? secondly, it targets the wrong people. those newly redundant are not those most in need; they are usually skilled and experienced and they are advantaged in the job market. we should be helping the young. this is where resources should go. this fund is entirely badly focused. rather than act now we should wait for a full evaluation of the fund. i hope we change our emphasis to the long-term unemployed and youth. we must also include this fund in the next financial perspective; it must not be allowed to continue as a de facto off-balance-sheet item.
ms girling, you have been challenged with a blue-card question from ms sinclaire. do you accept the question?
no, mr president, i will not accept ms sinclaire’s request for a blue-card question. i did not come here to give her oxygen.
mr president, on a point of order, i observe these proceedings quite a lot and i observed you yesterday. not once did you mention the name of the person who was offering the blue card. this is the first time you have done that. can i ask why?
ms sinclaire, i am not aware that i did not do so and i am sorry if you do not like to be named, but i felt it would be courteous to ms girling who could not see who was raising the card behind her. as a matter of fact, i do normally try and say who is raising the blue card, but i am also trying to spend less time talking from the chair. unfortunately you are making me do that now, which is cutting into other people’s speaking time.
mr president, i was disappointed that my conservative colleague refused to take my question earlier. i wanted to ask her if she shared my dismay that the uk government has not once made an application for risk funds. in my own region we lost a lot of jobs – over 2 000 in peugeot ryton – when they were relocated to slovakia, and we got no help with retraining. this is a eur 357 million budget so far since 2007, and as the second-largest contributor we should have surely got some of that back. i am wondering why our current government and our current prime minister, who talks about retraining and skills, have not applied for this. as one former conservative prime minister said: it is only asking for our own money back.
mr pirker, your concerns are noted. you were on the list but you are one of those unfortunately to whom i cannot give time. i am already under pressure because i have given time to too many colleagues from the floor.
thank you, mr kelly. ‘no’ is the answer to that question. i have already overrun the time for catch-the-eye. we are supposed to keep it to five minutes and i have given the floor to seven colleagues. as it happens, you would have been the next one and i apologise that i am not able to call you, but there is no other reason than that. i am sorry about that, but keep trying.
in writing. – the egf was designed as a tool for rapid intervention in the event of mass redundancies, with a view to preventing long-term unemployment in difficult labour market conditions; whereas the original aim of the egf as an instrument was to alleviate, within a short timeframe, acute and unforeseen labour market problems caused by the dismissal of a large number of workers either from big companies or from smes operating in a particular sector and in a particular region. the long-term europe 2020 objectives aimed at increasing employment and employability rates are supported by the european social fund. notwithstanding the limited funds available to it and the scale of the economic crisis europe faces the globalisation adjustment fund has played an important role in helping groups of workers adjust to new employment situations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commission for its statement today. it was very interesting. there is no disagreement between the commission and parliament on the inclusion of body scanners as an additional security measure in the fight against terrorism. however, i still have some concerns about the way we are moving forward. we know that technology is already available which addresses the health, privacy and data protection concerns of screened passengers and would avoid passenger exemptions. yet the implementing measures produced by the commission have failed to specify that the body image must be in the form of a stick figure, which colleagues have already raised. nor does it specify that backscatter radiation equipment is unacceptable to this parliament, especially when there are effective alternatives. in addition, commissioner, we need to raise our game in the areas of cross-border intelligence, counter-terrorism measures, the use of central reservation systems and, not least, passenger profiling in order to identify potential terrorists before they even reach our airports. it is essential that we find a more sophisticated way forward in the fight against terrorism. to achieve one-stop security we must have uniform rules applied in a harmonised and coherent manner across europe.
mr president, this is a debate that raises many emotive issues to do with human rights and, most importantly, security. one of the points i would make is that when anyone uses airports, they do so of their own free will, they do not have to do so; so they do actually voluntarily give up part of their liberties. it has been said that, to protect us all, some of us have to give up part of our liberties. i do however support the view that alternatives – such as searches – should be available. this issue has flummoxed this parliament and the commission for some time. in 2005, while this parliament was completely opposed to body scanners, the european union spent eur 725 000 on six body scanners that have never been used and are sitting in a car park in brussels. they are now obsolete, but you pay a yearly maintenance. this is another example of you saying one thing and asking people to do another. this should be a matter for member states. for christ’s sake spend money wisely, do not just throw it away! we have a shortage of money.
madam president, clearly from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and our group, the s&d, there were many serious civil liberty concerns. the commission proposal has, in fairness, taken into account much of the parliament’s position, apart from the point which was our insistence that stick images be used. the commission proposal does allow for body image technology to be used, but the image is to be blurred and obscured and of course the images will be remote. i have seen for myself in uk airports such as manchester how that remote image technology works. however, when passengers are given the choice to refuse to go through a security scanner they will be subject to alternative security procedures. these must be proportionate and must also fall within what is deemed to be proportionate measures. the proposal does give us, however, an eu-wide framework; it does set minimum standards. it will also prevent situations such as passengers being told that they cannot fly if they do not go through a security scanner at all, and it will ban the use of x-ray security due to serious health concerns. but the s&d reiterate the request made in july that common rules on the use of security scanners must be revised on a regular basis and when necessary adapted to improve the protection of fundamental rights, health, privacy and personal data in line with technological progress.
mr president, i am glad to say that, within the alde group, our representatives on the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs are united in our dissatisfaction with the commission’s implementing regulation, unlike in the two biggest groups where i seem to see some sort of discordance between their tran and libe arms. but we are united. i thoroughly agree with what ms meissner has said and agree with some other people, like ms foster for instance from the ecr group. it does seem to be a major missed opportunity that the commission has failed to advance best available technology. it may well be that, at the moment, there is only one supplier of stick images but, as has been said, once the regulations are set, you can be absolutely sure that other suppliers will pile into the market. therefore i find the commission decision frankly incomprehensible on both privacy and, indeed, technological grounds. we can have effective and more sophisticated security scanners that fully meet the privacy concerns, not only of the parliament but the european data protection supervisor, the fundamental rights agency and so on. you are still going to capture a naked body image. whatever is said about blurring or the reviewer being distant and so on, that is the fundamental problem and potential assault on both privacy and dignity. you have got the possibility of stick images with no human intervention. why has the commission missed this big opportunity to secure both technological advance and privacy? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, the answer is ‘no’, i do not accept that it removes all the privacy threats in the same way as stick images do. you are still capturing a nude, naked body image. i said that, even though there are supposedly safeguards about blurring the face and having the reviewer in a separate room, unfortunately when money is going to be involved the tabloid press – certainly the tabloid press in my country – will no doubt be bribing security guards to tip them off when someone famous is going through a security scanner. you will be able to evade those safeguards. only a stick image, which gives you an automatic detection, can fully safeguard privacy.
mr president, i thank the commission for its statement. i want to start by saying that i do not want to be seen as somebody who upsets liberal unity, but i would remind ms ludford that these proposals have actually come from a liberal commissioner. members will be aware of the positions taken by the committee on transport and tourism, both in its decision to agree with the commission’s recommendations in regard to security scanners, and in the excellent work done by mr de grandes pascual in his much wider report on aviation security. i believe there is a need for a harmonised system – that is eu-wide – to put an end to different security measures being taken at member state level, leading to anomalies that are confusing, inefficient and discriminatory. if you look at both the de grandes pascual report and the commission’s proposal, you will see that 90% of what this parliament demanded has been incorporated into those commission proposals. the one outstanding issue is the one relating to the image shown by the machine and this issue, in my opinion, has detracted from the fundamental issue, which is that of aviation security. yes, parliament would prefer stick figures; but the question we have to ask is: are we as a parliament prepared to throw out all the good things that are in that report purely on this issue? in my view that would be wrong. members from other committees may feel that individual liberties should take priority over security – and that is their right. but for me there is no greater civil liberty than for people to fly safely and securely without fear of being blown up, without fear of terrorist attack, which is why i am happy to agree with the commission’s proposals. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr simpson, you trot out that old canard that those of us who are concerned about privacy are somehow not interested in security. but what i think many of us in this debate are saying is that it is not necessary to choose between the two. we know that there is available technology – which the commission has failed to support – that would better ensure privacy, in the shape of stick-figure machines. do you accept that it is possible to reconcile security and privacy? in your capacity as chair of the committee on transport and tourism, will you try and advance that, instead of trying to trade off security against privacy and saying that those of us who are perhaps on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs do not care about security? because, believe me, we do care about security, and we fly as well.
mr president, first of all i, am not sure what a canard is but i will say this: as far as i am concerned, we all share the need for security and we all share the need for civil liberties to be protected. but what we have to get is a balance and what i think we have sometimes is a debate that focuses on the civil liberties issue rather than on the issue of aviation security. i, in my role as chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, am of course guided by the will of that committee, which is to support the commission’s proposals.
mr president, i just want to make a quick point to mr danellis – not points that ms ernst should have posed to the commission and not our colleague over there. as regards the health issues on the technology, would he agree that little emphasis has come from the commission on the concerns we have on the use of backscatter radiation equipment when we know there is alternative technology? and as regards the comments from the commission about them not choosing the technology – which we understand – we have raised enough points here to say we all know about competition for technology and if any company wants to compete then they have to be there first. but this is a definite health issue and would he agree with me that this has not been emphasised enough?
author. – mr president, the motion seeks to refer the protocol for an opinion to the court. the purpose of this, the sole purpose of this, is to test the compatibility of the agreement with our treaty obligation to respect the international law. the effect of the reference will not be to suspend the present agreement. the reference could set a precedent, but parliament has a clear duty to establish the integrity of all the treaties.
mr president, so this is how it ends. we are responding to the debt crisis by borrowing an almost literally unimaginable sum: two trillion euros, if the report is to be believed. our minds are not designed to comprehend figures on that scale. this goes completely off the chart. two questions immediately arise. first of all, who is going to stand as a guarantor to such a loan? ultimately the loan is supposed to be guaranteed by the european central bank, but the ecb has been buying what is normally classified as junk debt from various eurozone countries to the extent that it is in effect already a bad bank. so when we talk about the guarantors, we really mean the taxpayers, including the taxpayers of spain, italy, ireland, portugal and greece. second question: from whom are we going to borrow? if somebody had two trillion euros lying around do you not think they would have used it by now, given the circumstances of the past three years? the truth is we are borrowing from future generations. as the poet said, ‘god omnipotent is mustering (...) in his clouds armies of pestilence and they shall strike your children yet unborn and unbegot’. we are freighting future generations with an unprecedented level of debt. prevent it, resist it, let it not be so, lest child, child’s children cry against you woe!
mr president, i am a friend of israel but i am a critical friend of israel. i myself worked with the british government on the northern ireland peace process and it is illusory to believe in a military solution; it has to be a political solution, and that involves negotiation. legal settlements do not help that process. i do feel for the palestinian people who have been very badly treated; i do believe that they need a state living in peace with israel, side by side. however, i am not sure that this measure – which is a good negotiating tactic – of going straight to the un to create a state is the right way forward, so i abstained on this vote. however, i do wish that the peace process moves forward. i think that is essential. but only painstaking negotiation, as we saw in the northern ireland peace process, can bring a political solution of benefit to everyone.
in writing. − i voted for this report but very much regret that the uk is one of the few member states which does not use this fund to help redundant workers get back into employment.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which the european parliament recognises the legitimate demand of the palestinians to become a member state of the united nations. we reaffirm our commitment to a two-state solution with the state of israel and an independent state of palestine living side by side in peace and security.
in writing. − the common text of the resolution contains many provisions supported by the ecr group, including the text on the two-state solution, commitment to the security of israel, as well as calls for a cessation of rocket attacks on israel from the gaza strip and for stopping the construction of israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. the ecr group has repeatedly reiterated its support for the creation of an independent state of palestine and eventual full representation of the palestinian people in the united nations. however, this should be an outcome of direct negotiations between the palestinian authority and the state of israel conducted under the supervision of the quartet, and not of any unilateral steps taken by either side. we disagree with setting a fixed and rather unrealistic rushed timeframe of the 66th session of the un general assembly to come up with a ready solution. the final text is also missing any reference to hamas, which remains on the eu’s list of banned terrorist organisations and continuously rejects the quartet principles. this is the reason for which the ecr group abstained during the vote on the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in palestine.
in writing. − i am strongly supportive of a two-state solution to the israel/palestine question, but this has to be reached through negotiation, not provocation. i therefore abstained on parliament’s resolution on the situation in palestine specifically because, at paragraph 2, it supports the unilateral palestinian action at the un. this is a deliberate provocation and will not bring israel and the palestinian authority (pa) any closer. israel has said that she is willing to resume negotiations, but the pa has refused. every time israel has made a major concession in the peace process, this has been seen as a sign of weakness and the response has been further violence. for the security and prosperity of the palestinian and israeli peoples, the pa must resume negotiations with the israeli government immediately. the eu, as one of the pa’s largest financial backers, should be using its influence to insist that the pa returns to the negotiating table.
in writing. − i have supported the calls made in this important resolution as i strongly believe that a two-state solution is the only way to achieve a sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the eu must speak with one voice on this issue and we should support the palestinians in their attempt to be recognised at the un, whilst ensuring the safety of everyone living in the region. we must ensure that all eu governments play an active role and continue to give the strongest support to the quartet and the high representatives in their efforts to re-launch the peace process to reach a sustainable conclusion regarding this conflict.
in writing. − in general, we oppose the eu green agenda of climate alarmism and global governance by environmentalism. specifically, we oppose: rio20+ and the eu deciding uk water policy; rio20+ and the eu negotiating on the uk’s behalf over pollution of the ocean, maritime biodiversity, etc; the eu dictating rules of arctic oil exploration, or development of tar sands or oil shale; the eu dictating rules of global targets on renewable energy; the eu dictating rules of nuclear policy; the eu dictating rules of organic farming policy for anyone; concurring with the imf, world bank, un hltf, etc.; the eu impinging on the sovereign state of brazil in management of its own resources; the ‘tax on financial transactions’ via unfccc or any other route; eu tax policy or its shift from labour to ‘resource use’; large-scale geoengineering by the eu; the eu’s view on patents on life forms and living processes; the eu’s view on an international environmental court; the eu view on procedures for environmental disaster or with international status for climate refugees.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution on the rio earth summit, which urges the host nation brazil to make a clear commitment to protect the amazon forest and stem criminal harassment of representatives of civil society pursuing environmental protection.
in writing. − this resolution has used the example of the recent incident at the fukushima daiichi power plant to call for a phasing-out of existing nuclear power plants and opposing the building of any new nuclear power stations. only one member state has proposed a phasing-out of nuclear reactors since the incident at fukushima and i cannot support any policy that would see this implemented across the eu while nuclear power currently provides around 30% of the eu’s energy supply and employs thousands of workers across europe. i also note that the declaration also warns against any offshore oil exploration in the arctic zone, as i was shadow rapporteur on a recent report dealing with this issue i feel this is a conflicting motion.
in writing. − voted for this report and strongly support the european globalisation adjustment fund as a tool to show practical solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs due to globalisation related restructuring.
in writing. − i welcome the result of today's resolution to extend the european globalisation adjustment fund crisis measures until the end of 2013, but am disappointed that the proposal to give the egaf its own budget line was rejected. now, more than ever, we need this fund to help find new jobs for workers who have been made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. this fund has proved vital since it came in to being in 2007, providing assistance for workers all across europe, affected by both globalisation and the crisis. however, some member states, like the uk, have not yet used the egaf and i welcome the position taken today in the resolution to urge the commission to investigate the reasons for this. finally, i agree that the commission needs to clarify its plans for extending the scope of the egaf to agricultural sectors before any decisions can be taken.
in writing. − i voted for this report in order to give the court a chance to comment on the legality of this agreement.
in writing. − i have received conflicting advice and information, which i have been unable to reconcile before the vote, on the merits of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement and on the effects of referral to the european court of justice (ecj). many issues are implicitly raised – the status of western sahara; the relationship with the kingdom of morocco including its support for the middle east peace process and help in combating shared threats such as illegal migration and terrorism; the extent to which the united kingdom, its fishermen and consumers, benefit from such eu partnership agreements; and whether sahrawians have more to gain than lose from such agreements. i therefore abstained.
mr president, in view of the news this morning that the american government has uncovered a plot by the iranians to assassinate the ambassador from saudi arabia in washington dc, together with the news that another 300 prisoners have been transferred to death row expecting imminent execution – and these are people, mostly students, who were arrested during the uprisings in teheran and other cities in iran – i think it is a deeply retrograde step that this house, that the conference of presidents, has agreed to send a delegation to teheran in two or three weeks time. i think iran is now beyond the pale; to give them that kind of publicity, to give them that kind of oxygen is completely wrong. we should think again about that conference of presidents’ decision. (applause)
mr schulz, in your speech you advocated treaty changes and new treaties to achieve further integration. is it your position that further treaties and/or treaty changes should be endorsed by referendums, or not?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am always prepared to accept that i might be wrong and i thought the democratic revolution against this euro lunacy was confined to northern europe, but now we see that slovakia has joined it and i must say what a wonderful result that was last night in slovakia. i am sure many of you here will agree. it has produced, i think, the quote of the crisis. richard sulik who led the rebels said: ‘i would rather be a pariah in brussels than have to feel ashamed before my children who would be deeper in debt’. well i know how he feels because i have been somewhat of a pariah here perhaps for the last 10 years, but he has got it right because he summed up the detachment between brussels and the real people of the european union. listening to this debate today it is almost as if this debate has been going on inside a padded cell that is the european parliament, as people compete for who can be the most stupid; who can waste the maximum amount of taxpayers’ money. i really do think as a political class you are all wrong, and you are all wrong democratically because nobody has ever given consent for this behaviour. when people vote ‘no’; when the french vote ‘no’, you ignore them. when the dutch vote ‘no’, you ignore them. when the irish vote ‘no’, you say vote again and get it right. when slovakia votes ‘no’, we are told today it will all be ok because they can vote again this week until they get the right answer. we have 17 countries trapped inside this economic prison of the eurozone and all you can do, mr barroso, is stand up and say: we need more power. people like you – who have been the architect of this failure, the architect of the misery that is being inflicted upon millions – want more power. it is like barroso in the bunker, unaware of what is happening in the outside world, but planning world domination. in economic terms it is getting madder and madder. i hear that the new idea is that the bail-out fund will be multiplied, geared up times five, by the european central bank so that you have got your two trillion, mr verhofstadt. two trillion – good god! greece is going bankrupt. if you lot continue, the whole banking system in europe is going to go bankrupt. the former british chancellor of the exchequer, norman lamont, this morning described the attempts to save the euro as the most gigantic ponzi scheme. i am tempted to think he is right.
mr president, the euro is facing a clear and present danger and the eu is facing one of its greatest tests. it must act responsibly but it should act within its own clear, current competences and the way forward for the eurozone must be found by the eurozone members. meanwhile the commission is occupying too much of its time with distractions such as the financial transaction tax or with financial services reforms that could dry up liquidity when it is most needed rather than pursuing the vital competitiveness or deregulation which president barroso has historically proposed. while action is so desperately needed, we wait. as europe’s banks become ever more threatened, the council postponed its summit in order to further analyse the situation of greece. following the vote in slovakia on tuesday we are still awaiting the ratification of the new powers of the european financial stability facility. action is needed; it must be decisive. we need a plan to recapitalise europe’s banks. in the medium term member states need to adopt credible plans to ensure that they can live within their means and generate economic growth. the people of europe are expecting answers to these problems. time is short.
mr president, i have been pleased by much that president barroso has said today but i think we will have to check against delivery. the problem with the eurozone is a problem of political credibility more than economic fundamentals. the financial markets are nervous because they doubt the ability of europe’s leaders to take action. there are two problems with europe’s response to the crisis: first it has always been too little, too late. europe’s problems need a european solution, and piecemeal national approaches will not do the trick. the second has been a lack of strategy for growth. the markets understand that there is no route out of deficit and debt without a credible growth strategy, and the failure of europe’s leaders has been to act as though fiscal austerity alone is a solution. but without demand, there is no growth; without growth there is no return to sound finances. that is why the resolution – which i believe parliament will adopt overwhelmingly tomorrow – insists on a meaningful plan for investment, growth and jobs. council must also produce a clear response to two other urgent issues: the greek situation and the recapitalisation of the banks. on greece: the papandreou government has displayed enormous courage and commitment in driving through huge painful changes. greece now has a right to expect solidarity from the eu without further delay. the council must now give final improvement to the long awaited package of support. on bank recapitalisation: our message is ‘yes’ we need decisive and coordinated european action to ensure the security of europe’s banks, but we say ‘no’ to an unconditional bail-out. as others have said: if public money rescues the banks, the growth and employment imperatives must be fully reflected in the conditions set. one condition must be a clear commitment from the banks to boost lending to the real, productive economy. public funds must not finance excessive remuneration and speculation. a final point: if the european financial stability facility (efsf) had been established under community rules we could now be agreeing expanding efsf lending capacity instead of still trying to implement a decision made three months ago. we need a european answer to this crisis.
mr president, these are very difficult times, both for countries within the eurozone and for those outside it. for those of us who concentrate on the difficulties in the eurozone, i want to draw the attention of this house to my part of the united kingdom and to the plight of construction workers and companies there who are suffering dreadfully because of the lack of liquidity in the market in the republic of ireland, and because they cannot service the debt that originates in the construction sector there. i have spoken to commissioner rehn on this issue previously and yet i do not see much action that will actually help these people with their plight. i have not heard anything today that is really new or that will move this situation on significantly. i want to end with two pieces of advice. firstly, i do not believe that the commission can actually resolve the eurozone debt crisis by a raid on the sovereignty of member states and a financial transaction tax that would significantly affect the city of london. secondly, with regard to mr cameron, i would point out that any treaty change must be followed by a referendum in the united kingdom.
mr president, i welcome this road map outline and i hope that additional detail is coherent, substantial and sustainable. i have run out of expressions to convey urgency to ministers and leaders, but to reuse what i put to commissioner rehn during a debate at the imf: ‘think big, and get it done’. all of it: that includes banks, backstops, greece, firepower, flexibility, sustainability and growth. they are all needed as the bridge to confidence. everyday we see the schism that has developed between what governments will have to do and public sentiment. this is a time for leadership, for putting cause before self. the consequences of not doing so will be far more destructive to politicians if they fail to protect the fabric of our society. it is vital that while reinforcing economic governance within the euro area we do not jeopardise cohesiveness of the wider union and the single market. so i endorse a strong role for the commission, obliged to represent all sides and the whole – a theme that must be developed within community method in parallel with euro area integration.
mr president, economic policy should be in the hands of member states but, even from an eu perspective, eu economic policy is seriously flawed. the doomed euro experiment must be abandoned and national currencies must be allowed to find levels appropriate to the demand for their exports and imports. interest rates must once again be set by the 17 eurozone states according to the needs of their distinctive economies. the eu and its member states must treat globalisation as the threat to the developed world that it really is. manufacturing industry must be rebuilt and protected from unfair competition from emerging economies like china with its undervalued currency, suppressed wage rates and appalling working conditions. we should end the policy of subsidising banks in the vain hope that they might lend some of their ill-gotten gains. reflation must be brought about by government spending into circulation and not by banks creating credit and lending it into circulation.
i have received three motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 september. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by renate weber, sophia in ’t veld, alexander alvaro, cecilia wikström, sarah ludford, filiz hakaeva hyusmenova, stanimir ilchev, louis michel, metin kazak, sonia alfano and gianni vattimo, on behalf of the alde group (o-000218/2011 – b7-0628/2011),– the oral question to the council on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by cornelia ernst, willy meyer and marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-000221/2011 – b7-0629/2011),– the oral question to the commission on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by cornelia ernst, willy meyer and marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-000222/2011 – b7-0630/2011),– the oral question to the council on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by claude moraes, ioan enciu and iliana malinova iotova, on behalf of the s&d group (o-000223/2011 – b7-0439/2011),– the oral question to the council on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by marian-jean marinescu, andrey kovatchev, carlos coelho, mariya nedelcheva, monica luisa macovei, elena oana antonescu, simon busuttil, georgios papanikolaou and manfred weber, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000224/2011 – b7-0440/2011),– the oral question to the commission on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen by marian-jean marinescu, andrey kovatchev, carlos coelho, mariya nedelcheva, monica luisa macovei, elena oana antonescu, simon busuttil, georgios papanikolaou and manfred weber, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000225/2011 – b7-0621/2011),– the oral question to the council on the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area by mara bizzotto, on behalf of the efd group (o-000234/2011 – b7-0631/2011),– the oral question to the commission on the entry of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area by mara bizzotto, on behalf of the efd group (o-000235/2011 – b7-0632/2011).
author. − mr president, the socialist and democrat group also begins with the premise that schengen is a cornerstone of the european union and therefore we should not create a two-tier situation in relation to the member states of the european union. the continuing delay and blocking by member states, in particular the netherlands and finland, of romania and bulgaria joining the schengen acquis risks creating that two-tier system for eu member states. bulgaria and romania have met the criteria to join schengen, the same criteria that were applied to each member state that has previously joined the acquis. furthermore, this has been judged and verified by the independent expert eu committee, yet some member states are now taking the political initiative of blocking their accession on the basis that they have serious levels of corruption and organised crime. of course corruption and organised crime are serious issues, but the approach to these serious issues is disingenuous and is creating a problem with one of the key principles of the european union and its freedoms. the eu has an ongoing evaluation mechanism to judge organised crime and corruption, but we must not pervert that mechanism in creating a two-tier system for these countries. the member states should be treated equally and fairly. we work hard to tackle all forms of discrimination and we have to ensure that we do not allow for the creation of a subsidiarity position for romania and bulgaria. of course we welcome efforts to strengthen and improve the schengen acquis; re-evaluating any legislation is necessary to improve it and adapt it to be able to best respond to current demands and situations. however, the rules that we create must also be respected by all member states in council. it should not be that we negotiate eu legislation which is then ignored by some member states and council. we have to strengthen schengen and ensure that an instrument which was created for solidarity purposes across the eu – for the freedom of individuals across the eu – is not now used to divide it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the eu is based on the rule of law; romania and bulgaria have passed the schengen tests. it is unfair and invidious to allow populist nationalism to move the goalposts. of course we need stricter tests for schengen participation. in fact it is a disgrace that member states which insisted on keeping charge of setting the criteria failed to insert anti-corruption, the independence of judges and fighting mafia crime into them. that is what we need to do from now on, so new and existing schengen members are properly evaluated and, if necessary, sanctioned. but for the time being apply the rules. finally it makes no sense to exclude the uk from the schengen evaluation process. the uk is not in the border-free arrangements, but it will be in the schengen information system and ought to be included in scrutiny, otherwise other schengen states cannot evaluate the uk.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, suggesting there are flaws in a system and acknowledging weaknesses is not intended as an attack on any member state or the achievements of the schengen area, but instead the logical conclusion from reflecting on a system which is no longer working properly or responding to modern challenges. some member states have shown their reservations about bulgaria and romania joining the schengen area – and they do this despite the romanian and bulgarian people having worked so incredibly hard to meet the criteria that have been set for them – but calling those reservations xenophobic or racist as we heard a moment ago is a cheap and unworthy suggestion. unfortunately, romania and bulgaria are the victims of the current criteria which are outdated and lack coordination with modern european concerns, concerns which should rightfully include corruption and organised crime. we have the resources through europol, eurojust and frontex – and indeed olaf – to improve the system, to find a better way forward by making sure that member states are ready to join. by ignoring this reality, we do ourselves, the schengen area and the member states in question a gross disservice.
i am reminded of the old saying ‘it must be right; i read it in the newspaper.’
i have received two motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 october. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in yemen, bahrain, syria and egypt.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, earlier this year the egyptian army played a crucial role in forcing the resignation of president mubarak, after refusing orders to shoot protestors – thus making egypt’s move towards democracy far less bloody than the transition in libya, where the pro-gaddafi forces have proved resilient, requiring nato intervention to tip the balance. we all hope in this house that sirte falls soon to the transitional national council. however, the most recent reports coming from egypt of the deaths of dozens of coptic christians who were protesting peacefully and killed as a result of a brutal overreaction by the security forces, are shocking and need investigation. there is concern both in tunisia and in egypt over the rise of hardline salafist influences now, and therefore in my view the more moderate islamist elements of the muslim brotherhood in egypt need engaging with and need to be made to understand that they must pledge to respect international obligations made by egypt on human rights if they are elected to power. the brutal repression of the syrian uprising by contrast has led tragically to 3 000 deaths so far, with president assad sadly refusing to go and appealing to minorities such as his own set, the alawites, and the christians to resist the sunni-led insurgency. the eu must now support the freezing of syrian assets in europe, ban oil imports and lean more on russia and china in the security council for support with the hope of speeding up the syrian national council’s bid to topple the ba’athist regime. yemen’s traditional alliance with the us against al-qa’ida is laudable but the regime is authoritarian. street protestors have called for un aid in forcing ali abdullah saleh from power now, but the ecr welcomes the fact that the cases of medics jailed in bahrain for instance for treating injured protestors are now due to be reviewed, which will give some credibility to the bahraini monarchy’s quest for democracy. the ecr calls on the eu to mobilise all available means to the middle east and north african countries, including direct aid and loan finance for investment, but conditional on respect for human rights and democracy. lastly our political parties here in this house must share their experience in order to establish secular, democratic choices for the people of that region.
mr president, we return tonight, without apology, to the countries of the arab world where transition has not yet started but where the demand for it is urgent and, sadly, deadly. as a european union we must heed the failure of the latest session of the un human rights council to agree the decisive action needed to provide real protection and support for the region’s democracy protestors. concerning yemen, where the situation is deteriorating, full military force is now being used against peaceful protestors, yet the resolution passed in the un fails to form any conclusion about responsibility for rights violations or to back the high commissioner’s request to establish a presence in that country. we must heed, too, the new evidence from the world food programme of the starvation and hunger affecting that country. concerning syria, we should note the formation of the new opposition syrian national council and that the high commissioner again called for referrals to the international criminal court, which were not backed in the un. interestingly, egypt, as well as russia and china, sought to obstruct the commission of inquiry that was set up. concerning egypt, i join with others in this debate to condemn the violence, with witness statements showing that security forces opened fire on protestors and ran them over in armoured cars. i myself have told the egyptian ambassador that i was present in cairo for the constitutional referendum and welcomed the warmth and affection shown by people experiencing their first taste of genuine democracy, so i just do not accept that public opposition is a barrier to the eu mounting an electoral mission which could help entrench that democracy for the future. finally, i would hope that vice-president/high representative ashton will also comment, in her winding-up, on the report from amnesty international which states that peaceful protestors outside syrian embassies in our own countries – france, germany, spain, sweden and the uk – have been threatened, intimidated and physically attacked by individuals believed to be connected to the syrian regime. in the un we can do better to protect civilians in the arab world. here in the european union itself we have no excuse not to do so.
mr president, the kingdom of bahrain and the united kingdom have a shared history rooted in friendship and cooperation, and that friendship, ranging from our military links to excellent trade relations and close diplomatic ties, has benefitted both our nations. however, in order to fulfil our role as a friend of bahrain we must be honest and when things go wrong we must say so clearly. so we are now saying clearly to bahrain that we demand respect for human rights and the upholding of political freedom. the conviction and sentencing of 20 doctors and nurses who treated injured protestors was appalling. i am pleased that, following the intervention of the international community, the bahraini government has nullified those sentences. i agree with ms harkin that the prosecutions should now be dropped. i welcome the establishment of an independent commission composed of international figures to look into the events of recent months and into allegations of human rights abuses, and i join with baroness ashton in saying that what bahrain requires is a genuine dialogue between government and opposition. we look to the bahraini authorities to take action to inject real confidence into that process.
madam president, the tymoshenko ruling is a travesty: the charges were politically motivated and the sentence shows that president yanukovych believes the world will stand idly by while he imprisons his political opponents through the use of selective justice. this cannot be allowed to happen on our doorstep. i am one of ukraine’s closest friends and i sincerely want to see the country move closer to the european union. however, the actions of president yanukovych are doing a great disservice to his people by jeopardising ukraine’s deep and comprehensive free trade area and visa liberalisation agreements. yanukovych foolishly believes that this kind of neo-soviet behaviour, using stalin-era legislation, is acceptable in the modern era. i last saw yulia tymoshenko earlier this year and she was very concerned about her future. the world will now be watching to ensure that she is treated humanely and that her right to appeal is honoured by the judicial system, which is clearly not independent in ukraine. the eu should continue to engage with ukraine by telling its government the truth: that manipulating the judiciary is totally contrary to our values.
mr president, is mr stoyanov suggesting that we, as a democratic body, do not have the right to challenge a corrupt judiciary which uses justice selectively to topple a democratically-elected politician and to stop her standing for public office in future against the incumbent president of ukraine? that is absurd. if we see miscarriages of justice, or we suspect that the laws being used come from the stalinist era, then it is our duty and responsibility to point this out to everybody in the world. i am shocked that mr stoyanov thinks otherwise.
madam president, please pass on my thanks to the rapporteur for his work. i know that mr skinner would like to see a coherent cross-border framework for consumer protection insurance, and i thank him for balancing this with much member state discretion and respecting subsidiarity. however, i will not vote for his report. the cost of insurance is rising in many countries and in many sectors. insurers today face low returns on asset portfolios and increased solvency requirements, but with higher claim rates and more exposure to fraud, while in some sectors costs are added by the gold-plating of claims packages. all these costs were added even before commissioner reding drove headlong into the women drivers debate. we do risk insurance becoming simply unaffordable, especially for those on lower incomes, and too often the commission will bring forward legislation that adds costs but has little real benefit. i want to wait and see what the commission’s proposals are in this area before making a judgement. fundamentally, what is the benefit of offering additional consumer protection for insurance products if we leave behind a raft of consumers who cannot afford to buy insurance products in the first place?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, may i start by thanking our rapporteur, mr casa, for his diligent work on this report. any report on taxation is likely to be controversial because the right to levy tax is one of the fundamental powers of a sovereign state. that is why so many in this chamber, including the commissioner, want the eu to have the power to levy taxes on our citizens and why we conservatives do not. this report deals with vat and there are many aspects of it that i welcome. i am pleased that the references to the financial transaction tax and other eu own resources were removed. i like mr casa’s focus on reducing administrative burdens and costs for our businesses. the report also recognises that any new vat proposals must be fraud-proof and help, in particular, to end carousel fraud. i am happy to see our governments in the council adopting a more coordinated approach towards vat. it is another important step towards the efficient functioning of the single market. where i disagree with this report is over the call made, in paragraph 46, for member states to increase the level of tax harmonisation. coordination between sovereign states is one thing, harmonisation by the eu is another. this is not a proposal with which my group can agree, because of our belief that the right to levy taxes and to decide how they are levied should remain with the nation states.
madam president, vat is sometimes called a luxury tax, yet it is a luxury for those who can afford it. those who are the highest earners in society know how to avoid paying vat, while the poorest in society seem to have to bear the brunt, whether on domestic fuel or general household goods. it has a cost to the uk taxpayer of almost gbp 15 billion a year which is transferred from the uk to the european union in vat payments, and governments of all persuasions in the uk forget to actually advertise that vat is an eu tax, or an eu-inspired tax. we can no longer support this and this is not a tax that should be on an eu scale. it should be for a national government to decide what sales tax it should have and all revenue should stay within the member state. the example that i have already alluded to is the vat on domestic fuel. now this was a political hot potato in the uk in the early 1990s. the then conservative government lost a lot of political credibility when it tried to increase vat to 15%. it never explained once that it had to do it because of eu membership. the then labour opposition criticised this tax as being an affront to poor people; yet when labour came to power in 1997 did they abolish it? no. the chancellor of the exchequer, gordon brown, had to come here cap in hand to ask permission to reduce it to 5%. so what happened to it being a tax on ordinary people? this vat is a scam on the ordinary working class people of my country and should be abolished at an eu level.
madam president, the rapporteur describes lack of harmonisation as a particular problem, or shortcoming, of vat. i cannot agree that this is a problem at all. taxes are levied primarily to gain revenue and secondarily to have economic or social effects. taxes are not levied to look pretty or harmonious. each country has its own spending agenda and perceived economic and social needs, and it is they who should determine tax rates. we should not levy taxes for the sake of doing so or so that they are the same as in neighbouring countries. i would not reform vat, i would replace it with a simple but variable sales tax. flat-rate vat is a regressive tax because it is paid disproportionately by the less affluent with their high marginal propensity to consume. the zero-rated and exempt items make vat less regressive than it would otherwise be. however, i suspect that those items would become victims of harmonisation. furthermore, harmonisation would be impossible to escape were it to be effected by a regulation rather than by a directive.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, a lot of what i was going to say has been said. i totally agree with what daniel caspary said. we are at a crucial stage in the world economic crisis and the us has g20 commitments to which it must adhere. we should be working together to bring both our economics together in difficult circumstances. furthermore, the us should be further integrating its economy into those of the western world, especially those with whom it shares values. this is because of the rise in asia. daniel touched on some of the problems there. let me just remind the commissioner – who said that commissioner de gucht had made an agreement a year ago – for public procurement in the us there is a 25% tariff on anything that goes in from outside the united states. if that is shared values then there is something wrong. i am going to ask the commission if it can answer two questions. does the commission consider closer economic integration towards a transatlantic market place a realistic goal? what action does the commission intend to take to develop, together with the united states, an involving comprehensive transatlantic growth and jobs initiative, which would include plans to remove the remaining non-tariff barriers to trade and investment in 2020, the so-called ‘transatlantic market’, and to take steps towards zero tariff levels in some product areas? while i have been in this parliament – and i have been involved in the committee on international trade for quite a while – there has been an ongoing battle with the united states over boeing and airbus. the wto ruled recently in airbus’s favour. what has happened? what has the commission done to ensure the survival of the european industry? it is vital for jobs at a time when the economy is suffering. i call upon the commission to look further. i see the commissioner is leaving now, so he cannot answer the questions. i will leave it, madam president.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, it is a shame that the commissioner has gone. he would learn so much from me, since, unlike most of the people here, i actually have commercial experience. i have actually run companies. i actually know what i am talking about. i am going to talk about jobs now. we have 40% youth unemployment in parts of the european union, and it is being suggested by people here that this is some sort of act of god. it is not an act of god: it is sheer, unadulterated incompetence. look at what the eu is doing. look at the barriers it is putting in front of companies, and particularly small and medium-sized companies, preventing them from employing people. we have minimum wages. we have pensions. we have holiday entitlements. we have a job tax – called national insurance in my country – which is absolutely huge, so the employee does not actually get half the money that is being paid by the employer. trying to get rid of lazy and incompetent workers is virtually impossible, so sacking people is very difficult. and if you cannot hire, you cannot fire, so you lose flexibility. we have maternity leave, paternity leave, stress leave and all the rest of the nonsense that is invented by people here who have absolutely no commercial experience at all. it is not an accident that we have 40% of our young people unemployed: it is your fault. and let me remind you of liberty of contract. in a free society, we should have liberty of contract so that an employer and an employee can get together, sign a contract and get on with their lives without interference from this place. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i would like to ask godfrey bloom a question. i do not live very far from where he lives and i thought he understood that i ran a business. in fact i run a number of businesses and ran them before i came to this parliament. you obviously did not hear what i was talking about, godfrey. we are actually talking about america, not about the united kingdom. we are talking about the impositions. my industries and my businesses are directly affected by decisions taken in the jobs act of america and i would like to ask godfrey why he assumes that every speaker has never had a business background.
madam president, mr sturdy is an eminent businessman very close to where i live. he is one of the few exceptions and i apologise to him. (laughter)
madam president, whilst i have doubts about the effectiveness of the american jobs bill – if it is enacted – it is heartening that the president understands the problem, if not the solution. president obama, in his press conference announcing the bill, summed up the problem succinctly. in maine there is a bridge that is in bad shape, with bits falling off it. meanwhile, there are millions of laid-off construction workers who could be busy rebuilding roads, bridges and schools. we nationalists have a saying: ‘whatever is physically possible must be financially possible. if it is not, the financial system is at fault’. any reflationary injection must be spent into circulation and must not be credit-created by the banks and lent into circulation. the problem with all such reflationary measures is that injections of money precede – sometimes by years – the resulting increase in gdp and are therefore inflationary. this effect might be reduced by partly-deferred payments to recipients of reflationary spending.
madam president, we had yesterday the published reform of the common agricultural policy; spending on the cap is not going to be cut in absolute terms and in proportionate terms it is going to have a massive cut from 40 % of the budget to 38 point something. my point is not to rehearse all of the manifold failings of that system: the wanton damage it does to developing countries, in africa in particular; the ecological cataclysm that it has caused in europe with the felling of hedgerows; the encouraging of pesticides and chemical fertilizers; or indeed the way in which it penalises the poor both through their taxes and through higher prices. my point is that such a system has shown itself to be incapable of reform. we delude ourselves when we think that we can get in and argue our case, and be reasonable, and change these bureaucracies and these mechanisms into something different from what they were set up to be. we have reached the point where there is no point in persuading ourselves that we need more treatment, more antibiotics. we have to face the reality that amputation is now the only way to save ourselves.
madam president, i wonder whether in the middle of the fifth century, roman philosophers and governors debated whether the solution to their problems was not more government, and more rapacious provincial governors, and higher taxes, and more uniformity and harmonisation, and, if necessary, the importation of goths to do the work which it was no longer profitable for romans to do. if they did, the evidence has been lost, but perhaps one day, scavenging over the remains of western civilisation, some future archaeologist might stumble upon the speech which the president of the european commission gave yesterday, where he decided that the solution to europe’s debt problems was more of what had caused it: more debt, more centralisation, higher taxes. given the magnitude of events that we are debating, all of these further agglomerations of power by central government do seem extraordinary. we are consigning this part of the world to utter economic irrelevance while on our borders more virile nations are growing and taking up the slack. altogether elsewhere, vast herds of reindeer move across miles and miles of golden moss, silently and very fast.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report which is necessary because of a 2002 ruling by the court of justice of the european union that aspects of the eu’s external policy in the field of aviation did not comply with eu law. in the case in point, cape verde has signed eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which must be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement at eu level. more specifically, this single agreement contains the following: article 2 of the agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with an eu designation clause, permitting all european union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment. the article governs designation, authorisation and revocation of authorisation and clearly states that in exercising its rights, cape verde shall not discriminate between air carriers of member states on the grounds of nationality. article 4 concerns the taxation of aviation fuel, which must conform to the provisions of council directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products. under article 5, eu competition rules take precedence over the existing provisions of bilateral agreements
in writing. − i welcome this report by my friend peter skinner. insurance guarantee schemes (igs) are considered a valuable tool in reducing the risks facing policyholders in the event of the failure of an insurance entity. parliament has repeatedly demonstrated its support for consideration of an eu level approach (solvency ii, article 242; eiopa, article 26), and your rapporteur supports in principle the proposals put forward by the commission in its white paper on a directive for insurance guarantee schemes (published july 2010), seeing them not least as consequential for the success of solvency ii. the issue of igs is complex on account of the wide variation in existing schemes across eu member states and the interaction between igs and other issues currently under consideration at eu level, most prominently the imminent introduction of solvency ii.
in writing. − this report looks at how the eu can play its part in ensuring robust insurance guarantee schemes as a way of reducing the risks facing policyholders in the event of the failure of an insurance company. this report looks to strengthen consumer protection in four main areas: ensuring consumers are protected in the event of bankruptcy; ensuring the equal treatment of consumers regardless of the country of the insurer; ensuring that there is sufficient cover for consumers in cases of fraud; and making sure that the taxpayer does not become liable for the bankruptcy of an insurer. this protection will apply to all types of insurance policy and provides protection from the gung-ho attitude of some financial institutions with the public’s money.
in writing. − the vat system, which is based on legislation adopted at european level and applied at national level, suffers from numerous shortcomings which do not make it fully efficient and compatible with the requirements of a true single market. this report, which i voted for, suggests some improvements. the measures that have been suggested in the report include: abolishing the annual summarising of vat returns and intra-eu acquisition listings; reducing the frequency of the periodic vat returns; simplifying the proof required for vat export exemptions; abolishing ‘nil’ intra-eu sales listings; increasing the use of e-government solutions, in particular for the electronic submission of vat returns and lists; abolishing interest and penalty payments on vat related to errors of form if the individual legal entity has not caused the member state in question to suffer any shortfalls in revenue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council recommendation to appoint jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank;
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that, on the whole, the extended mandate of the eib will allow much better coordination for achieving the eu’s goals, considerably more accountability and transparency and a better use of the eu budgetary guarantee.
in writing. − i voted for this decision which permits the european union to subscribe for additional callable shares in the ebrd in the framework of the capital increase decided by the ebrd board of governors on 14/15 may 2010. the decision will also authorise the governor of the ebrd for the european union to deposit the requisite instrument of subscription
in writing. − i voted for this proposal for a regulation to address the fact that the european union needs to transpose into union legislation article 10 of the united nations protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organised crime. the un protocol, negotiated and signed by the commission on 16 january 2002 on behalf of the european community, makes provision in article 10 for stronger controls on the exporting, importing and third-country transit measures of firearms for civilian use, their parts, components and ammunition. article 10 provides that, ‘each state party shall establish or maintain an effective system of export and import licensing or authorization, as well as of measures on international transit, for the transfer of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition’.
in writing. − i welome the new rules to control the cross-border movement of firearms for civilian use in the eu. this regulatory framework will introduce more effective controls, with the aim of combating the manufacture and trafficking of firearms by outlining the need for exporters to be issued with a licence to export firearms and ammunition to non-eu countries. introducing more transparency to keep track of weapons and to fight illegal trafficking is a promising step in the aftermath of the tragic events in norway a few months ago.
in writing. − parliament in its resolution of 26 november 2009 on the 2009 enlargement strategy concerning the western balkan countries, iceland and turkey called on the commission to make every possible effort to mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on the western balkans. termination of the trade preferences would take from the beneficiaries an objective economic advantage in their trade with the eu. this could have negative consequences on the overall economic performance of the western balkans, with consequent negative repercussions on their domestic reform and transition processes. moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised. that is why i strongly support the amendment of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 december 2015 and make certain adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the european council to, among other things, come up with a meaningful european growth, investment and jobs plan that also includes project bonds.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on all member states to honour their commitments under the eu legal framework as regards the schengen accession criteria, and not to give priority to national populism.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 12.10)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. − mr president, we on the petitions committee are well aware of concerns about this issue because of the many submissions and petitions we receive on the subject. all those who have full enjoyment of their faculties may be forgiven for easily forgetting or not realising the difficulties faced by people with disabilities. i learnt this lesson myself when i faced the loss of sight in one eye because of a detached retina. that was relatively easily fixed and i was very fortunate, whereas many millions are not so fortunate because they have permanent disabilities. our opinion is about encouraging good practice, but we must all be aware of the challenge we face in delivering promises and therefore be wary of raising hopes that we may not be able to afford in these difficult economic times.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, increasing the level of mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities is a laudable and, i believe, an achievable objective. we are told that the current economic crisis has had a disproportionately negative impact on people from marginalised groups: unemployment rates for europe’s 80 million people with disabilities are twice as high as those for people without. thus the issue needs to be addressed with some urgency, but i cannot agree with the commissioner that this can only be achieved at eu level. i very much support the direction of this report but believe that it goes too far in calling for unnecessary initiatives at supranational level. we should not use the current crisis as a reason for increasing bureaucracy and red tape. in this report we call for, among other things, the creation of a european disability board, but without any clear setting-out of what such a board should do, other than that it should meet regularly. the calls on member states to adopt legal and financial measures to support the employment of disabled people and the call for detailed measures on institutional care and provision of housing benefits stray well into member states’ territory. i would be happy with a statement of general principles, but this report is far too detailed and prescriptive and risks creating a tangled bureaucracy where simplicity would be a better remedy. initiatives for increasing the employment opportunities for those with disabilities must come from member states, each able to adapt to its own national traditions and social customs. legislation which tries to help everyone, with its overarching supranational one-size-fits-all nature, often helps none.
mr president, there are eight million people with some form of disability in the eu, and this report covers numerous important issues. it is right to focus on long-term investment for people with disabilities, to look towards social inclusion and to look at problems faced in terms of healthcare. but it needs to go further. if the european parliament is serious in protecting the rights of people with disabilities, it should deal with the issue in the same way it now deals with women’s rights. i have long held the belief that the focus of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality is too narrow. it is time for the rights of other vulnerable groups to be covered by this committee. i believe we need a committee on equalities, which will help deal with discrimination that is based on gender, ethnicity, age, disability and sexual orientation. that would be a truly bold move which would offer support to people with disabilities as well as other groups that are often treated unfairly.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report, particularly the paragraphs focusing on the need to ensure equal participation for people with disabilities in public life. in my experience, i believe that real change and real inclusivity will not come until we ensure adequate political participation both as voters and as elected representatives. when you look around this parliament, it is clear that this balance is something that we have yet to achieve here in europe. as this report rightly points out, equal opportunities cannot be seen as treating people with different needs just the same. here, i believe that we in europe have much to learn from our african neighbours. uganda and south africa and others have policies of quotas in public posts for those with disabilities. it is clear to me that the current under-representation of people with disabilities across all eu member states means that we need more than wishful thinking. this report stops short of calling for quotas, but i believe that we must take this step if we are to achieve proportional representation for european citizens who live with disabilities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 25 october 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by heide rühle, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on modernisation of public procurement (2011/2048(ini)) (a7-0326/2011).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − madam president, the current rules on public procurement are rigid, complicated and burdensome. this review is most timely and a welcome opportunity to rectify this situation. public procurement is a key market-based instrument which is a vital factor in fostering sustainable employment and can also be geared towards innovative solutions to environmental and social concerns. current rules on public procurement already allow considerations such as social inclusion, working conditions and the needs of marginalised individuals to be taken into account. however, the practical application of the current rules needs both simplification and clarification. with public procurement accounting for approximately 17 % of the eu’s gdp, if we simplify the current rules we could give smes a genuine opportunity to come forward with innovative ideas which not only promote economic recovery but also sustainable job creation. i welcome this report with its clear recognition of the role of public procurement in providing stable employment in these difficult times.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − madam president, public procurement can be used to drive both innovation and efficiency, but often innovation is not encouraged when contracts are awarded. public procurement is already too complicated and too bureaucratic, and mandatory innovation targets would not help. innovation cannot be made to order. instead, contracting processes should enable providers to develop clever solutions to challenges, rather than try to specify solutions in advance. on energy efficiency, for example, searching for the lowest price is not always the answer; nor is forcing authorities to purchase individual products, which individually appear efficient but collectively may not be. there does need to be a good dialogue and mutual understanding between the public sector and r&d sectors, but i am not convinced that the commission’s rigid partnerships are necessarily a good solution. simplifying processes must be a priority and the eu should avoid over-regulating where this restricts flexibility, innovation or competition.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i warmly welcome mrs rühle’s second report – and i think we should remember that – on public procurement, both on behalf of my group and as chairman of the committee. i think it is quite clear that we are setting the framework within which the commissioner is going to move forward. i am very pleased, commissioner – and i am sure my colleagues agree – to see that you are going to come up with an ambitious series of reforms, because we desperately need that. the problem with public procurement at the moment, as many of you pointed out, is that it is a straitjacket on dynamic markets, sensible solutions, innovation and green growth. i think there is a sense in which public procurers are managing the process and are focused entirely on meeting the rules instead of considering the outcome. that is bad public policy, and now is the time to do something about it: it is one of your twelve levers of growth, commissioner, and that is the context in which we need to put it. my closing point, which i made in the big meeting we had with commissioners last week, is that we cannot actually wait for two years to implement the new rules. there are a lot of things which could be done in clarifying the rules, and i hope that you will remember that, because we actually need that action now to get growth going.
we now move to the catch-the-eye part of the debate. again i am going to tell you now that i have far more requests for the floor than we can possibly take. i will take six in total.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 25 october 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the commission on small business act, crisis and smes by mara bizzotto, niki tzavela, rolandas paksas, on behalf of the efd group (o-000188/2011 – b7-0624/2011),– the oral question to the commission on addressing the shortcomings of sme test implementation by jürgen creutzmann, fiona hall, michael theurer, andrea zanoni, on behalf of the alde group (o-000276/2011 – b7-0638/2011).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome the commission’s proposals and i pay tribute to the work of parliament’s rapporteurs. smes are the bread and butter of our economy. they are the reservoirs of entrepreneurial spirit, the employment generators and the embryos of tomorrow’s big businesses. in the past they have too often been overlooked by the social partners representing big industry and big employers. key to their success is access to finance. the european investment fund has been hugely important for small businesses in my constituency and i welcome the commissioner’s commitment to consider new opportunities for venture capital. mr president, access to finance is important and we need to ensure that our banking system, when recapitalised, is lending again to small businesses. we welcome too the commission’s proposals on late payments. i hope the commission will do something about simplifying vat, particularly in cross- border transactions. i visited a local firm in my constituency, foundrax in somerton, who tell me there are currently some 27 vat thresholds in place; that makes it very difficult for small businesses to trade. i hope, too, the commission will look again at employment law, which requires impact assessments and sometimes sunset clauses to be able to deal with small businesses. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
mr president, i welcome the question. i have actually worked as a financier on the china coast and seen the difficulties that small businesses come up against in china. of course they are less regulated in different ways, but they face many challenges that ours do not. i believe we have, broadly, the framework for legislation for smes right. i hope the commission will help them now by giving serious consideration to investment in things like broadband, cheaper energy – such as from renewable sources – and transport links, which will help these people to trade and to prosper.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i can identify with what the commissioner has said, because in my constituency of northern ireland over 99% of the businesses are smes, and we depend on them for growth. the impact on the regional economy at the moment is very severe because of the economic climate. in the current financial climate, smes across europe are operating in these tough times, so those small businesses face various pressures – not least, difficulty in accessing credit. where i come from, this is a tremendous problem. however, another issue is the red tape and bureaucracy which they have to contend with on a daily basis. i would be interested to hear the answer from the commission regarding the effectiveness of the small business act, and in particular the sme test, in proving to be truly effective in analysing the effects of eu legislation on smes across the different member states. i think we have got to be careful in europe that we do not over-regulate ourselves out of the market and let others take that market while we sit back and let them do it.
mr president, only 10% of smes export to other member states and still fewer to countries outside europe. many smes are micro-businesses with few employees. offices to advise smes in china, help with collecting debts from other member states, and greater access to venture capital all have rather limited appeal to micro-businesses and small businesses with a limited scope of activity. smes, especially the small ones, when asked what they want from the government or from the eu, do not say this advice, that grant or guarantee, or the other training; they simply want freedom from excessive regulation and oppressive taxation. from 1998 to 2010, the cost of eu regulation to the united kingdom alone was 124 000 million. over-regulation has made medium-sized enterprises less able to compete with other, less regulated countries in other continents. the act contains fine phrases and bold ambitions. they have much less to do with business, but a lot more to do with eu dogma.
mr president, welsh smes provide 99 % of my nation’s employment. however they are really struggling right now with the economic downturn, and although i appreciate the small business test and all the efforts under the procurement directive and such initiatives, they actually still do not help directly the micro- and small businesses in this current climate. wales is subject to top-level convergence funding, and given that the primary funding objective is that of raising standards of competitiveness in the poorest-performing regions, i would like to urge the commission to encourage regional governments to use the money directly to support the expansion of smes. micro-businesses employ thousands of people. assisting them to employ a single new employee through a targeted use of convergence funding could have a hugely stimulating effect on the local, national – and eu – economy. smes need less red tape, yes, but they need more assistance through direct action. let us coordinate our policies to re-stimulate growth.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the welsh rugby team on their outstanding performance in the 2011 rugby world cup in new zealand. as a proud nation of three million welsh people, where rugby is the national sport, the welsh team has deserved the world’s recognition for their achievement in reaching the semi-finals. to hear the welsh national anthem being sung in my mother tongue, which is growing in its usage annually, was a huge source of pride. many of the welsh team use welsh as their first language and they all – english or welsh speaking – are an example of how our national sportsmen and women make a huge contribution to national unity and to promoting our culture in a global context. sport is a source of cultural pride to our nation and should be used as a tool to promote regional diversity in the eu and beyond. ‘llongyfarchiadau i’r tîm!’ – our congratulations to the welsh team! (applause)
a uachtaráin, ar an 17 deireadh fómhair tharla comhdháil thábhachtach idirnáisiúnta i dtír na mbascach inar iarr na rannpháirtithe – kofi annan, gerry adams, bertie ahern agus gro harlem bruntland ina measc – ar eta fógairt phoiblí a thabhairt go gcuirfear deireadh deifinídeach le gach gníomh armtha agus cainteanna a iarraidh le rialtais na spáinne agus na fraince le tabhairt faoi iarmhairtí na coimhlinte amháin. ar an 20 deireadh fómhair, ba é sin go díreach an rud a rinne eta. ba chóir do pharlaimint na heorpa fáilte a chur roimh an fhorbairt dhearfach seo agus í a spreagadh. d’iarr an chomhdháil idirnáisiúnta i dtír na mbascach ar rialtas na spáinne agus ar rialtas na fraince chomh maith fáilte a chur roimh a leithéid de ráiteas agus aontú le cainteanna chun déileáil le hiarmhairtí na coimhlinte. tá súil agam go ndéanfaidh siad mar a iarradh orthu. tá súil agam chomh maith go mbeidh an ceart ag muintir thír na mbascach vótáil d’iarrthóirí agus do pháirtithe polaitiúla dá rogha féin. tá an fhreagracht ar gach ceannaire polaitiúil agus ar dhaoine eile chun an deis seo a thapú.
madam president, i rise to ask the president to intervene in relation to a shocking incident last week, when i was personally prevented from giving interviews by being physically ejected from a media area in connection with the forced eviction of roma, or travellers, from a site called dale farm in essex in my constituency. i ask the president to object in the strongest terms to the british authorities that a member of this parliament, who had properly informed the relevant local authority – basildon council – in advance, who had police permission to be present and who intended to speak to uphold the law and to condemn violence, should be prevented from exercising his freedom of expression. in particular i ask the president to investigate whether there has been a breach of article 2 of the statute for members of the european parliament, stating that members shall be free and independent; article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities, protecting members in respect of opinions expressed in the performance of their duties; and rule 6 of parliament’s rules of procedure, which calls on the president of parliament to uphold its integrity and secure the independence of its members. i do not ask the president to intervene in an area of political disagreement. i do ask him to recognise that, for a public authority to use its powers to enable the views of one political party to be heard and to inhibit those of another, is an unfair, unjustifiable and unreasonable interference in my rights, which should be defended by the parliament of which i am proud to be a member.
rapporteur. − madam president, in this instance alternative dispute resolution is said to be about civil and commercial matters, but it concentrates mainly on consumer issues. what we are talking about is delivering access to justice and, by doing so, finding a way of encouraging cross-border transactions, because at the moment – and this has in fact been the case for many years now – there are too many fears about enforcement of rights. traditional justice is complicated, slow and expensive. at a time when we need to encourage cross-border commerce and transactions, we need to find a new culture of civil justice: one that is different, one that is quicker, cheaper and more conciliatory, and one that brings results. for many years now a loose network of adr providers has been in existence, coordinated through the commission: ‘eej-net’ and ‘fin-net’. they have been successful in their way but they are not enough. they do not answer the question that most citizens will have. when they want justice, they know where their local court is. they do not know where their local adr system is. we need to make sure that the systems that exist are given publicity. we need to make sure that there is an overall system to ensure that every consumer can reach an adr system to solve a dispute. we need to ensure that the systems that do exist are of good quality, that training is provided to those providing adr, and that the quality is independently monitored. so, that is the direction we want to go in. however, we do not only want adr: we also want odr, online dispute resolution. people are buying online across borders: they should also be able to settle their disputes online. but this should not be limited to activity in one area of consumer disputes. there should be joined-up thinking with regard to other community instruments such as the proposal for a contract law – now called sales law – and proposals for collective redress. all of these things deserve to have an adr element. alternative dispute resolution should be about a new form of cross-border european justice, a change of culture for the 21st century. it should go across the board, but what would be most important at the moment is to deliver that change in relation to consumer and sme cross-border transactions. we should do that and do it as a priority and i think this parliament looks forward to seeing the commission’s proposal before the end of this year.
author. − madam president, the european semester is an important innovation of economic governance in the eu, synchronising the calendars of multilateral surveillance for the fiscal and the macro dimensions in the stability and growth pact, and also regarding eu 2020 targets in the national reform programmes. the first exercise led to the release of country-specific recommendations adopted by the commission in june, and had the aim of providing ex-ante guidance to member states in both fiscal and structural objectives. these recommendations were endorsed by the council in july following the introduction of changes. as part of parliament’s role of ensuring maximum transparency and accountability at the union level, the european parliament is eager to foster a debate on these recommendations, as well as more generally on the outcome of the first instalment of the european semester. these oral questions to the commission and council seek to review the semester with the aim of improving it. do the council and the commission believe the semester lived up to expectations, and if the exercise was not perfect, how do they think it should be improved next year? does the council consider that the changes it made to the recommendations in june and july of this year were made in a sufficiently transparent manner? it looks a little like the old habit of the council weakening draft recommendations by the commission, about which we are justifiably nervous. of course the council has the right to alter those recommendations, but it is also in line with parliament’s new role as guarantor of eu-level transparency and accountability to seek answers to the questions as to why certain changes were made. the committee is planning to organise a more detailed hearing on exactly that question on 7 november, to which both the commission and the council have been invited. parliament is also asking about the interaction between tools of different legal natures – for example the national reform programmes, which are non-binding, and the stability and convergence programmes, which are binding – and is seeking an assessment of member states’ commitment to and ownership of the european semester. all of this is crucial to implement the significantly enhanced economic governance that europe needs as a result of the ongoing crisis.
madam president, the citizens that i represent are not necessarily concerned about what is happening in some faraway european semester, but they are very concerned about what is happening in europe and in the euro zone. right now they see that greece cannot afford to repay its debt and that the crisis is just getting worse. from a uk perspective, there are many of my citizens who are fed up with bailing out our own banks, but who do think that it is time you restructured the banks across the continent. that is not easy and it is painful, but it does need to be sorted out and it needs to be sorted out now. as for my own contribution on the european semester, i hope that our member states will live up to the expectations of the budgetary framework directive because, fundamentally, our citizens need to know where their money is going, how it is being spent and how forecasts are being put together by our governments. so i hope that one of the first actions of next year’s semester will to ensure that our countries fulfil their obligations.
madam president, crises are calamities to ordinary people but to the eu they are opportunities for extending the power and competence of eu institutions and for encouraging key eu projects, like fiscal and political union. harmonisation for its own sake borders on obsessive behaviour. economic policy should not be about congruence or symmetry: it should be about the particular needs of very different economies. large budget deficits, other things being equal, should be avoided but there are circumstances in which they might be necessary. quantitative easing might be necessary as a reflationary measure – something which, of course, is not possible unilaterally within the euro zone. it might be argued that the mechanisms are simply providing a necessary external discipline, forcing member states into good, rather than bad, economic habits. however, we need to look several steps ahead. how long will it be before the commission decides the budgets of every member state, with the member states themselves having only a consultative role?
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the approval this parliament gives to eu institutions on the management of taxpayers’ money, the so-called ‘discharge procedure’, has become a joke. we were elected to scrutinise and protect our people’s interests, yet year after year the biggest part of the budget – that under the european commission’s responsibility – is riddled with irregularities, and still this parliament is happy to grant discharge to it. members here today are also happy to grant discharge to the european police college’s 2009 accounts even after serious misappropriations of funds surfaced that year. a nod and a wink from the new management that it will put its house in order is all it took, yet then when it comes to the council, parliament refuses discharge even if the auditors make no criticism at all of the institution’s financial management. why such inconsistency? power games. parliament thinks this is a way of flexing its muscles. in reality this is an act of total disrespect to the taxpayers it is supposed to serve. however, even more disrespectfully, this house will not allow any other institution but itself to approve its own financial management. this is a total conflict of interest. the reports by the internal auditor of this parliament for 2007, 2008 and 2009, which came to light last week, show this house is far from meriting a clean bill of health. i voted against discharge for the commission. i voted against discharge for parliament and i will vote against discharge for the council, as i cannot be certain that the money has been properly spent.
madam president, i rise to make two points. under the interinstitutional agreement of 2005 the council entered into an agreement with this parliament and it is not acceptable that too many of the member states continue to ignore those commitments. in particular, in light of the lisbon treaty, it is high time they realised the obligation to find better cooperation with this house. the council must meet its obligations. secondly, would the council and commission both please understand that the continuing adverse commentary from the court of auditors is extremely damaging to the standing and the integrity of the european union amongst the general population. it is not good enough to give technical explanations. what we need is clear action, because the council and the commission must give greater urgency to the achievement of an unqualified statement of assurance.
the next item is question time to the commission.
one of the 12 priorities is the issue of intellectual property rights, including patents, and emphasis has been placed on how essential patents are for innovation, jobs and of course research. what is the commission’s reaction to the recent ruling of the european court of justice that patents for the use of stem cells are not possible? i have to say that as a layman i have struggled to understand the ruling, but what does the commission make of this? what is its reaction, and what is it going to do to stop medicinal research in europe being blocked with the result that it all goes to asia and the united states, where you can patent such therapeutic inventions – which are of course essential not only for research and innovation and jobs but also for medicinal treatments?
i agree with that up to a point. it has only been a week or so since the judgment, but i think that some reaction from the commission would be better sooner rather than later. i think the research community is quite dismayed and disorientated. after all, stem cell research – which we were supposed to be leaders in – is not banned, but it appears that you cannot do anything with the results of that research. so of course the investment is not going to come and we will lose our leadership. i do not think we can afford to wait long before we hear a very positive message from the commission about how we are going to go forward on this question.
i think it is very important that we have three commissioners here on this all-embracing proposal of a single market act. as commissioner barnier pointed out, it has been something that this parliament has been closely associated with, but it is absolutely a collective enterprise. the question i would like to pose to our distinguished panel of commissioners is: how are we going to get the member states to engage with us and understand the importance of driving growth for implementing single market measures? i was very pleased that the council conclusions over the weekend put the single market act at the top of the list receiving support from member states, and they are talking about informing ‘economic operators’ about new opportunities. what are our commission team going to do with member states? how are they going to engage with member states and what advice would they give to us about how to get these growth-deploying measures out there and really working over the next 12 months?
with due respect to my three friends, i think you rather missed the point. we are well aware of what you are doing, but how many citizens in europe are connecting the single market with growth? the first thing i would expect you to say to governments when you go out on your missions (michel barnier has certainly been most energetic in this respect) is: where is your growth agenda? how are you using the single market? how are you promoting the points of single contact as they pledge to do here? the problem, madam president, as you and i know, is that what is agreed at prime ministerial level is often not carried out by ministers or local authorities to get that message across. how are we going to achieve this between us?
i am just going to say at this stage that our three commissioners are such a popular trio that i have a very long list of speakers here. so i would ask our very popular trio if they could try to limit the length of their answers.
i would like to thank our commissioners. that concludes question time.
mr president, i am happy to have voted for this report, as it gives us the opportunity to make sure that greater emphasis is put on social and environmental standards when member states award contracts under public procurement rules. in my constituency of the east midlands, the uk government has recently chosen to award a major train-building contract to the lowest cost supplier, using the procurement rules to justify this. the decision means that 1 400 people at the bombardier site in my constituency will become redundant. indirectly many thousands more will lose their jobs. this is a clear illustration of why the directive needs reform. we want all procurement rules to drive up standards and encourage sustainable, inclusive growth. to achieve that, the lowest-cost-only option needs to be the exception to the rule and social, economic and environmental criteria must become the norm. new legislation alone is not enough. the commission is failing to make sure that public authorities make full use of this legislation. i have asked the commission to confirm that eu rules did not oblige the uk government to make the choice that it did and they have failed to reply to me, although the deadline for response was over two weeks ago. the commission must do more to make public authorities aware of the full extent of what they can do under eu legislation.
in writing. − parliament has consistently supported adequate financing of the european external action service (eeas). the personnel policy of the eeas, however, raises a series of questions, notably that of the significant creation of high-ranking posts. the main concern – that this approach was a result of member states’ pressure on the eeas to create sufficiently high-ranking posts for national civil servants within it – proved, following reception of detailed information from the eeas on its personnel policy, to be unfounded. i therefore followed the rapporteur’s recommendation of approving the council’s position with regard to the eeas establishment plan but calling, at the same time, on the eeas to show restraint in relation to possible future plans for creating additional high-ranking posts.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the european police college, which acknowledges the measures taken by the new management and governance of the college to tackle its deficiencies.
in writing. − i voted for this report which insists, but also warns the european medicines agency, that all the actions mentioned in the respective audit reports, including the one for the year 2010, should be fully implemented before the start of the next discharge procedure.
in writing. − the european medicines agency, which is based in my home constituency of london, does valuable work in helping to protect public health across the european union. however, there are concerns about a lack of transparency in the agency, which sometimes keeps doctors and patients in the dark. on the issue of the budget, regretfully i had to vote against the discharge today. my constituents are feeling the pinch of the economic crisis and i therefore cannot countenance suspect procurement procedures which may have cost the taxpayer eur 30 million. conflicts of interest also need to be eliminated. it is wholly unacceptable that the agency’s former director took up well-paid consultancy jobs advising pharmaceutical companies within weeks of leaving his post.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution codifying the legislation on tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers.
in writing. − i welcome the recent commission consultation on adr which, despite its wide-ranging title, is exclusively targeted at consumer transactions. however, i believe that adr forms part of a general ‘justice-for-growth’ agenda across sectors and take the view that any approach to adr should go beyond consumer disputes so as to include business-to-business civil and commercial transactions, irrespective of whether they are carried out between private or public undertakings, family disputes, defamation cases and other general interest disputes or ones involving parties with different legal statuses.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which reminds the court of auditors of parliament’s suggestion to perform an in-depth assessment of supervisory and control systems in the council, similar to the assessments it performed on the court of justice, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, in the course of preparing the court of auditors’ annual report concerning the financial year 2010.
in writing. − by voting in favour of the rivellini report, i voted against granting discharge to the council's 2009 budget. i felt this should not be signed off until parliament received all the budgetary information it had requested. only in this way can meps properly scrutinise the expenditure. i believe that the overall eu budget should be reduced and therefore the budgets of all the eu institutions need to be cut. our think-tank, new direction, has for example just published a report on cutting the costs of parliament. similar strictures need to be imposed on the council secretariat.
in writing. − i fully endorse the eu’s policy of reducing emissions and support directive 2000/25/ec. however, independent studies and the data compiled by the commission show that more time is required to enable manufacturers to develop stage iiib-compliant systems. i therefore support the commission’s proposal to postpone by three years the date of the introduction of stage iiib and stage iv for tractors in categories t2, t4.1, c2.
in writing. − the justification given by the commission for the proposal is largely based on the economic crisis. from autumn 2008 onwards most of the eu-based industry producing non-road mobile machinery has been affected by the crisis, and especially the construction and agricultural sectors have suffered from steep decreases in sales. the commission argues that the compliance costs required to reach the new stage iiib are too high to bear for an industry severely hit by the crisis. the economic crisis is a reality, but there are already signs of recovery. as the sales are picking up, the rationale for the commission proposal is diminishing. as for some of the bigger producers, for whom the data is more readily available, the sales seem to be smaller when compared to the years which could be called a sort-of a boom for the industry – the current sales numbers are however not much smaller when compared to years preceding the boom. all in all, as the legislation and the limit values for new stage iiib has been in place since 2004, followed by some considerably strong years for the industry, the claim of lacking resources for development looses ground.
in writing. − this report contains a great number of important points. with the europe 2020 strategy targeting a 75% employment rate amongst europe’s citizens aged 20-64, it is clear that increased employment amongst those with disabilities is essential. increasing mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities involves fundamental human rights issues – and is a requirement for invigorating europe’s economic well-being.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which points out that ‘the 80 million people with disabilities have a greater chance of falling into poverty (according to the oecd, roughly every fourth person with disabilities lives in poverty)’, and adds that: ‘the threat of poverty is at the same time a stigma, and disability benefits and entitlements must be guaranteed to those in need.’
in writing. − i welcome this important report, which is parliament's response to the european disability strategy 2010-2020 and is a positive step towards a more inclusive society. i also support parliament's call for the council to adopt the directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment for citizens irrespective of religion, disability, age or sexual orientation. providing social protection, health care and education to persons with disabilities is vital in order to boost the social integration of 80 million people living with a disability in the eu. in addition to this, there is no doubt that access to the labour market for persons with disabilities is limited; only 30 to 40% are in employment. the integration into working life, and the economic independence, of persons with disabilities is extremely important for their general social integration, and is becoming even more important in this time of financial austerity.
in writing. − i wish to congratulate my colleague ms rühle for her excellent work on this report. i welcome her calls to make public procurement procedures simpler and more flexible as well as calls for better access to the process for smes. i also support replacing the ‘lowest price’ with the ‘most economically advantageous tender’.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which in the field of public procurement calls on the commission to assess the problems associated with exceptionally low bids and to propose appropriate solutions; recommends that contracting authorities provide, in the event of abnormally low bids being received, for early and sufficient information to other bidders, in order to allow them to assess whether there are grounds for initiating a review procedure; and asks for greater consistency between the eu’s common external trade policy and the practices in member states where exceptionally low bids are accepted.
in writing. − the report, which i fully support, states the importance of ensuring that taxpayers’ money is used effectively to boost the economy and enhance job creation. this must be done by creating clear, simple rules to encourage public authorities as they look to boost innovation and growth. the proposals outlined in the report highlight the need to establish an eu-wide electronic procurement passport to give evidence that eu public procurement rules are complied with. this would be effective in reducing the currently costly and inefficient administrative burden linked to tendering for contracts. i also fully support the proposed changes to the criteria for tenders, which will benefit smes. compared to their share in the economy, smes are struggling to secure public procurement contracts. a contract should be awarded to the proposal offering the most advantageous economic, social and environmental terms rather than being based solely on the ‘lowest price’ criterion. i support this because it will undoubtedly be beneficial in terms of generating more innovative bids in line with eu2020 strategy goals.
in writing. − the right to workers’ mobility is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu. the economic, social and cultural benefits of this freedom are felt across the eu and this report rightly calls for the ending of various restrictions to this right.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the issue of labour migration within the eu has long been perceived as a potential problem for disbalances at national level in terms of shortages of labour supply, as well as affecting collective bargaining and wages within host countries. although the notion of ‘free movement of workers’ has been present in the treaties as a guarantee for the completion of the single market, and for the strengthening of a true european identity, member states have been granted the right to maintain provisional barriers for transitional periods in terms of opening the labour market for new member states. historically, fears have always been focused on two main aspects: numerous inflows of immigrants from poorer countries coming into the more prosperous ones and losses of jobs for the nationals of the host countries or, in a better scenario, a drop in the level of salaries. however, recent studies have shown that these fears have never been justified and that, on the contrary, labour migration has had a beneficial effect for the eu as a whole
in writing. − i supported this report as it includes many important steps to promote labour mobility across the eu. meps have today called on the commission to implement a long-term, comprehensive strategy which will remove all legal, administrative and practical barriers to the free movement of workers. however, i remain concerned that this report removes a member state’s ability to put in place transitional measures that overcome potential distortions in their domestic labour market. we need to look at solutions to deal with this problem and we need further research into the effects on labour markets across the eu before we make a decision on this.
in writing. − i voted against the services directive when it first went through this parliament and i voted against this report too. public authorities across europe have faced major problems in the implementation of this directive and some member states have experienced difficulties in efficient services provision. this legislation requires a major impact evaluation and this report did not offer that.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution as, although i have a number of reservations, my overall assessment of the mutual evaluation as a policy tool is positive.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on global economic governance and particularly welcome the following paragraph: ‘stresses the need to ensure that multilateral tax information exchange agreements incorporate automatic information exchange provisions and calls for action to strengthen the legal basis for oecd blacklisting of non-cooperative jurisdictions, with a view to improving fiscal transparency and combating fraud and tax evasion; urges the commission to propose by the end of 2011 a robust country-by-country reporting standard for cross-border companies, with the aim of enhancing transparency and access to relevant data by tax administrations’.
in writing. − this resolution calls for an overhaul of the current global economic system and signals parliament’s position ahead of the g20 summit to be held in cannes in november. meps were clear that they wanted stronger global financial regulation and supervision to close loopholes and are calling for measures to be put in place to overcome imbalances between global economies. key to this overhaul would be a new direction for the imf which would allow it to bridge the global leadership gap on these issues and become a more legitimate, accountable and transparent body at this time of uncertainty.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the situation of single mothers. single motherhood is an often overlooked demographic category since it is very difficult to place a face to the issue. encompassing ages spanning over forty years and including all socioeconomic backgrounds, single motherhood lacks an identifiable, visible lobby that can advocate for all single mothers, since policies affect each mother differently. geographically across europe one can see a difference in the perceptions and policies towards single mothers. in the southern mediterranean states (italy, portugal, spain, greece) it is generally accepted that extended family will assist in the raising of single parent children on a voluntary basis without reimbursement. in the northern and nordic states (france, sweden, germany, denmark) government welfare systems are in place to offer single mothers benefits and social assistance policies. in the eastern european member states there is a general mix of policies, some holding on to strong familial values from the communist regimes and others having a mix of the northern and southern european policies. while the geographic distributions, along with the age and socioeconomic divisions ,already make it difficult for single mothers to organise and lobby.
in writing. − i fully support the measures outlined in this report to provide more direct support to single mothers. with the growing number of single mothers in the eu, i believe that this report is an important step in outlining objectives for the future. tax breaks, educational assistance and housing support for single-parent households are called for by the resolution. single mothers in the eu are, on the whole, less educated than married mothers and developing initiatives to help young pregnant women as they aim to continue their education during pregnancy and after giving birth is an important support mechanism and will provide much-needed assistance, especially to those in deprived areas. these initiatives should also benefit single fathers. unmarried, widowed or separated women should also be provided with access to training and scholarship opportunities through the european social fund, which provides essential financial support to european regions.
in writing. − serious organised crime has an increasingly international dimension and criminals involved in such activities as human trafficking and the drugs trade are able to operate across borders. the eu has an important role to play in combating organised crime and the scottish government is actively involved in the uk’s opting in to certain initiatives. the battle against crime must, however, be proportionate and i believe this report finds a correct balance.
in writing. − the ecr group abstained on the alfano report on organized crime in the european union for the following reasons: - on the one hand we are in favour of fighting organized crime at eu level. therefore it is necessary to make sure that member states, their crime-fighting agencies and eu institutions and agencies involved in fighting organized crime, such as europol, eurojust, the european anti-trafficking coordinator, olaf and frontex, cooperate and coordinate their actions. - on the other hand this report contains too many requests for further judicial integration and ‘europeanization’ of criminal law. we do not believe this is necessary or effective. for example, we do not believe there is a need for a european public prosecutor. we need to reinforce existing structures rather than propose new directives and other eu legislative instruments.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls on the european institutions to send out a clear message at eu and international level with a view to curbing all forms of money laundering through the use of the financial markets, in particular by: envisaging possible capital control measures, as recently suggested by the international monetary fund itself; encouraging a reduction of the pervasiveness of the financial markets in the context of short-term operations; imposing increased transparency on the use of public funds, first and foremost on those to support private-sector development, and carrying out an effective offensive against tax havens by imposing country-by-country financial reporting on all multinational economic operators; promoting a multilateral agreement on the exchange of tax-related information whilst revising the definition of ‘tax haven’ and the list of these secret jurisdictions. parliament calls on the commission to draw up clear guidelines on the traceability of money so as to make it easier to identify cases involving the laundering of money deriving from illegal activities; calls on the commission, with a view to its legislative proposal to update the money laundering directive.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which points out that aid effectiveness requires poor countries to be able to mobilise domestic revenues. parliament urges the eu once again, therefore, to make the fight against tax havens and tax evasion its utmost priority, while also promoting alternative sources of development finance, for example through the introduction of a financial transaction tax; likewise, urges the eu to give developing countries more help with tax reforms, thereby supporting the establishment of effective, efficient, fair and sustainable tax systems, which should have the effect of reducing poverty and aid dependency.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the ongoing euro zone crisis is seeing companies quit the european market. european legislation has placed unforetold pressures on businesses and industries and makes it more viable for multinationals to shed european jobs or relocate to asia. meanwhile, with the help of eu funding, a number of large companies have relocated from western europe to eastern europe, in the opposite direction to labour migration flows. the free movement of people was designed to alleviate labour shortages, not create overcrowding in the job market. yet due to legislation coming with freedom of choice, migrants flock to certain countries to find there are not the employment opportunities they envisaged. because they are entitled to welfare support, they stay, increasing unemployment and competing with domestic applicants for posts. perhaps the commission should instruct companies to open up opportunities to other eu applicants only when there is not enough domestic competence to meet an industry’s needs. twinned with reducing the burden of legislation, allowing member states to compete in the employment market, labour could be targeted where needed, easing the congestion of unemployment in the worst-affected areas.
madam president, the global recession and the faltering economy hampered by the continuing problems of the euro zone are undoubtedly having a negative effect on european businesses and therefore on european jobs. however, it is not just economic troubles that are causing this painful rise in unemployment in all regions of europe. before we become too self-congratulatory we should look at the policies of our own eu institutions, which are shouldering a large part of the blame. now i realise that this debate is primarily focused on arcelor and on nokia but i also want to mention my very serious concerns about a large and important employer in my region of northumberland. i am talking about alcan, the aluminium smelter. alcan is a smelter which earlier this month announced that it may have to close and it may have to close partly because it has effectively been strangled by eu legislation. the emissions trading scheme and the large combustion plants directive have caused alcan to face serious competitivity problems. closure of the plant will mean the direct loss of around 750 jobs and many more indirectly in a part of northumberland which is already afflicted by very high levels of unemployment. i and many others warned about the knock-on effects of ill-thought-out legislation such as this, but our concerns were brushed aside by the greens and over-zealous environmentalists whose fixation on reducing carbon emissions made them deaf to all of the arguments about economic and environmental damage. we warned of the risks to businesses, we warned of the risks to jobs and we warned about the serious effect that it would have on the environment caused by carbon leakage. employers like alcan and arcelormittal are at breaking point, and one by one they are going to relocate to other parts of the world where they are not choked by the same cumbersome environmental legislation that we have here in europe. of course we want to reduce carbon emissions, of course we want to avoid carbon leakage but we do not do that by exporting jobs and by exporting companies to other parts of the world. we do nothing but export jobs and we export the emissions along with them.
madam president, i wanted to bring to the commissioner’s attention another example of job dismissals which might help this debate – perhaps a case that might be suitable for the global adjustment fund. there is a small town where i live, and within the region i represent, called brough. it contains a large airfield where pilots trained in spitfires for the battle of britain. people have now started to talk of the ‘battle for brough’, as bae systems threatens to shed 900 jobs, leaving a workforce of only 400. it will have a huge impact on a community of 7 000 inhabitants. what can we do? of course we can check that all the rules the commissioner referred to are being adhered to, but we also know that in this same locality we have the huge development of offshore wind and carbon capture and storage, and i was much impressed by what isabelle durant said. how can we use restructuring and the funds that might be available to move into new technologies where we have an amazingly highly-skilled technical workforce that is otherwise going to be at a loss, greatly to the detriment of that local community? i know that my national government is not a huge fan of the fund, but if it can be used in an appropriate and progressive manner, it should be considered.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i too welcome ms bastos’s report, which addresses some key issues in the european labour market, such as the difficulty recent graduates face in finding employment, the need to reduce red tape for smes and the need to encourage digital literacy amongst all age brackets. we need to encourage reform in europe’s labour markets, but the best way to achieve this is through encouraging flexibility and creating the right conditions for businesses to grow. in terms of education, we need to ensure that alternatives to traditional teaching are available, such as apprenticeships and vocational training. most importantly, education needs to be tailored to the needs of the labour market and this can only be achieved at a national level. this is why i especially welcome the mention of the university-business dialogue, which has the potential to be a very useful tool in harnessing the particular needs of business with the teaching of higher education and making sure that we plug the skills gap and deliver prospects of employment and real jobs for graduates. in order to encourage these reforms, we need to ensure that there are provisions in place to allow simple, effective mobility for professionals and graduates. in doing so we will be providing opportunities for engineers, teachers, doctors and others to move to another country and practise their profession and encourage cross-border trade. nonetheless, i do find some aspects of this report particularly concerning and, whilst the goal of the supplying every eu citizen with employment is very noble, it is simply unrealistic to ask member states to meet arbitrary employment targets. moreover, asking member states to review the critical austerity measures they have been forced to take as part of their financial crisis could be seen as hypocritical given the fact that the eu itself consistently asks for increased budgets year on year. the report talks about better working conditions for employees and touches on the social security systems in member states. i do not believe that this will do anything to increase job creation; it would do quite the opposite. more rights for workers, especially in a society which already has the best workers’ rights in the world, will mean jobs are lost, as employers will find recruitment more and more expensive and burdensome. to summarise, the focus on job creation, the promotion of inclusive labour markets, the need for more mobility, innovation and research, are all necessary proposals, but let us not eliminate the real possibility of job creation by adding excessive burdens.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we have been here before. remember the lisbon agenda – the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world leading to more and better jobs, a 10-year programme which started in 2000? where is it? it failed, of course: simply because you keep on thinking you can solve a problem by central decree. sorry, it does not work that way. such programmes need a written plan, and then rules and regulations, and there we go: straight into the red tape jungle. if you could only understand that: cut the red tape and all the restrictive regulations, and let people get on with what they do best – making things and selling them. once again i must remind you that big business can cope with red tape and can afford compliance officers and well-paid lawyers to bail them out if they make a mistake. smes, which employ half the workforce, do not have those resources, so when they get into trouble, they fold. another one or two jobs go, and fewer youngsters are taken on to learn a trade. take this morning’s farce in the vote on tyres for motor vehicles and trailers – not really a farce: it is another headache for the motor trade. for how many small garages will this be the last straw before they go under? this whole agenda is another one-size-fits-all idea, or rather, one-size-that-fits-no one. the euro is one of those: now falling apart before your eyes, and all you can think of is to try more of the same. the first casualties of that disaster are, of course, the smes – and more jobs are lost.
madam president, i welcome the debate on the agenda for new skills and jobs across the european union. if the eu is to get out of its current economic difficulties, this agenda will be a defining part of that. the member states have set the ambitious objective of a 75% employment rate for the 20 to 64 age group by 2020. in my own constituency of northern ireland, the september figures show an employment rate estimated at 67.3% for 16 to 64 year olds, which is an increase of 1% during the course of the year. however, northern ireland still has the second highest unemployment rate among the twelve regions of the united kingdom, with the figure currently 7.3% – still significantly lower than the eu average of 9.5%. some of that rise in unemployment in northern ireland can be attributed to the collapse of the construction sector, which was seriously affected by the collapse of that industry in the republic of ireland. trade in both goods and services between the two economies, as well as the job market, have all been detrimentally affected by the economic difficulties of our neighbours in the irish republic. these are difficult and trying times for all of us throughout the united kingdom and the european union as a whole. much has been said by prime minister cameron about the chilling effect the euro crisis is having on uk recovery and growth. it is essential that we also recognise the chilling effect of the eu on business as a result of the restrictive, costly and time-consuming red tape and directives handed down by europe. the uk parliament last night debated, in the house of commons, a motion for a referendum on relations with europe. while i believe in the sovereignty of the nation state, it is interference from europe that will drive the agenda in a referendum campaign.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 26 october 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on state of play regarding the maternity leave directive by edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (o-000184/2011 –b7-0623/2011).
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we all know the word parliament derives from the french word meaning ‘to talk’. sometimes i think this parliament talks too much and is not willing to listen to member states’ concerns. the ecr group opposed tabling this question, as we saw little value added. perhaps we are the only group which puts faith in its member states. we certainly believe it is not the duty of parliament’s committee on women’s rights and gender equality to hassle the member states. the normal sequence of events of any directive is that once it is passed by parliament it goes to the council, which may then deal with it as and when it sees fit. the women’s rights committee is now trying to push its overreaching, expensive and unnecessary proposal onto the council. early this year i was practically a lone voice in the committee calling for a reassessment of the directive, and i wish to state again what i said in the past. the maternity leave directive is not right for women; it is not right for businesses, and it is not right for member states’ governments in a time of economic recession. twenty weeks of fully-paid compulsory maternity leave, two weeks’ fully paid paternity leave and breast-feeding breaks of three hours a day are totally unrealistic. there is a reason why the council is blocking these proposals. the council is the last line of defence a member state has; national governments are sending us a powerful message, and it is time we listened. we should have listened months ago and amended this directive to make it workable for all the stakeholders. time and again, rigid rules supported by so-called social dimensions triumph over common sense. we need to be more flexible. we did not listen, so now we are paying the price. by refusing to make compromises and concessions, we have managed to let down the very women we are here to support.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i would like to ask the minister how he can justify this proposal to treble maternity pay by requiring firms to pay new mothers their full salary for 20 weeks. does he not know we are in the middle of one of the worst recessions of modern times? this will present businesses with the prospect of a 2 billion burden. even my government opposes this move. in addition, minister, you plan to extend minimum parental leave from three months to four months for each parent. that is separate from the maternity leave, with one month of the four not transferable to the other parent. is the council prepared to compromise on main issues like the duration of maternity leave and the level of payment? otherwise you intend to give member states two years to amend their laws – though how you can say ‘their’ laws, i do not know. this comes straight from the commission factory, and we shall oppose this job-destroying proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, the honourable member has pointed out an anomaly in the laws. she is right: it is wrong, it should not happen.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the problem being expressed is faced by the eu as a whole but should be regarded and tackled domestically. in the uk, for example, management of offshore banking in british crown dependencies is intrinsically tied with reciprocal contributions to the liquidity of the domestic market. i demand that the commission heed caution when seeking to harmonise corporate taxation and when taking such bold legislative leaps as to criminalise tax avoidance by enshrining it as tax evasion within eu law. in a global marketplace there will always be tax havens, offshore banking and questionable yet astute financial handling by the most profitable multilaterals. it is estimated that some 15% of countries in the world are tax havens. these countries tend to be small and affluent, with the most successful well-governed and regulated. it is fair to suggest that over-regulation drives away commerce and investment. however, both over-regulated and mismanaged tax systems are often the product of sprawling tax bases too large to effectively manage or allow necessary economic elasticity. many multilateral conglomerates are turning their backs on the european market due to the euro zone crisis and the burden of eu law. raising this issue now will only deter corporations from establishing headquarters in the eu, and they will instead look to asia or south america. taxation must remain the prerogative of member states better placed to manage and enforce their own systems, allowing for increased flexibility while also promoting the sort of competition that helps catalyse recovery. it would be foolhardy for any member state outside the common currency to sign up to such corporate fiscal union.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in an act of contempt towards many member states that are having to implement tough austerity measures, the european commission came up with a 4.9% increase for the 2012 budget. this increase, given the countries’ shared predicament, naturally could not be accepted by the council, but they still allowed for a 2% increase, which i find unacceptable. this house has turned a deaf ear to the council’s proposal, as it is now asking for a 5.2% increase. the justification for the increase is the need for investments to take the eu out of the crisis. stop! think! ask yourselves what happened with all the taxpayers’ money we have already invested to achieve the long-promised objectives of the lisbon agenda. why do we need to put more money into failed projects like galileo, which is costing the taxpayer eur 22 million? why do we need to put more money into vanity projects like the house of european history? why can we not reduce meps’ allowances? but above all, when will this parliament stop saying: let them eat cake?
mr president, can i also thank the rapporteur and in particular welcome the approach which has led to lowering the increase to an actual figure of 0.8%? i particularly welcome the freeze on the general expenditure allowance for 2012: a cut of 5% in the travel budget, savings in translation and interpretation costs, plus all the other savings we identified in our negotiations. the s&d group would perhaps have liked to have gone a little further, and that is why we have tabled amendments calling for a freeze in all allowances, including the daily allowance, for 2012. we have also asked the bureau to have a proper review of travel costs, including finding ways of reducing the number of business flights. we have also called for a comparative study of the european parliament’s budget, comparing our budget with, perhaps, member states’ parliaments and the congress in the us. we have also called for a more transparent and open buildings policy and we would like to ensure that this parliament is fully informed in the future about proposals on new building developments. i would have liked to have gone even further than that and called for a freeze in all allowances for the rest of this particular mandate. i have no doubt that with more work, with further analysis of our spending in this parliament, we can go further and make even more savings. we have made a good start his year. we have shown that we can make savings and, at the same time, we can protect the proper functioning of this parliament.
mr president, i would like to rise to support the line taken this morning by my group, which is looking for savings as well as spending funds in the budget of 2012. in the discussions so far i think we have been right to be able to focus on priorities for the european union but, in the context of the big discussions today and tomorrow elsewhere on the continent about how we are going to be dealing with our debt problems, i think that in this 2012 procedure we have not yet focused sufficiently on where savings could be generated in the budget so that we can then find the monies for future programmes on competitive innovation and other things where we have a large consensus in the house. we have presented information for the budget procedure on where we can get funding of up to eur 2 billion, savings where lines have been insufficiently implemented. when we move into conciliation with the council, we are going to have to focus very clearly on those lines where we can identify that we are spending money inefficiently and unwisely.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, for the last few years the eu auditors have been saying that a large proportion of the irregularities are due to complex rules. this recast of the financial regulation was meant primarily to solve that problem. while this proposal is a long way from achieving that goal, what worries me most is that it fails to include fundamental aspects of control. why does it exclude the demand for an annual treasury audit when this function is at the core of the management of taxpayers’ money? such an audit would reveal the failures of the system to prevent, detect and control any misappropriation of eu funding. however, since my time as chief accounting officer of the european commission, i have seen such important and basic procedures dismissed. i will not vote in favour of any regulation that does not include fundamental control procedures that strengthen the commission’s responsibility regarding taxpayers’ funds.
in writing. – i welcome the report tabled on the financial regulation today, which should be strongly supported for the following three reasons. first, the essential need to simplify rules for the end user – particularly smes. rule simplification should also apply to researchers where time sheets for their work should not be required. second, encouraging steps towards national accountability for the eu funds put at their disposal in order to finally achieve a european statement of assurance, sadly lacking today. last, but not least, ensuring that the european commission is set clear and fair rules which ensure transparency and uphold the rights of the parliament.
mr president, today’s vote on the budget represents another lost opportunity for this parliament to show it is in tune with the electorate. all over europe member states are making painful but necessary cuts to their budgets; they are aiming to end waste and make their finances sustainable. the council position went some way to reflect this reality but as usual this parliament disregarded our taxpayers. i fear that members in this chamber are not yet fully aware of the serious and precarious position that europe finds itself in. more europe is not the cure. we should lower the burden on taxations and, where europe does spend money, it should do so to increase competitiveness. i fear that we have failed our citizens again.
mr president, today i voted against the budget for 2012. member states around europe are having to cut their budgets and reduce their deficit. our voters are having to accept real austerity measures, as my colleague ashley fox pointed out. today parliament could have shown more willingness to share the burden with our citizens by cutting further. we could have first looked at our own budget and administration, and we should have considered supporting a freeze on meps’ allowances, including our daily allowance. i am pleased that parliament voted to look at travel costs and cuts and reductions in business flights. these are examples of things that do not impact on the quality of meps’ work. we could have shown some leadership and solidarity with our citizens. parliament should have supported the council cuts as well those proposed under certain areas of the cohesion policy, given that there are major underspends in these budget headings. i had hoped that my colleagues could today have sent a clearer and stronger signal to eu citizens telling them that we are in the same boat and committed to shouldering the burden of the crisis with them. it was a missed opportunity.
mr president, whilst i can agree with our rapporteur and those parts of his report that say we should fight tax evasion, i must fundamentally disagree with his whole approach to the common system of taxation. this report was meant to be a simple recast of the original directive but, as ever, in the spirit of ever-closer political union that so many in this chamber seem to want, the left of this parliament have seen fit to add all sorts of substantive amendments which actually mean that this legislation goes much further than originally intended. these amendments pave the way for a common consolidated corporate tax rate in the european union, and in my view this is completely unacceptable. member states must retain tax sovereignty when defining their corporate tax rate, because tax competitiveness is vital for the growth of our single market. that is why i voted against this report and why i will continue to vote against any report that puts tax sovereignty at risk.
in writing. − i voted for a budget that delivers jobs and growth, and against wasteful and excessive expenditure.
in writing. − i did not support the vote to approve the eu budget 2012 resolution in the ep this week. within the budget there were measures i supported, such as increased funding for the eu 2020 work, the greening of the cap, and for palestine, as well as reducing business flights and freezing meps’ daily allowances. however, the overall budget net increase of 5.3% over 2011 levels, at a time when states all over the eu are imposing austerity measures, is something i cannot condone. i voted in june 2011 to limit increases in member state contributions in line with inflation, and suggested specific budget lines should be revised, and unspent money reallocated. i remain of this view.
in writing. − i voted against the budget resolution because in the present climate i could not vote for a 5.2% increase.
in writing. − i voted to give my consent to the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. − i voted to give my consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite-based navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution as i believe a thorough revision of the council directive on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states is needed.
in writing. − i welcome the objectives of this report: to bring greater simplification, transparency and accountability in the use of eu funds as well as ensuring that these funds are used more effectively in the future. however, i am not convinced that we have yet been successful in the goal of simplification.
in writing. − i supported many of the measures contained in this report as they are key to cutting down on bureaucracy and simplifying the rules laid out for all financial transactions taken by the european institutions. i believe that an overly prescriptive approach would not work and, as such, supported the position of my group that would allow for vital flexibility within the parameters set out in the regulation. i think that the parliament now has a strong position to take forward into negotiations to reach a sustainable and satisfactory conclusion to this report, which will allow for greater transparency, accountability and sound management of funds.
in writing. − i welcome the call in this report for measures targeted at young people with a view to their integration on the labour market even before they have finished formal education, in particular by means of traineeships leading to new job opportunities.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which calls for a focus on matching skills to labour market needs. this is a main objective of the eu2020 strategy and will help to bridge the gap between education and employment. i believe that the focus on increasing participation in lifelong learning is becoming increasingly important; ensuring that people of all ages and at all stages of their careers have the opportunity to develop their skills is essential to an inclusive working society. encouragement should be given to promote workplace-based training to introduce young people to the labour market from an early stage. there should also be minimum standards in terms of pay and social rights to set decent working conditions and protect trainees in all member states. with an ambitious goal of reaching a 75% employment rate for 20-64 year olds in the eu by 2020, this initiative places emphasis on human capital and employability through an updating of skills. in voting for the resolution, the european parliament demonstrates its commitment to the important issue of tackling unemployment in today’s society.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the commissioner said two things which i think are very important. one is that we should analyse properly the counter-proposal by the rapporteur, because i think what mr tavares is trying to do is get some movement here on something which is frustrating colleagues right across the political spectrum, as we heard in the speeches by the authors of the oral question. secondly, you said that we need to have future financing and a stable position for future resettlement so that we do not keep coming back with oral questions in this frustrating way. for our group it is very simple: if we do not find a solution before the end of 2011, we jeopardise the planned use of the european refugee fund, which lapses in 2013. secondly, member states will not receive the extra funds allocated by the european refugee fund; and thirdly, of course, the emergency mechanism provided for in this codecision, which we could have used in the context of the arab spring, will continue to remain inoperative. it is very clear that there is agreement that, while we spend many hours in this parliament and in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs talking about common asylum policies, resettlement is a way of managing, in a very coordinated and sometimes symbolic way, the pressures that we now see in the mediterranean. for this reason, we can contrast – as other speakers have said – the way that we operate our resettlement programme (with fairly small numbers and some inaction from the council) with what has happened with the us and canada, for example, where so many more thousands of refugees have been resettled in a coordinated way. in order for the eu better to respond to such situations, the european parliament adopted this codecision report on the european refugee fund as far back as may 2010. as the commissioner has just said, it is deeply frustrating that we are constantly coming back to this parliament to find a solution. we therefore wanted this debate today because we need answers. parliament has put proposals on the table aimed at finding a solution to the delegated acts issue, but this has met with silence from the council. this is obviously unacceptable, and we fully expect the council to inform us of its position on delegated acts in a way that is credible, and on all the positive aspects of this report. the pressure on the council must be maintained. we are frustrated in parliament across the parties, and i think we will continue to push this issue, because it is a managed and humane way of dealing with some of the consequences of the arab spring. in future we will have crises on which we want a stable policy, and that is what our group wants, in common with the other groups in this house.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i firmly believe that resettlement is a good thing and it is also a positive sign from civilised society to take on those responsibilities. it is a sad reality that, because of conflict or repression and other factors, some people simply cannot go back to their countries of origin. my country, the uk, is one of the eu member states that already engages in resettlement. it does this in cooperation with the unhcr and with ngos. we are very proud of the contribution that we can and do make. however, i question whether it is really necessary for the eu to produce these new plans. surely asylum and immigration issues should remain primarily member states’ responsibility. flows of immigrants and asylum seekers vary enormously from one member state to the other, and this leads to different pressures on those states’ institutions that deal with these issues. furthermore, it is as yet unclear to what extent these proposals will be based on political priorities. also, historically, eu member states have ties to different parts of the world. participation in united nations programmes, like that for bosnia, should continue, and i would invite a continuing generosity in connection with these programmes on what is a very sensitive issue.
mr president, victims of ill-treatment almost by definition come from countries in which ill-treatment is routinely dispensed. it might be tempting to see perpetrators and victims as quite different people. however, victims, when they get the opportunity, very quickly become perpetrators. we have seen this behavioural transition in libya recently. rebel soldiers representing the victims of gaddafi have been found to be as keen as mustard to deal out arbitrary beatings, torture and summary execution to gaddafi and his men when they fall into rebel hands. when we give sanctuary to people from countries that routinely dispense injustice, are we importing the very behaviour that we condemn and from which asylum-seekers are supposedly fleeing? it all depends on whether you see distinct peoples as the product of distinct cultures or you see distinct cultures as the product of distinct peoples. now there is a question for you to ponder over!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, when a delegation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety went to the european medicines agency a few weeks ago, we were told that this issue is a top priority for the medicines agency: 25 000 eu citizens are dying every year from conditions which used to be treated with antibiotics which are no longer effective. i have someone very close to me who had a little boy who was ill for many months with something which would have been routinely treated with antibiotics just a few years ago. so we know it is a problem. we know the main cause is overuse of antibiotics and misuse of antibiotics by humans – people not taking their antibiotics to the end of their course. but i just want to say one thing. we have had a lot of lobbying over the last few days – and ms grossetête has mentioned this – from companies which make veterinary medicines. they are saying that the science suggesting a link between veterinary medicines and human health is not proved. that is not what the european medicines agency says; that is not what the ecdc tells us; that is not what the world health organisation tells us. so, commissioner, i am very pleased that you are going to bring forward a plan which looks at human health, how doctors prescribe and where we can exchange best practice between our doctors and our health services, but which will also look at animal feed and veterinary practices and veterinary medicines. we do need to get this right. we are also revising the common agricultural policy, and we need to look at more sustainable methods of farming as well. we look forward to your plan. i think we will need some incentives for pharmaceutical companies, to help them bring forward the right kind of antibiotics. this is an urgent issue, and that is why we wanted to make sure this was on the agenda today in this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank mr leinen for his clear exposition of the issue here. there is clearly a very broad consensus of opinion here about the problem and, i think, a very broad welcome for the commissioner’s announcement of the timetable for his report. i would just like to ask him to ensure that there is a clear presentation and clear analysis of the scientific data in that report, so that we do not have to keep having these discussions about whether the data is good or bad. let us have some really good, clear stuff from the commission. i would like to address a few remarks to the issue of veterinary use. we have heard about how difficult it is to get funding for research for new products for humans. it is doubly difficult in the case of animals. i totally agree that we should be promoting high standards of animal husbandry, but this is not just about high-intensity farming. the logic of a phase-out programme for prophylactics is absolutely clear, but may i please urge caution against a complete prohibition of such use. as a livestock farmer sometimes surrounded by infection, you do need to have that particular weapon in your armoury, albeit to be used sparingly.
mr president, antibiotic resistance is a very serious medical problem in europe. people are dying from nosocomial infections and mra – and nothing can stop these killer bugs. in the past, useless over-prescribing by doctors (and i happen to be one of them) of antibiotics for viral infections was blamed, but in recent years the issue of massive doses being given in animal feeds as growth promoters was also blamed and investigated and the practice was eventually banned. now we need to look again at the routine use of antibiotic prophylaxis in animal husbandry. sometimes it is used to mask poor animal welfare and hygiene, which is clearly unacceptable. however, it is logical that overuse of antibiotics by farmers and vets will eventually lead to microbial resistance in human pathogens. we therefore need more scientific research to settle this controversial issue, but in the meantime i urge farmers and vets to be very cautious.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 27 october 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by roberta angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on combating the sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, repealing framework decision 2004/68/jha (com(2010)0094 – c7-0088/2010 – 2010/0064(cod)) (a7-0294/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on information on the implementation of measures envisaged in the european union programme on children’s rights by roberta angelilli, simon busuttil, manfred weber and salvatore iacolino, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000231/2011 – b7-0627/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on children’s rights in the eu by renate weber, marielle de sarnez, jan mulder, cecilia wikström, sonia alfano, nathalie griesbeck, ramon tremosa i balcells, andrea zanoni, sarah ludford, nadja hirsch and louis michel, on behalf of the alde group (o-000273/2011 – b7-0637/2011).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, we all share the responsibility of protecting children, and i congratulate the rapporteur on a report that is both sensitive and firm in its approach. i led on this report for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and believe our support of the commissioner’s ‘three p’ approach – prevention, protection and prosecution – strengthens this report. prevention is always the best form of protection. i am pleased that the report has included in it consideration of implementing an eu-wide telephone helpline. in the united kingdom we have a successful helpline run by a charity called the lucy faithfull foundation. the helpline offers support and counselling to prevent sexual abuse and protect children at risk. one of the most controversial challenges addressed in this report was the blocking and deletion of child pornography content online. i support the deletion of images and subsequent investigation by the police. everything should be done to stop people accessing illegal images, including blocking. we need to ensure a zero-tolerance approach to child pornography, and we need to take a child-centred approach. a society that protects the vulnerable, such as children, is one we must strive for.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in an era of rapid and apparently effortless global communications, particularly through the internet but also now through mobile phones and ipads and the like, it is vital that we in the european parliament work ever harder to protect children and young adults from the continuing threat of sexual and violent abuse. we as lawmakers have a responsibility to make laws and policies which protect and promote the interests of the most vulnerable in our society. children, for instance, should not be viewed merely as small adults. they are not always capable of asking for help or even knowing when they have been wronged. it is therefore the adults in society who must take responsibility for these children and be their strong and robust advocates. i have been working on this issue for many years, first as a minister in the uk home office involved in the un convention on children’s rights, the meeting in stockholm in sweden in 1996 and then as rapporteur on a previous european parliamentary report back in 2000 to combat child pornography on the internet. i called for stronger preventive measures to tackle this menace and i asked member states to work with each other and the law enforcement agencies and units such as europol to make sure that illegal websites were closed down and perpetrators brought to justice. it was a very similar backbone to ms angelilli’s report. it concerns me that, despite the legislative, financial and specialist input into this problem, millions of children across the eu are still at risk today. the violation of children’s rights must be stopped, so i am pleased that the ecr group and my government in the uk are supportive of the aims and proposals of this directive, which goes even further than what i proposed in 2000. i am grateful for the work which ms angelilli and others from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the committee on culture and education have done in this area. i particularly welcome proposals to introduce a new offensive aiming to criminalise online grooming. i am also pleased this report advocates a more robust approach to criminal checks on professionals who want to work with children and encourages member states to take the necessary steps to ensure that children who report abuse from within their own family are protected. i would like to conclude my remarks by referring to the comments made by the british prime minister recently at an event in london last week which i attended. he reiterated that child trafficking and child exploitation were inexcusable and had to be stopped. although this dossier finally does not deal specifically with child trafficking, i believe there is a political will at uk and eu level to continue our efforts to work on behalf of children and act as their advocates; they are our future, they are entitled to grow up free of these threats.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my group would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the good cooperation in difficult negotiations. whilst we certainly welcome the offence of online grooming being created, i must admit we found the attitude of council in not wanting to incorporate grooming in all senses into this on the grounds that it already exists in national legislation a little surprising, given that many of the other offences here also exist in national legislation. my group, too, welcomes the inclusion for the first time in eu legislation of sex tourism related to children and the jurisdiction over nationals travelling for the purposes of child abuse, but we also agree with the commission that it is a pity that we have not been able to find a solution on those enjoying habitual residence. we also welcome the recognition of the need to deal with the associated advertising and facilitation of such travel. we, too, welcome the measures to deal with the exclusion of convicted offenders from employment involving direct and regular contact with children. we welcome the move to make it possible for employers to request information about the potential employees for professional or organised voluntary activities with children, according to national law. article 25 relating to websites was particularly difficult to negotiate, as has already been said, and obviously the priority must be to protect children. however, there are legitimate concerns that measures employed for this crucial purpose become co-opted for other purposes of state control. the solution reached in this directive is important and has the full support of my group. we also welcome support for survivors knowing the tragic consequences that such abuse has for so many children throughout their lives. finally, we welcome the recognition, too, of the difference for consensual sexual activity between young people, whom we do not want to criminalise for behaviour that may be foolish but which is certainly not exploitative.
mr president, i welcome this report into the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. in northern ireland, my constituency, recent figures show us that 18% of all children on the child protection register are in a category that includes sexual abuse. it is therefore vital that we enhance the protection of these children, especially in the face of new challenges posed by global communications which transcend national boundaries. with more children having access to the internet and social networking sites, it has become easier for sex offenders to prey on their young victims. in the united kingdom internet service providers such as bt are active in helping to combat the issue of online child exploitation by voluntarily blocking inappropriate sites. although this is a step in the right direction, it must be highlighted that many of these sites are hosted outside of member states and cannot be taken down. i would like to see agreements in place that target such websites on a global scale. this is an area where member states can, and must, act for the common good. whilst we discuss the current threats facing children as a result of ever-evolving channels of communication, i would also like to remind this house of the many children, now adults, across northern ireland and the republic of ireland, who have been the victims of horrific historical, clerical and institutional child abuse stretching back many decades. just last month an inquiry into historical institutional abuse was launched in northern ireland. for these victims of child sex abuse, their issues are as real today as when they first happened, and we must support them too.
madam president, the eu has a good story to tell about its work to protect children. earlier this year in the strengthened law on trafficking, we included a requirement to appoint a guardian for unaccompanied child victims which hopefully will help to stop their disappearance from care back into the clutches of the trafficking gangs. the new directive will mean child sex abusers and porn merchants would face a greater prospect of life behind bars. meps rightly fought for tougher sentences. it is also very important that we successively insisted on the ability to prosecute eu citizens who go abroad as sex tourists. i heard horror stories on this on a visit to cambodia a few years ago. among many other initiatives i would mention mutual recognition of disqualifications from working with children, cross-border exchange of criminal records – so that abusers can be tracked when they move – and particular protection of child victims and suspects in the criminal justice system. however, i would like to say a word about something commissioner malmström mentioned, which was the 116000 number for missing children. it is still not operational in, i think, 11 member states, although that was required by last may. in addition there are problems with using mobile phones outside one’s home country because there is a dispute about who picks up the roaming charges. i would urge commissioner malmström to get to grips with this problem and talk to the mobile phone companies – in fact all the phone companies – and try and resolve this problem of the roaming charge because, until that is sorted out, we will not have a universal hotline for missing children.
madam president, my constituency is suffering a hidden epidemic of sexual grooming so i appreciate the efforts of all those involved in producing this report. the grassroots campaigners for the protection of children tell me that the report misses the most important target. to concentrate on online pornography while relegating real-life child sexual abuse to a page 33 annex is to worry about a speck in one eye while ignoring a splintered plank in another. real-life abuse is described in the report as ‘offline grooming’. such terminology is an insult to the victims and their families. it is not offline: it is on our streets. it is not a matter of images: it is a matter of real-life degradation, gang rape, and even murder. but because a disproportionately large number of street groomers are muslims, politically-correct censorship prevents the issue from being properly discussed. because of this deliberate downplaying of the problem, on-street grooming is not even a specific offence in many countries. as a result, the crime remains statistically virtually invisible. this undermines attempts to secure justice for the victims, effective responses from the authorities, and proper penalties for the perpetrators. in my own constituency, the family of charlene downs still waits for justice following the botched prosecution of those arrested over the grooming, rape and murder of their little girl in 2003. despite their belief that 60 other girls had been groomed by the same gang, and that charlene’s body was disposed of in kebabs, the police regarded their report as too sensitive to publish. the consequences of such cowardice became clear four years later when 15-year-old paige chivers went missing, believed murdered, at the hands of the same gang. of course, not all police officers are politically correct cowards, any more than all muslims are groomers. the vast majority are as sickened by these things as we are, but the playing down of the problem in reports like this aids the criminal minority and leaves new victims at risk. the more serious crimes should get the attention.
madam president, child abuse material has been rapidly increasing in prevalence on the internet and the severity of such content is worsening. indeed the statistics reveal a truly harrowing story. in the uk, for example, bt internet alone estimates that their blocking technology prevents 40 000 attempts to access known child abuse websites every single day. that is over 14 million attempts every year. that is why i am pleased to see the commission’s proposal for a directive on combating this issue. sadly there is one aspect which, as well as causing significant controversy, provoked an emotionally charged debate; this of course was the issue of blocking versus deletion. no-one is suggesting that blocking is 100% effective. however blocking is a quick and crucial short-term disruption tactic. quite simply, it is my belief that the protection of our children and the apprehension of the criminals who perpetrate these abuses should take precedence over freedom of the internet and the human rights of those sick individuals who view this material. i am sure that the majority of european citizens will share this belief. the sad truth is that, whilst action on the online sphere is valuable, the best way to prevent child abuse images circulating on the internet is to stop child abuse – full stop! i would like to ask members of this house to disregard the implications inferred from the statement from mr griffin.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 27 october 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on minimum standards for the qualification and status of third country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection and the content of the protection granted (recast) (com(2009)0551 – c7-0250/2009 – 2009/0164(cod)) (a7-0271/2011).
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking all the shadows on this report, the staff members from the three institutions – not least my own office – the presidencies concerned and the commission for their interest, effort and commitment over the time we have been negotiating the revision of this directive. i would also like to thank the experts who have supported us. this year marks the 60th anniversary of the geneva convention on refugees. at eu level, it is this directive which sets out the standards for qualification for international protection: for those classic refugees who have a well-founded fear of persecution – such as many of those who dared to oppose colonel gadaffi and thus qualified for refugee status; and for those at risk of serious harm – perhaps a teenage girl facing the death penalty in iran for having sexual intercourse outside marriage, who could then perhaps qualify for subsidiary protection. as well as setting out such criteria, the directive deals with the content of such protection, such as access to healthcare or education. the revision of the directive is limited; it is a recast. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs would like to have dealt with such issues as ‘actors of protection’, where the majority of us believe this should only be the state. that is why we have cited article 7 as one we think should be looked at in the next review, as should the definition of ‘family members’. i also wish to put on record my own concern at the lack of change in article 10(1)(d), where the cumulative definition of a social group was maintained by the commission rather than being offered as an alternative. i trust, at least, that the ten member states operating in the optional perspective will continue to do so. however, some progress has been made. the definition of a social group which could suffer persecution must now include due consideration of gender-related aspects. we have also included a reference to legal tradition and customs in recital 30. we also include sexual orientation and, for the first time, gender identity. we should not expect people to deny their identity throughout their lifetime in the hope that this will make them safe from persecution. as concerns children – the topic of the last debate – recital 18 lays down some principles, though not an exhaustive list, to help in determining the best interests of the child. this principle is also linked to entitlement to benefits. in article 31 we have sought to improve the tracing of family for unaccompanied minors, across the asylum process. with regard to the content of protection, we have tried to ensure the same treatment for all beneficiaries of international protection and have achieved this in many areas, notably in terms of recognition of qualifications and access to employment. people want to contribute to the country that is providing protection. however, a few member states have insisted on being able to maintain certain differences between the two groups. this seems to be based on the misapprehension that those at risk of serious harm will need protection for a shorter period of time than those at risk of serious persecution. our fight – maybe i should say our debate – over the length of residence permits yielded a small victory. however, we would invite the member states most concerned in relation to difference of treatment to reflect as to whether an annual consideration of status is a good use of public money, and whether it reduces administrative burdens or provides a better context for integration than a period of at least three years. after all, there is a possibility of using cessation provisions if a need for protection changes. to conclude, this revised directive takes small, but important, steps towards a common european asylum policy, but the system is only as common as the consistent high quality of its implementation across all participating member states. we hope that movement on this directive will help provide impetus for the remaining measures and show that progress is possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, today someone who is seeking protection in the european union can be subject to quite a cruel lottery because conditions vary a lot between the member states. they vary in terms of the procedures, the administration, the rights he or she has, the length of the procedures, whether he or she is considered to be entitled to protection or not, and what he or she can do in the meantime while waiting for the authorities to make a decision. this is of course not acceptable, because we are all in the same european union with the same values and standards and laws, and we have all signed up to international conventions such as the geneva convention. it is not only us here who think that this is not an acceptable situation. member states and their heads of states have in their absolute wisdom realised this. that is why they have called for us to set in place, by 2012, a common european asylum system, so that we will have harmonised systems so that every person is treated more or less in the same way. we have heard all about a common european asylum system before, but this time it is really time to put it into action. 2012 is tomorrow. we need a system with high standards, with harmonised procedures, we need these to be transparent and predictable, and we need special provisions for the most vulnerable. we need quick procedures. if a person can stay he or she can then quickly move into his new society and integrate. if he or she cannot stay, then he or she will have to be sent back under dignified conditions. today, 10 countries of the european union receive 90% of the asylum seekers. that means that 17 countries could do more if the administration and systems were there. then we would more equally share the responsibility and we would also be able to give more protection to those who are really in need. this is important, and that is why the vote tomorrow and the report that we are discussing today is so important. it is an important milestone towards this goal, so let us work together – all the institutions, all of you – to achieve this and to move forward not only on this but also on the other reports.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? in reply to some of the doubts expressed in the speakers' speeches, i would like to say that we are aware that we are only or at the end of a certain stage. the polish presidency is well aware of the work that still lies ahead. the common european asylum system is one of the key priorities of our presidency and i can assure you that from the beginning of this presidency we have been working to speed up the work on the other documents that form part of this system. we are absolutely convinced that it is still possible to complete the work by the deadline set, which is the end of 2012. as president, we will do everything possible to make that happen.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all who have participated in the debate today. it is true that we have difficulties with our asylum system; we know that the results can be very different from country to country, and we are also aware that this one step forward is not going to solve all the problems – although we know that it will give greater clarity in certain areas and hopefully provide a stronger base for member states to build on the good practice which exists in some and to share that with the others. we have heard a number of regrets. well, we all have a few but, then again, maybe not too few to mention on this occasion. certainly in terms of the correlation tables: yes, we would like to have seen those. we would have liked to see member states being very clear about their implementation but, on the other hand, what i think we are more interested at this point is actually moving forward in terms of the content and the common asylum system. i think it says a lot that the rapporteurs from the other asylum dossiers have all been present tonight at this debate, and many have spoken. the willingness of parliament to move forward is extremely clear, because this is a team effort. i thank people for their warm words, but this is a team effort and involves compromise and solidarity amongst us in parliament to try and move things in council. as we have heard, we hope that the movement on this directive – and i hope that groups will be voting in favour of it tomorrow (and maybe one or two groups might like to reconsider their abstentions) – will help provide impetus for the remaining measures and show that progress is possible, and that quality and consistency build confidence among the member states and the public and deliver sound humanitarian protection for those in need. i think that is what we need to have at the front of our minds when we are looking at this asylum package.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i agree with others and particularly the rapporteur, sophie in’t veld, that this is a much tighter, more focused and stronger agreement than the one in the past. it is a much better agreement because of the role of the european parliament. i congratulate all those involved in producing an agreement that most of us will be able to vote for, despite some weaknesses. but the strengths include those mentioned: a much tighter purpose definition to limit it to terrorism and serious transnational crime, the fact that it is ‘push’ only and that the data protection safeguards on rectification and erasure and redress and also the data security provisions are good, with for instance an audit record of all access. so like other speakers i hope that this can become something of a precedent for the other two agreements, and i would draw the attention of the us authorities in particular to this agreement. my main difficulty with the agreement is the fact that it does not deal up front with the question of profiling. the european commission has dodged this issue for years. i did a report two and a half years ago on profiling, just before the last elections. the european commission keeps using synonyms and keeps falling back on this phrase (which is in the agreement): that it bans any decision which significantly affects or produces an adverse legal effect on a passenger solely on the basis of the automated processing of data. the whole question of profiling goes further than that, and we need to address it, use the term, define it, say what is allowed, what is not allowed and what the safeguards are. i do not think it helps for the commission to refuse to face up to this issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we have heard from others what may be wrong with this agreement, or where it may fall short in their view. perhaps we should also focus on what is good about it and, more importantly, why we need it. this is a vital tool which enables law enforcement agencies to prevent and combat the most serious of crimes and to capture the most serious of criminals: terrorists, murderers, people-traffickers, paedophiles, rapists and drug smugglers, to name but a few. to answer the critics, yes, we have a responsibility to our citizens to protect their data and their civil liberties, which i feel this agreement has done, but we also have an unavoidable responsibility to protect all the people of europe from harm. that is why i, and my ecr colleagues, will be voting in favour of the agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to join other colleagues in thanking ms iotova for an excellent report into what appears to be an admirable year for the ombudsman. it is a pleasure to serve on the committee on petitions once again. i first served on it 27 years ago for a period. at that time there was no ombudsman and no effective procedure for complaints into maladministration by the eu institutions, but today we can reflect not only on the fact that the ombudsman’s office is there, is fully staffed, has a budget and has a mandate, but that its mandate has been increased by the lisbon treaty to include foreign and defence policy and the new external action service. this new scope will be a challenge for the ombudsman, but i am sure he will meet it, as he always does, with the full cooperation of the european parliament, and especially its committee on petitions. it is important that when maladministration is alleged there is a framework within which this can be decided. i am pleased to see that the ombudsman is promulgating a statement of public service principles which our civil servants in parliament, the commission and elsewhere within the eu can read and understand and follow. it is good to see, too, that the ombudsman is using very frequently a process of conciliation before a formal procedure is begun. this is all extremely encouraging and, from my group’s point of view, we would like mr diamandouros to continue his excellent work and to endorse fully the report by ms iotova, which we adopted in committee on 13 june. we would like to thank you all for your work.
mr president, there is much to praise in the clear and easily comprehensible report of the ombudsman. the different categories of alleged maladministration were defined precisely and the criteria for admissibility were explained clearly. however, greek ombudsmen should beware eurosceptics bearing compliments. the word ‘ombudsman’, i am reliably told, means ‘grievance man’. i am afraid it is the only swedish word i know. there are many grievances about the european union among british nationals, but they have little to do with time limits, incorrect applications of procedural rules, requests for information or even that most heinous of all offences, discrimination. they concern loss of sovereignty, net contributions to the budget, embrace of globalism, prescriptive social liberalism and the absence of referendums. i am sure that these would all fail the admissibility criteria, but they are real grievances nevertheless.
mr president, in some respect these conclusions are quite surreal. they start with the council congratulating itself for having taken unprecedented steps to combat the effects of the financial crisis. the fact is that it has been forced to take unprecedented steps, but always too little and too late – forced to do so by nervous markets because of its uncertainty and hesitation. the conclusions go on to talk about our ‘ambitious agenda for growth’, but the truth is we simply do not have an agenda for growth and we certainly do not have one for job creation. we should have, with 23 million people unemployed, but incredibly these conclusions do not even mention unemployment. it is quite outrageous that the conclusions talk about improving the growth and employment outlook. just a few weeks ago the council, with the support of the liberals and epp here, was happy to agree an economic governance package without accepting any differentiated treatment of public investment spending. now it is calling on member states to focus public spending on growth areas, but there is no real public money available to spend on growth areas in the next few years, what with the collapse in growth rates and the demand that deficits be brought under 3% by 2013. to make matters worse, the conclusions later say that building on the ‘six pack’, the european semester and the europe plus pact, euro area member states will be required to adopt the fiscal rules translating the stability and growth pact deficit and debt rules into national legislation, preferably at a constitutional level by the end of 2012. this is fundamentally anti-democratic; it is a barefaced attempt by the currently dominant right to permanently embed their austerity agenda into national constitutions; it is an attempted rightwing coup which tries to freeze out alternative ideological approaches to dealing with the crisis. the budget balance concept is a political concept, and if it becomes embedded in national constitutions it will permanently enshrine a major chunk of rightwing ideology, moving it away from normal democratic processes. it would shift the essence of the stability and growth pact away from political debate and profoundly affect the way that progressive politics can be conceived and pursued at both national and european level. the other striking thing about these conclusions, mentioned by martin schulz, is the total lack of regard for this parliament. this directly-elected institution should be directly involved in economic governance. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i agree. i think that, as mr daul said earlier – i thought he put it extremely well – president barroso has outlined a set of proposals here today, summarising what was agreed at council last night, that will benefit the bankers. as mr daul said, let us try to begin to address the problems of the poorest in society. that is what we need to do.
mr president, it is good that some progress was made during the european council summit last night and it seems that the financial markets are cautiously celebrating. i am pleased that president van rompuy and president barroso are here this morning. mr verhofstadt, your gratuitous remarks about my prime minister are totally unacceptable. the eurozone countries must, of course, find a solution to the problems inherent in fiscal union. the weak must be strengthened, but in the short term this is a big ask of the strong, especially germany. we need more details of the changes to the efsf, as decisions taken behind closed doors seem confusing in the cold light of day. those member states who are not in the eurozone should be committed to the success of the plans, but we must make sure that overall competitiveness and growth and employment in all 27 states are not adversely affected as a result, while cutting regulation and red tape must remain a priority.
mr president, it would appear the markets have been calm this morning – but for how long, mr van rompuy? one of the agreed measures is for banks to raise more capital. how is this going to happen? will they simply stop loaning? how will that affect growth in the economy? will we possibly see control of the region’s banking system handed over to the middle east and asia? europe is not giving new money to the banks, and instead they are expected to find eur 100 billion themselves and also write down eur 20 billion of greek debt. this can only come from restricted lending or from outside investors taking advantage of the buyers’ market and will probably end up buying up most of the european banking system. rather than admit the project is a failure and seek to carefully dismantle it, instead you are willing to sell it. perhaps you are going to take raffle tickets to the next g20 meeting, with the top prize being greece. this whole period has raised some serious questions about you, mr van rompuy. as the leaders of europe have been bickering and squabbling and falling deeper into the mire, the newly-elected president should surely have jumped to attention and started to flex his muscles. but you have been about as visible as credit in the european governments’ treasury. the euro has done more for european disunity than anything else, turning country against country, leader against leader, taxpayer against government. outside the united nations you stated that the eu was the fatherland of democracy. so who is the mother? perhaps the soviet union. mr van rompuy, i want to ask you if you would kindly give me an answer when you stand up in a few minutes. i want you clearly to tell me what you believe the cost for this recent rescue bailout will be to the united kingdom.
mr president, as ever we await details. concerning the efsf, the credit enhancement option has similarity to mortgage and us department guarantees, whilst the spv option has similarities with known structured products. however, neither has been tested on the markets on this scale and so there will be challenges to meet in deployment. the spv funds need to be found at a reasonable cost, and then we will have a window to get the growth package working and sort out the debt overhang, or we will find ourselves facing similar problems again. bank recapitalisation and – still missing – crisis resolution are overdue, in part because of political weakness and previous denials of the situation. in consequence, taxpayers will now bear more of the cost. finally, overall, we still have to find a solution for the fact that growth was built on debt for too long. the solution is not more of the same.
mr morganti, we note what you have said.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report and am happy that the office of the ombudsman, which currently has an establishment plan of 64 posts (20 officials and 44 temporary agents) and a budget of around eur 9 million, uses these resources to ensure that eu citizens enjoy their rights fully and to work to enhance the quality of the eu administration.
in writing. − ukip is firmly against all forms of sexual offences against children and in favour of tough, comprehensive criminal law to criminalise all forms of sexual offences against young people. the uk already has a considerable body of criminal law dealing with these crimes and remains at the forefront of developing new laws and techniques to combat perpetrators' activities as they develop in the internet age. ukip supports the thrust of this report but cannot, as a matter of principle, concede to the eu the right to determine uk criminal law. for that reason we have abstained.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which says that serious forms of child sexual abuse and sexual exploitation should be subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. this includes, in particular, various forms of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation facilitated by the use of information and communication technologies, such as the online solicitation of children for sexual purposes via social networking websites and chat rooms. the definition of child pornography should also be clarified and brought closer to that contained in international instruments.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the proposal from the commission for a recasting of directive 2004/83/ec which forms part of the move towards a common european asylum policy by 2012. the existing directive has two key elements: the grounds on which someone qualifies for refugee status or subsidiary protection and the content of that protection in terms of residence, employment and social rights within the member state responsible for protection. an important change proposed here is to approximate the two categories of protection more closely and thus to refer generally to beneficiaries of international protection.
in writing. − i, together with my conservative colleagues, abstained from voting on the lambert report. the report amends a 2004 eu directive on asylum policy. the uk government has rightly chosen to opt out of the revised directive, so that it will not apply to the uk. the directive will make it more difficult for member states to refuse asylum claims and could lead to further abuse of the asylum system through a broadening of the definition of the family, with respect to family reunions. i have always said that immigration and asylum policy must remain a uk government competency, and i strongly oppose any move towards a one-size-fits-all eu immigration and asylum policy. i am happy that the uk has opted-out of the revised directive and therefore i abstained.
in writing. − i voted against this request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the eu-australia pnr agreement with the treaties as i believe the legal position is clear.
in writing. − the european union is negotiating three international agreements, with australia, canada and the us, on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data. pnr data is provided by passengers, collected by air carriers and used for their ticketing, reservation, and checking-in systems. given its commercial nature, pnr data contains several kinds of information, ranging from names, addresses, passport numbers, and credit card information to information on other passengers, travel routes, and travel agents. on 5 may 2010 and 11 november 2010, the european parliament set out its criteria for giving its consent to agreements with third countries on the transfer of pnr data. these appear to have be met, in the case of australia, so i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the egyptian authorities to ensure full respect for all fundamental rights, including freedom of association, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, conscience and thought for all citizens in egypt, including coptic christians, and that coptic christian communities do not fall victim to violent attacks and can live in peace and freely express their beliefs throughout the country. it calls for the adequate protection of churches in order to put an end to the continuous aggression and destruction of churches by islamic extremists and welcomes continued efforts to adopt a ‘common code for building places of worship’, stressing that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental right guaranteed by legal instruments.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which deplores the sentencing of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko as a violation of human rights and an abuse of the judiciary for the purpose of the political suppression of ukraine’s leading opposition politician. it emphasises that the law selectively applied against tymoshenko dates back to soviet times and makes provision for criminal prosecution for political decisions, and articles 364 and 365 of that law, which are currently under review by the verhovna rada, do not conform to european and un standards.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and particularly welcome paragraph 20 which states ‘considers the decline in research and development to be the result of a market failure and calls on the commission to make proposals, via regulatory pathways and other types of measures, to create or improve incentives for the pharmaceutical industry to intensify investment in research into, and development of, new antimicrobial agents and possible alternatives’. i also voted for amendment 7, which would have strengthened this paragraph further but was unfortunately defeated.
mr president, there are shocking reports now of these eight monks and one nun self-immolating in china’s sichuan province. in each case, seven of which have occurred in the last month, the self-immolation was undertaken in protest at china’s restrictive policies in tibet, and in particular over the 300 monks who were taken away from the kirti monastery in april. tibetans are still without any news of their current whereabouts and well-being. with the dalai lama now in exile for more than 45 years, the eu must urge the government of the people’s republic of china not only to provide information on the whereabouts of the missing monks but also, in the longer term, to take measures to ensure that the distinct cultural, religious and national identity of the six million tibetan people is protected and preserved. we urge the chinese authorities to ensure that those tibetans who have survived their self-immolations are now allowed to recover in hospital and receive the medical treatment that they require, to take steps to lift the siege on the ngaba region, removing the heavy security presence in the area and the military personnel posted around the kirti monastery, and, lastly and most importantly, to suspend the implementation of beijing’s repressive religious control regulations.
author. − mr president, we must congratulate the bahraini people on their arab spring struggle for democratic change. we deeply regret the loss of life to date and the fact that criminal sentences handed down to anti-government protesters have been too severe. the bahraini courts have decided to drop several of the lower charges against them, but the more serious accusations still remain. certain civilians are inappropriately being put on trial in special military courts. so bahrain does not appear consistently to be upholding civil liberties – specifically the right to appeal and equal access to justice – in a way that meets international standards. we now look forward to the findings of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry set up by his majesty king hamad and hope that it will be a means to prevent any more potential abuses from occurring in the future. the eu must urge the government of bahrain not only to show restraint when attempting to control protests but also to engage in an open and constructive dialogue with all of its people – in particular the disenfranchised majority shia population – and to involve all democratic political parties, including the opposition parties, and recognise the right of the bahraini people to exercise freedom of expression, association and assembly.
a uachtaráin, ar an ábhar ceannann céanna. nuair a labhraímse anseo i bparlaimint na heorpa, labhraím i ngaeilge agus scríobhtar síos an méid a deirim sa cre i ngaeilge. fanann an téacs ansin go dtí go n-aistrítear an téacs sin go dtí na 22 teanga eile. ag an bpointe sin, imíonn an ghaeilge. imíonn an téacs i ngaeilge den mhéid a dúirt mé i ngaeilge, ó shuíomh idirlín na parlaiminte agus ní thig le duine ar bith teacht air ina dhiaidh sin. caithfear amharc air sin chomh maith. (ghearr an tuachtarán isteach ar an gcainteoir)
go raibh maith agat, a uachtaráin.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, we have in the past had problems with our rail networks since the difficult transition from nationalised rail services to privatisation. serious problems have also arisen from the 1991 eu directive requiring member states to separate the management of railway operation from the provision of transport services. due to kowtowing to brussels, measures are implemented which are not often beneficial to the british public and are exercised with considerable difficulty. there is also an argument that for safety reasons it would be more beneficial for railway maintenance and locomotive operators not to be commercially separate. particularly in light of the fact that we are not interconnected with mainland europe (bar the channel tunnel), the directive has an unnecessary and disproportionate impact upon our railways. it is widely held that the first railway package was a failure leading to open conflict in committee meetings. it is then inconceivable to support a costly and disruptive proposal which does not serve to benefit the uk.
madam president, increasing the independence and powers of national bodies is good. the failings of the railway package are laughable, and the share of freight being moved by rail has actually fallen since the first railway package in 2001. are the eu regulations enforced? the commission will not enforce the regulations on battery cages for hens, which may well force producers who have complied out of business. so what is this about enforcement? will cash-strapped national governments pay their fines? some pay fines then continue to break the same rule, because the annual revenue collected exceeds the amount of the annual eu fine. the commission has taken 13 member states to the european court of justice for failing to correctly implement various parts of the railway package. was anything enforced? here the eu sought control over national policy-making decisions on railways: for example, stopping the political will to run nationalised railways. these are matters of national sovereignty and the freedom of the voters – not the eu. the report criticises member states for lack of investment to meet this package, but we are in a middle of an economic crisis. the legislation does not require clarification or improvement. it clearly should be scrapped.
rapporteur. − madam president, earlier this year i was given the privilege of being the rapporteur for this report; my first since being elected. the issue of professional qualifications is very important and is one of the top priorities of the single market act to boost growth. the report is a great opportunity for parliament to provide real input and focus for the commission’s future legislative proposal due to be released on 13 december. first and foremost, i would like to thank my fellow shadows; i am extremely grateful for all the input they have provided throughout the process. over the past few months, i have met with many different professionals, regulators, competent authorities and other stakeholders. they all tell me the same thing: professionals across the eu are waiting for us to deliver on our promise to enhance mobility. they are providing essential services across the eu, helping to drive our economy and enhancing our citizens’ quality of life. they are keen to help deliver for the single market. we need to provide a framework that enables them to do this. in drafting my report, i took into consideration their views and came up with four areas where improvements in the directive could be made. in the first place, we need to simplify information and procedures for citizens and professionals. competent authorities, professional bodies and member states need to provide clear, concise and centralised information to professionals. that is why i have asked the commission to establish an on-line portal that clearly provides all the necessary information and signpost professionals to the relevant authorities in the host member state. secondly, a number of the provisions currently used in the directive require immediate updating. critically, we also need to update the way in which professions are regulated across the eu. i firmly believe that the most effective way to enable the free movement of workers would be to reduce the number of regulated professions in europe, whilst maintaining the necessary safeguards and caveats for those professions with health and safety implications. indeed, the protection of public health and safety is a vital aspect of this directive. continuous professional development is absolutely crucial in maintaining professional standards, especially in the healthcare sector. on the controversial issue of languages, i have asked that the commission clarify the provisions in the directive so as to allow competent authorities flexibility in assessing language skills during the recognition process. most importantly, i have asked the commission to implement a proactive alert mechanism contained within the internal market information system that will trigger an alert to all member states when regulatory action has been taken against a professional’s rights to provide services, whilst respecting personal data protection. finally, a major problem described by many professionals in the public consultation is quite simply a lack of trust in the current system. i therefore asked the commission to introduce an obligation that competent authorities proactively share information over the imi system to inject this confidence. now we come to the issue of the professional card. it is clear that whilst it may be valuable to some professions, concerns raised in the pilot projects reveal that the concept still needs to be refined. that is why i am very clear in my belief that any card must be voluntary, and that a thorough impact assessment is absolutely crucial to determine whether or not the professional card will be a useful initiative. sadly, a number of my colleagues did not share my view and instead voted in committee to push the card through without an impact assessment. however, in my report we have called on the commission to provide evidence of added value of the card before it is introduced, and i hope that they will do just that. there are other areas where i would have preferred a different outcome and which i hope we can improve on with the legislative proposal. nonetheless, the report as a whole provides an excellent indication to the commission on parliament’s position. on a number of issues we are very clear: we need to make information on recognition easier to understand and access; we need to update those existing provisions that are out of date, and we need member states to reconsider the justifications for regulating certain professions. we must maintain and build up the protections granted to the public and patients by establishing an alert mechanism. finally, we must inject confidence into the system, utilising imi, ensuring proper transposition by member states and investigating the potential value of a professional card. to finish, i would like to thank the commission, especially jürgen tiedje and once gain the shadows and advisers for working so hard on this dossier. i look forward to working closely with all of you again when the legislative proposal is released later this year; thank you for helping to make my first report such a success.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it gives me great pleasure to welcome this report as the chair of the committee, and indeed i pay tribute to all my colleagues who have worked so intensively on it, but also to thank emma mcclarkin very much for what has been a really impressive piece of work for her first report. it shows that this group in particular is deeply engaged with issues that we want to move forward on the internal market. this report represents more than two years of work by members of my committee. ms mcclarkin has pulled together many of the issues that we have worked on in two public hearings, in an interparliamentary meeting, and indeed in one-to-one meetings with parliamentarians in different countries. it is an indication of how this parliament should be working. we are going to get a proposal from the commissioner – and i welcome him very much here today and thank him for that work – but we want to feed into that, as he said, before he puts that piece of work together. we are talking about issues like smarter and better regulation in this parliament. this is the way that committees need to be engaged in that. this is a great example. i want to thank all my colleagues for working on this. finally, i would say as far as the single market is concerned, that the single market is not a bloodless bureaucratic creation. it is built on the skills and talent of millions of people, and people have an entitlement under the single market rules to have their qualifications speedily and effectively recognised. we are not delivering that entitlement properly, but hopefully as of next year we will be able to.
madam president, this own-initiative report on the professional qualifications directive is another piece of ideologically-driven harmonisation. it calls for minimum training requirements, automatic recognition and the removing of formal obstacles to recognition of professional qualifications. it goes on to say that ‘only if necessary should language tests be part of the recognition process and cannot be an additional border to mobility’. most normal people would want professional qualifications, especially medical qualifications, to be subject to maximum, not minimum, standards – and not speaking the language properly should very much be a bar to practising and mobility. there is a case that clearly demonstrates the dangers. in 2008, a german-qualified doctor, dr daniel ubani, was convicted in england of gross negligence and manslaughter after he overprescribed drugs to a patient. this directive means we cannot discriminate against eu professionals, while we must discriminate against properly-qualified fluent english speakers from the commonwealth. this is another good reason, if we needed one, why britain should leave the european union.
madam president, i speak tonight as the daughter of two doctors, the sister of a doctor and the wife of another doctor. for generations, the uk has welcomed and valued doctors from many countries. however, the directive is not as successful as the commissioner would like us to believe. colleagues, please consider the tragic death of one of my constituents, mr david gray. he was killed by a doctor. the doctor did not recognise the drug he took from the standard medicine bag and administered a lethal dose. a tragedy like this undermines confidence in the very many thousands of excellent doctors from many different countries we have working in our country and across the eu. all doctors need to prove to the national regulator that they have not only academic qualifications but also have language and communications skills, as well as familiarity with local practices, and the eu directive must be amended to allow this. part of recognising professional qualifications is also recognising disqualifications. the ‘alert’ mechanism will help, but we must be able to share concerns as well as judgements. i welcome the report but would have liked to see it go further. patient safety must come before politicians.
rapporteur. − madam president, we find ourselves in an extraordinary economic crisis and it is really time for the eu to focus on its real priorities. delivery of the single market is absolutely key to that, and free movement of workers is a fundamental building block of that single market. enhancing mobility for professionals will boost economic growth so simplification and speeding up of processes must be our goal. we need to increase confidence in recognition processes. part of that will be looking at the language question. as the report actually calls for a revision of the existing requirements by providing competent authorities with the flexibility to ascertain and test the language skills of professionals, it will alleviate that problem. the alert mechanism will also help make sure that cases such as dr ubani do not happen again. we need to balance the needs of professionals against those of patients and consumers alike, easing recognition and facilitating mobility whilst not compromising the standards of service and safety for our citizens. i look forward to the commission’s proposal. i hope you take on the concerns and the calls from parliament in the report. we must get this right because it is time to deliver.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my home constituency of london on having been selected to host the 2017 world athletics championships. i am sure members are aware that the olympic games are being held in london next year. hosting two world class sporting events in the next five years is good news, not only for london and the uk, but also for europe. i am proud of my city and of my country. as such, i cringe at proposals to include the eu flag on sportsmen’s national shirts. when the british athletes proudly mount the podium to receive their gold medals, the only flag i want to see is the union jack. i hope other member states will also have enough pride in their countries to feel the same way. we look forward to hosting both events and invite you to join us in london.
madam president, in recent months england has seen a series of despicable crimes: memorial plaques recording the names of the heroic dead of two world wars are being systematically stolen for their scrap metal value. decent english people wonder how these revered monuments which have stood safely in cities, towns and villages for generations have become the targets for thieves. today’s daily express reports that the police believe that these crimes are predominantly carried out by romanian gangs. the eu’s open-door policy is directly to blame; we do not just get the decent, honest, hard-working migrants that we might choose. we are forced to take the lowest forms of criminal life merely because they are eu citizens. membership of the eu is destroying my country. what more revolting proof of that could there be than the melting down for scrap of the monuments to those who gave their lives so we could be free.
mr president, i wish to speak on the role of credit rating agencies. these unaccountable agencies have much to answer for in the current crisis. every time they decide to downgrade a member state’s rating, it makes borrowing more expensive, this in turn making the debt crisis worse and calls for austerity measures even louder. and they even make mistakes, as they recently did in france when they mistakenly downgraded that country’s rating. this could, of course, have had serious consequences. i am therefore pleased that the commission is now looking at new rules for these agencies. i hope this look includes the greater regulation of existing agencies and even perhaps involves establishing a new independent agency – one which will be trusted and listened to.
mr president, as this year draws to a close we can look back at a year that started off with democracy blooming across north africa. however, the eu seems to be going in the opposite direction. first of all, we had a greek prime minister promising his people a referendum on the severe economic measures imposed on his country. he trusted the judgement of his electorate, but he was banished for being too democratic and threatened by a german leader: déjà vu. now we have the grotesque sight of an unelected person – a former eu commissioner, mario monti, who has not been elected to anything in his life – given a lifetime seat and appointed italian prime minister. is this the future of europe? unelected government by technocrats? you no longer trust the people of europe, for you know they do not trust you and they have seen through this scam. the arab spring has given way to a nasty, bitter eu winter.
mr president, as the chair of the committee, and also on behalf of my group, i want to warmly welcome this report and thank mr triantaphyllides for continuing the excellent work of mrs svensson. it is unfortunate that such an ambitious and wide-ranging report has to be confined to this relatively short time and we are not having a full debate on it. nevertheless, this is a real call to commissioner dalli, who i warmly welcome here this evening, to be ambitious in his consumer strategy work that he is now developing. this report was commissioned by the coordinators of the committees specifically to feed into that process and it is quite clear when you look at this report that at the moment we have a very fragmented position. we have issues in mr barnier’s directorate, we have issues in mr tajani’s directorate, we have issues with mrs reding’s, and we also have issues on the economic and monetary affairs side, and i welcome the opinion we have had from them. i think you have a big challenge, commissioner dalli, and i hope you will be looking at this thoroughly and coming up with a wide-ranging policy that is going to deliver the sort of framework we need for empowered, confident and well-protected consumers to be at the foundation of a single market, going forward.
mr president, i warmly welcome this report and i want to particularly thank jürgen creutzmann for animating a very detailed and complicated series of negotiations to come up with what, i hope, this chamber will accept with a large majority tomorrow. that is important because it will give a clear signal to commissioner barnier, who i know is extremely interested in this, about the areas where the commission can move forward in the framework of active subsidiarity. i think that is a great word that has come out of this report, which does not undermine the ability of every member state to regulate gambling in its tradition and in its history, but at the same time places an obligation on member states to say that if you do not intensify your cooperation together, then consumers will not be properly looked after in every country. we are entitled to demand that safety and security for consumers and protection for under-age and addictive gambling; those two things absolutely must go together, and i hope we can make some serious progress on this as a result of the work that parliament has done.
mr president, the european court of justice ruled in september that all jars of honey have to contain a label that says: ‘this product contains pollen’. that is extremely unhelpful. of course, honey contains pollen: even a five-year-old child could tell you that. it is like putting a label on a bag of peanuts that says: ‘this bag may contain nuts’. this additional cost to the industry at a time it is fighting against the disease, the varroa mite and colony collapse disorder is extremely unwelcome and unhelpful. we have been dealing in this parliament for months with the consumer information regulation dealing with labels. it is not up to judges to make that decision. it is up to us as legislators here in this house. so i would suggest to the judges that they drape a large banner above the door of their hq in luxembourg that says: ‘this court contains nuts’.
mr president, bees, like their soulmates, the roma, are famed for being free spirits. like the attitude of that noble tribe towards discarded metal, bees care little about the title or provenance of the pollen that they collect. ask any ordinary bee on the clapham omnibus – or the strasbourg tram – what it thinks about pollen from gm crops and it will shrug its little shoulders and say: ‘don’t ask me, guv’nor, i only work here’. if we were to insist that manufacturers of metal products should provide the exact location or source from which the roma recyclers took the metal, then we would be told that this demand was unfair and even discriminatory and would put manufacturers and the roma out of business. what is true for manufacturers and the roma is also true of bees and honey-makers. unreasonable demands that cannot be complied with will indeed drive firms out of business.
mr president, demographics of course is a fascinating subject, and behind great historical developments and changes there is often an untold demographic story. britain is now undergoing a massive population explosion which, until very recently, went unreported. when tony blair became prime minister in 1997, we had a population of just over 58 million. that population has now grown to over 62.4 million and, on current trends, the population will grow to over 70 million by 2030 and thereafter spiral ever upwards. demographers calculate that all this unsustainable population growth is down to migration and births to migrants. there is nothing wrong with some appropriate, moderate and sustainable immigration, but the uk is adding over one million people to its net population every four to five years. england is more densely populated than india, china and japan. britain does not have a cohesion policy, but if it did, it would leave the european union and regain control of its borders and its immigration policy.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is of course a very important subject, particularly so during this current economic crisis. we must be aware that those who are at risk of social exclusion and poverty have to be protected. i know that it is difficult at the moment for member states to set priorities, but i hope that when they do they bear in mind those who are homeless and at risk of poverty and social exclusion in many different ways, whether they are older people, disabled people, young people, children or families. i would like to congratulate the european platform against poverty and social exclusion on the work they have been doing to highlight the problem. while combating poverty is of course mainly the role of member states, the platform helps to coordinate policy for exchange of best practice. we must also build on the lessons of last year’s european year for combating poverty and social exclusion and boost the involvement of civil society, in particular ngos and people living in poverty themselves, whether at european, national, regional or local level. the commission can also play a coordinating role. i am not calling for new legislation at eu level. i do not think that is the right way forward. my group in particular do not want to see eu legislation on minimum income or on social services of general interest. i am sorry that these have been included in the report, and i have asked for separate votes on these. having said that, i am a passionate supporter of minimum income schemes brought in by member states at member state level. we also need national statistics on poverty to be improved. another key area is to make sure that current anti-discrimination legislation is properly implemented and that the horizontal directive on access to goods and services is unblocked in council.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i shall not be voting for this motion and neither will my group. why? because the time for naive and hopeless words has passed, and this is the time to take some action. the root cause of poverty is unemployment. if you want to work, it is our job to provide you with the economic conditions for growth: pure and simple. tinkering around the edges will not help. it will not help to make sweeping statements about member states’ welfare systems; it will not help to encroach on member states’ subsidiarity with regard to minimum wage; it will not help to call for an extension of social protection rights to non-eu citizens; and it will not help for the european commission to take on the role of dishing out country-specific action plans. since when did micro-management by brussels ever help anyone or anything? nobody denies that poverty is a real and pressing problem, but poverty is not to do with human rights – it is to do with lack of opportunity and lack of incentive to work productively. it is time that the committee on employment and social affairs and this plenary got down to their real work: that is, helping member states grow their economies and reduce their appalling increasing rates of unemployment, particularly for our young people. this motion not only interferes with matters that should be tackled at national level – and they are being tackled in many member states – but it puts forward proposals which would actually make nations poorer and less able to deal with the problem. i urge people to think again and vote against.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, to quote from your own documents, ‘national and local events will take place in every eu member state’ – awareness-raising campaigns, workshops, school indoctrination and so on. the documents also say that this is mainly the responsibility of the member state. no eu money is forthcoming, so it is member states’ money. how do those countries most in need manage that? only last month this house voted to raise the take from member states by 5%. of a hundred budget lines some 20 were for a reduction. with like-minded meps, i supported those – which would have saved european taxpayers eur 100 million – but was outvoted by most of you on all except two lines, so only eur 1 million was saved. if people keep more of their earnings, they spend more, helping other businesses to keep going and helping employment. so member states who really need help for this programme will not get it. where will they find the money? you have already raided their bank balances for bailout funds.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this extremely comprehensive report, which i think should be compulsory reading for every finance minister. as my colleague, ms harkin, has just been saying, what we are seeing at the moment is a disconnect between macroeconomic policy and the effect that it actually has on people’s lives on the ground. i want to respond to one or two points made by other colleagues this morning – it is a pity they are not still here. the bailouts are not charity. they are about solidarity, and they come with interest rates attached. the esf itself is about solidarity, and that is why many of us in this house would like to see an increase in the monies going to other countries to help them combat poverty. in terms of the root causes of poverty, i for one do not believe that it is about a lack of opportunity. in some member states where, for example, every job vacancy is being pursued by at least five unemployed people – before you even begin to look at skills mismatches and geographical mismatches – i think it is a little bit difficult to say that we are going to cut the benefits of people who have not found a job when those jobs are not there. investment in social protection, as this report makes very clear, makes sound economic sense. it is an economic stabiliser; it helps recovery; it reduces future costs where we have to pick up the pieces of people whose health has deteriorated and whose educational opportunities have been lost; and it keeps the local economy moving. but i also want to see a reduction in the gap between rich and poor. that is what the ‘occupy’ movement is about – the power of the 1% as against the other 99% – and that is why issues about a living wage and adequate income are essential in this debate.
madam president, at last a debate on poverty. as politicians chase middle-class votes, we should remind ourselves that middle-income voters do not want to live in a society where other people suffer from hunger, homelessness and destitution. i congratulate the commissioner on his approach, but i tell him that i do not want a europe which introduces tough sanctions for breaching eurozone rules but none for breaching anti-poverty targets. i do not want a britain where the institute of fiscal studies says that child poverty – which labour was committed to eliminating – will rise again to 3 million children; a britain where 280 000 disabled people are losing support to be able to work and 80 000 disabled people losing welfare benefits which even allow them to leave their homes; or a britain which yesterday saw confirmation of the closure of 124 sure start centres which had been specifically targeted to help poorer families and which we were promised would stay open. i do feel proud to represent east anglia where one local newspaper, the eastern daily press, is backing the surviving winter campaign with the ngo age uk to highlight that more than 60 000 households in norfolk alone do not have enough means to adequately heat their homes. no one welcomes the 20% rise in fuel bills, but today we should speak for those who are praying that we avoid a cold winter because the alternative is one of misery, penury and, tragically for some, death.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time to the commission. i would like to welcome commissioners andor, hahn and cioloş. the specific topic for question time is the future of the cohesion policy and of the cap. to catch the eye, it is important that the two gentlemen either side of me catch your eye and they will build a list. i will explain at the end of this statement how i intend to help you. i will interpret this topic as widely as possible, but i should warn you that if your question is completely off the topic and deals with external relations, for example, you are liable to be cut off. the rules are that each member has one minute to put his or her question and 30 seconds to put a supplementary. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering. if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute speaking time. because of the difficulty of trying to establish a fair speaking list based on the fact that you simultaneously raise your hands – and it is perfectly reasonable you should do that – we will try and be as accurate as possible in reflecting those who were in the chamber from the beginning. at 11 o’clock, i will let you know who is likely to be called. last time and the time before we got through about 20 questions and there were about 50, or at least 40, of you in the chamber, so it is only fair that those of you who are not going to be called should be told at about 11 o’clock; otherwise it is going to waste your time.
mr president, the commission’s proposals to green pillar one are leading to a great deal of uncertainty amongst the farming communities. in the case of england, farmers have embraced agri-environment schemes, with over 68% of england’s utilisable agricultural area covered by schemes such as the entry level stewardship scheme. many of these five-year agreements are coming to an end and farmers are looking to make decisions on whether to renew their agreements for a further five years. farmers fear that there might be some overlap between the proposals to green pillar one and the requirements of the stewardship schemes. will the commission confirm that if there is an overlap, and the legal baseline or goalposts are indeed changed as a result of greening pillar one, those farmers who are participating in stewardship schemes would be able to leave these schemes once greening comes into force without penalty or recourse to pay back monies?
i thank the commissioner for his response, but he quite adequately displays and represents the uncertainty that exists in the minds of farmers. without that clarification and real guidance being provided by the commission, it is quite clearly understandable as to why so many in the farming community today are left confused, uncertain and unable to plan ahead.
member of the commission. - mr chountis, these figures and the proposal are now on the table of the council and parliament. the commission has made a legislative proposal. this legislative proposal may be amended or adapted by the council and parliament acting jointly. as i said, the legislative proposal was based on the principle of rebalancing aid to make the common agricultural policy more equitable. this is something which has been proposed by parliament. now, as regards the details for the individual member states, the figures will be adjusted first as a result of the council and parliament's decision on the budget of the european union, of which the budget for the common agricultural policy is a part, and then the final decision on the budget for the common agricultural policy will be taken by the parliament and the council in co-decision within the framework of the common agricultural policy, and will establish the final figures for greece as for the other member states.
i want to support and back up my colleague, mr karim, on the subject of environmental schemes. commissioner, we do not feel that you answered our question. there are many people in britain who have land in environmental schemes. it may occupy 1% of their farmland. what they want to know is whether this 1% will count towards the 7% of greening that you intend to bring in, or will the 7% of greening be additional to the 1% they have already put in? as these schemes last for five years, many of them have to renew this year and they need to know. if it is going to be additional, they will simply not go into these contracts.
member of the commission. − what has been proposed for the greening part has no impact on the contract for environmental measures that farmers now have in the rural development programme. the 7% is not the 7% of greening, it is one of the 7% measures which are aimed at the ecological infrastructure at farm level, that is to say areas, parts of parcels which are kept with vegetation other than agricultural production. but if a farmer in the uk, with the help of the rural development programme, plants trees or maintains hedges around parcels, for example, these areas will fall within this 7% and the farmer can continue to benefit from this specific aid in the rural development programme for which he has a contract. but i said there is no link because these greening measures are not contractual, they are not multiannual, they are annual and the commitment made by a farmer under a contract for agri-environmental measures will remain in force until the end of 2013. after 2013, if the member state decides to continue these measures, the farmer may continue to benefit from them. but once the farmer, with the help of this agri-environmental programme, has, for example, planted, maintained areas, ends of plots or even grassed strips, these areas will count for 7%. he won't have to do any more, these surfaces will count in that 7%.
thank you, commissioner, that was actually very helpful, and it is a big thing for me to say that to a commissioner! (laughter)what about capping? we are talking about splitting businesses to harvest more subsidy payments. yes, it is very tempting, but there are genuine reasons for doing it. trying to demonstrate that it is a genuine reason, however, could cost a huge amount in legal fees and take two or three years to establish. i would like you to comment on that. on the issue of cropping, this is madness and surely you can see that. one of our nfu members in britain has said that forcing farmers to grow three different crops of certain percentages is stalinist! it is, and how is it going to help the environment? finally, can you convince anyone at all that taking 7% of crop production out of the eu is going to improve the world’s weather?
member of the commission. - you asked two questions. one on capping and another on the 7% of the ecological infrastructure. i want to be clear about this 7% of green infrastructure. this does not mean that we should remove 7% of the arable land so that it cannot be cultivated. this means that at farm level, we can also maintain the ends of plots, grassy strips, canal banks, roadsides, areas with trees, which are not necessarily productive and which, at present, are not eligible for a subsidy. starting in 2014, we are proposing not only that these areas be eligible but we are even encouraging farmers to maintain them, because alongside the productive arable area, all these areas, these ends of the plots play an important role for biodiversity. as regards the cap on direct aid, this will not prevent the producer from making his production choices. this cap means that if, from 2014, direct payments to farmers are justified as basic income support, starting from a certain amount for very large enterprises, an unlimited amount of public money can no longer be justified as basic income support. that is why we have proposed to cap it at eur 300 000 and to take account of employment in this operation. thus, a large holding which has employment, in addition to the eur 300 000, may also count the cost of employment and have it counted in the direct support. but large farms will still be able to benefit from other types of measures under the common agricultural policy to invest, to modernise, to innovate. direct payments are not the only support a farm can claim under the common agricultural policy. we need more transparency, clarity and efficiency in the use of public money. that is why we have proposed to limit direct payments, but the door remains open to other types of projects which can increase the competitiveness of a large holding.
i said that under this new system of catch-the-eye the officials would prepare a list of those who were here at the beginning of question time and who had put their hands up, as fairly as possible. i have asked them to split them by groups. i am now going to read the names of the 25 who are top of the list, but in reality at the rate we are going we are not going to get more than 10 or 12 questions, so you can make your own calculation. i am going to read the lists by group, so the lower down the list you are the less likely you are to be called. from the epp group: kelly, jeggle, mato adrover, jazłowiecka and hübner. from the s&d group: de castro, andrés barea, merkies, kleva, mavronikolas and lopez aguilar. from the alde group: lyon, manner, rohde. from the greens: hassi. from the ecr group: nicholson. from the efd group: paška and morganti. from the non-attached: ms dodds and mr obermayr. those are the names i have on the list. only those people will be called and only some of them will be called, so now you know. i think it is the only fair way of dealing with this.
commissioner cioloş, i come from northern ireland. the single farm payment there is largely based on a hybrid model – a mixture of flat rate and historic. what assessment have you made of the impact of the transition for those member states who have this historic reference period for the single farm payment? what timing do you envisage for this within member states and will there be flexibility within the member states? it is important in all of this that we do not allow farmers to go out of production. on a completely different note, in northern ireland we have, like many other countries in europe, particular problems with social exclusion, high unemployment among young people, etc. that has been dealt with in some measure by peace funding within my region. can you assure me of the broad support of the college for future peace funding within the region as a tool to tackle social exclusion and unemployment, as well as esf funding?
member of the commission. - mrs dodds, on the system, the historical reference and the new payment system proposed. the historical reference assumes that a holding has been receiving an annual payment for several years based on the level of subsidies it received fifteen years ago. in the hybrid model, as you say, part of the subsidies are based on a historical reference and part on a rebalancing which is already taking place at regional level. this hybrid system is therefore much closer to what the commission is now proposing, i.e. a uniform payment at regional level, in other words, similar support for farms operating under the same agro-economic and climatic production conditions. to do this, the member state already has the flexibility to define, according to criteria of its choice, i.e. agronomic, economic, administrative or pedoclimatic criteria, homogeneous regions in which it will carry out the rebalancing of payments. secondly, this rebalancing can be done until the end of 2019, i.e. in 2019 for the payment to be made in 2020, i.e. in the future budget period. this will not be done abruptly and the member state has the flexibility to define the regions and their size on the basis of criteria of its choice.
could i have a reply from commissioner andor in relation to the points i made in terms of unemployment, social exclusion and the continuing problem that we have in northern ireland of low-level paramilitary violence?
this is not a very scientific way of doing it, but we take the names as they come in. they are then taken from the top of the list of each group, and we called mr chountis who has had his question. i apologise if that does not satisfy you. it is not a perfect system, but i have tried to make it clear by giving you the names of those likely to be called at 11 o’clock. it saves those who are not going to be called an hour’s wasted time. i apologise. it is not a perfect system.
member of the commission. − for 2012 and 2013, this €500 million budget already exists in the commission's budget. that is why the commission has been so insistent with the council to get this draft regulation adopted so that it can use this money. so, the budget is there. the political decision now remains in the council, with the support of parliament, and on this basis we can implement the programme for 2012 and 2013.
this is for commissioner cioloş. scottish tenant farmers are deeply concerned about the proposals to change from the historic-based payment system to the area-based payment system when they have to make the claim for entitlement in 2014. this is a similar question to mr kelly’s. you have introduced the reference year of 2011 to make sure that it is genuine tenant farmers who will be able to claim the entitlements, but there is still a great worry that many will lose their short-term tenancies before that date and it will be the landowner who makes the claim and not the tenants. have you thought about what further measures you can take to try and help protect tenants from being evicted before the registration day of 15 may 2014 for the new entitlements?
member of the commission. - mr lyon, as regards the right to aid, to financial support under the common agricultural policy, the principle is very clear: the beneficiary of this aid is the person who works the land. it could be the landlord if he's the one working the land, or it could be the tenant. so if a farmer can clearly demonstrate that he is the one who is working the land by means of documents, he will be entitled to the subsidy. in any case, for the first pillar, i.e. direct payments, it is clearly the farmer who is the beneficiary of these aids. that is why we have put this reference of 2011, that is, before the announcement of the legislative proposal, to avoid the speculation of a situation in which a landowner who leases land to farmers, if he is informed that there is a redefinition of this right to payment, takes the land from the farmers and registers himself as a farmer. the reference year is therefore earlier than the presentation of this legislative proposal. the member states will also have the means to check these documents and to ensure that the person applying for financial support is the farmer and not the owner.
that still does not clarify the point, because unless you are only going to give the new aid to exactly the same people who claimed it in 2011 – if that is what you are suggesting – then it begs the question of what happens to all the new entrants who clearly did not have a claim in 2011. i am not clear how you seek to make sure, firstly, that tenants are protected, and secondly, how new entrants or farmers who do not have a single farm payment can make claims for the new entitlements in 2014. there is a contradiction there.
member of the commission. - i explained to mr kelly earlier that we have the 2011 reference for the farmer who has payment entitlements and the 2014 reference for the agricultural area. this means that only farmers who are in the database in 2011 will be able to apply for financial support, but they will be able to do so with the agricultural area they have registered in 2014, because from 2011 to 2014 there may be changes. we are already giving member states the possibility of introducing areas which were not originally introduced as entitlement to support; so there may be farmers who, between 2011 and 2014, increase their acreage. for this reason, 2014 is the reference year for the area and 2011 is the reference year for the farmer, in order to avoid new 'speculative' farmers appearing in the meantime. however, between 2011 and 2014, member states will still be able to introduce new farmers but on the basis of clear justifications. with this double reference, 2011 for the farmer and 2014 for the area, we can be sure that there will be no speculation on the part of the farmers and that at the same time the actual area of 2014 will be taken into account.
member of the commission. - as regards the baltic sea, i think it is a bit of an exaggeration to say that agriculture is solely responsible. there is also industrial activity, but as far as agriculture is concerned, this is perhaps the only sector for which european financial support is already conditional, with the eco-conditionality measures, on certain requirements, including in terms of the use of chemical substances. so it is already in the legislation. the greening measures we are now proposing will also help to improve the situation, since by diversifying crops on the same parcel, for example, monoculture is avoided and thus the heavy use of chemicals in agricultural production technologies is also avoided. as regards the bureaucracy you mentioned for these greening measures, i can assure you that we have made an analysis to propose the measures which are the easiest to implement and the least bureaucratic. the three measures we have proposed for this part of greening, namely the maintenance of permanent grazing, the diversification of crops on a holding and this 7% ecological infrastructure on a holding, can be applied throughout the european union. the farmer does not need any additional documents as he will mention compliance with these measures at the same time as he submits his application for financial support and he will not need any control other than the one normally carried out on the holding in order to obtain the right to financial support. we have also chosen the measures which have the greatest overall impact at european level, if all farmers apply them, with the least bureaucracy.
member of the commission. - mrs hassi, this is a typical situation to which the agri-environmental measures of the rural development programme can be applied, measures which allow member states to deal with a specific issue in a region by encouraging farmers to adopt agricultural practices adapted to that specific situation. in this case, the baltic states or the countries bordering the baltic sea can very well encourage farmers, through agricultural practices which use less chemicals, to pay more attention to the specific situation of the soils there. i said that the greening measures now being proposed for direct payments throughout the european union are simple measures that can be applied everywhere. crop rotation, for example, or crop diversification, as proposed, would also enable farmers to reduce the use of chemicals and thus the amount of waste. but the coastal member states can deal with this specifically with the agri-environmental measures that are provided for in the rural development programme.
my question is to commissioner hahn. it is along the lines of the peace programme that was implemented in northern ireland, some of the events that have unfolded and the contribution it made towards consolidating peace in my constituency. with the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework on the future of the cohesion policy about to begin, can the commissioner tell me and the house that the commission will continue to press for a future peace iv package for northern ireland? i ask this question because i want to make it very clear that i have a suspicion at times that many in the commission believe that northern ireland is a done deal and is totally resolved. yes, northern ireland has come an awfully long way, but we still have a long way to go. i would be grateful for his answer on that.
member of the commission. - mr nicholson, please. firstly, i can give a warning, and secondly, i am happy to confirm that northern ireland has undergone a very wonderful development, but it is not yet complete. the commission therefore has a clear yes to the continuation of the peace programme. but as you know, it also requires the appropriate involvement of both ireland and the united kingdom. the indications i have received so far from both countries clearly indicate that both countries have an interest in continuing this programme, and so, of course, do we.
i welcome that and i would like to ask him – and perhaps push him a little here – to go further. while i will certainly be encouraging the two governments to make the application, will he also be encouraging the two governments to come forward with an application as well? can i take the opportunity to say to commissioner cioloş, – who probably thought i was going to ask him a question here today, but i am not – that i listened to his debate with mr lyon and on this problem of conacre and tenant farmers. commissioner, this is something which we really have to sit down around a table and solve. you have some idea of the problem, but i think we really have got to sit down and solve this properly.
that concludes question time.
madam president, i welcome the report, which recognises the different strategies needed from region to region across the eu to combat demographic change. we need to have a coordinated effect at eu, national and regional level, as we have in wales. the report sets out a number of recommendations, focusing on suggestions for structural policy reform, urban development, measures for families, the use of the esf to combat youth unemployment and, in particular, the sharing of best practice between the different regions and nations. wales, as a convergence region, welcomes the initiative.
madam president, the elemental cause of our discontents is easily stated: there is too much debt. too much personal debt, too much corporate debt and too much public debt. even i am not going to claim that this is wholly a crisis of the eurozone. it was also a crisis in latvia, a crisis in hungary and indeed a crisis in my own country, and the underlying cause is easily diagnosed: interest rates were kept too low for too long and this mistake was made equally by the bank of england, the european central bank and indeed the fed and the bank of japan. what is happening now is that there is a correction. the malinvestments of the decade of easy credit should be being rectified so that growth can begin again on a more sober and realistic basis, but here in europe – and indeed in the united kingdom – politicians and central bankers are furiously working the bellows in trying to re-inflate the bubble. it is not going to work; it is like trying to postpone a hangover by remaining drunk. you may defer the reckoning, but it will be all the worse when it comes.
madam president, the challenge stemming from the current demographic changes within the eu is one of the biggest we will face over the coming years. we must strive to develop policies which not only make the public aware of the benefits and opportunities inherent in demographic changes, but also enable older workers to fully access work and housing markets. i therefore welcome some elements of this report which recognise the unique benefits to the current demographics. in the uk, we have recently abolished the default retirement age, acknowledging, amongst other things, the benefits of an older workforce. however, there are a number of recommendations within this report which i cannot support, most particularly those recommendations which call for a common eu strategy on migration and the diversion of structural funds away from building economic capacity and towards special multi-generational housing projects and undefined ‘communal events’ to integrate immigrants into their local communities.
madam president, despite having voted against the first version of the canfin report in plenary and although the subsequent report has been revised after a number of trialogues, i still have a great number of reservations about the report, which is why i have abstained. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am concerned by the detail in the report and the ability to implement the proposal as it stands, particularly about the proposed ban on uncovered sovereign cds and the potential subsequent impact on the ability of member states in the eu to raise revenue through bond issuance. an opt-in, and not an opt-out, system for member states’ regulators would have been more equitable and added to the report’s credibility.
madam president, in the past two weeks we have witnessed a coup d’état: bloodless and genteel, but a coup d’état nonetheless. in italy as in greece, elected premiers have been toppled in favour of eurocrats – respectively, a former vice-president of the european central bank and a former european commissioner. they head what are called ‘national governments’, but the governments have been put together for the sole purpose of implementing a programme that would be rejected at a general election. they are called technocrats, but it is precisely their policies that created the problem in the first place. they presided over the debt; they decided to keep the euro going at the expense of the prosperity of the constituent nations; they – mr papademos in particular – were responsible for admitting countries that did not meet the debt criteria at the outset. now we see the true face of the european project. apparatchiks in brussels deal directly with apparatchiks in athens and rome. the people are cut out altogether and their elected representatives are sidelined. the lamps are going out all over europe.
madam president, short selling and credit default swaps are two of the principal methods of investing in, or hedging against, a fall in prices or a default of a bond. restrictions on the trading of sovereign debt, in particular when the underlying asset is not owned or borrowed by the investor, can be very controversial. we must ensure that while we bring about some protection from aggressive short selling in the markets, this must not be done at the risk of liquidity. any blanket ban on credit default swaps could have serious consequences on the ability of member states to raise revenue through issuing bonds. despite this report being brought closer into line with the position of my group, i still have a number of reservations, and these have come out in the detail and the general direction of the proposals.
madam president, as a shadow rapporteur on this report, i had a number of concerns. first of all was the lack of focus on the causes of the crisis. one of the things we are ignoring in this place is the role that governments themselves played in creating the crisis. look at the us government and the community reinvestment act which encouraged banks to lend to uncreditworthy customers, and at the levels of debt that governments incurred – and then they blamed the markets. at the same time, i also share some of the concerns about the cds and uncovered sovereign cds. however, my concerns over this report were that we actually missed the target. of course we should be tackling the issue of cds when a bank does a swap and suddenly bad debt is re-rated as good debt because the cds has been issued by an institution that itself has a good credit rating. but the most important thing that we have missed is that those organisations, those institutions that issue cds, should make sure that they have sufficient capital to meet their obligations when a default occurs. this has not occurred and we have missed the elephant in the room.
madam president, although this report is largely technical concerning the provision of detailed statistics, i was pleased to support it. crop statistics are essential for the management and evaluation of eu markets and the common agricultural policy. although the details in this report largely concern vines which – i have to accept – are not very prevalent in my member state, although they are a growing part of our agricultural scene, it is still important that all members of this house pay attention to the detail of these technical reports so that we do not have motions and reports going through that we are not clear about and of which we do not fully understand the implications. at this important time for the common agricultural policy, i believe that it is even more imperative that we pay attention to the detail.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order regarding your interpretation of the rules. in previous years when i requested to make an explanation of vote, it was deemed that it could only be called provided the member had made the request before that report itself came up on the screen, not the initiation of the explanation of votes session. now you are having a narrow interpretation that you have to submit the request before the whole explanation of votes session begins. can you have a consistent interpretation of this rule, because clearly it was intended that you could only apply before that particular report, not the whole thing starting after the ending of the voting session? each president interprets that rule differently as far as i can see. i agree, for that matter, that the way it is written in the rules is not clear either.
madam president, i take the opportunity to say that the freedom of movement of eu professionals is a very good thing, but i believe that in some ways, by going further than what is even permitted in the united states, we have, in the european union, allowed loopholes to emerge which allow for doctors for instance – and i am a retired one myself – who are not sufficiently professionally equipped to discharge their duties medically to practise in my country, the united kingdom. i strongly believe that all eu doctors registering in the united kingdom should be subject to linguistic and professional aptitude assessment before being given full registration. too many problems have arisen in recent years due to different medical practices and poor english skills, and patients have suffered as a consequence. this needs urgent review by the commission.
madam president, i believe in the single market and i believe in the free movement of people. these are the tools the european economy needs to return to growth. however, when looking at medical qualifications, the first priority must be the well-being of the patient. i am pleased that this report gives member states the responsibility for checking the ability of migrant doctors and nurses. doctors must be able to communicate adequately with their patients and colleagues. the new alert mechanism for doctors is also welcome. in the uk, the case of the german doctor who killed a patient in cambridge after making serious errors has raised concern about the eu mobility of doctors. the fact that he was allowed to continue practicing medicine in germany after being struck off in the uk is also troubling. i hope the earlier warning system will allow medical authorities in member states to better protect their citizens. i am in favour of movement for employment, but we must ensure that we protect our patients across europe first.
madam president, i have spoken before in this parliament on the case of my constituent, 70-year-old david gray, who was killed when a locum german doctor unlawfully administered 10 times the recommended dose of a pain-killing drug. on behalf of his sons, stuart and rory gray, i do so again today, to say that their father would still be alive if the mandatory blacklist system the european parliament calls for today had been in place back in 2008. i am also incensed that germany failed to extradite the doctor involved, despite the fact that an email dated 16 march 2009 to the cambridge constabulary clearly shows that the european arrest warrant was received before the doctor, daniel ubani, was finally judged to be incompetent in germany. his case should, under the existing law, have been heard in british courts. today, meps have called for a change to the law to clarify beyond doubt that language checks for foreign doctors are perfectly permissible, as well as requiring an alert system to ensure that doctors under disciplinary questioning in one eu country cannot escape penalty in every country. but i say, with the greatest respect to my german colleagues, that changing the law only works if every eu country respects the law that is passed.
madam president, i would also request speaking time on this item. i would like to congratulate my colleague on her report on the professional qualifications directive; this has been a very high profile issue recently in the uk. the report is particularly encouraging with its emphasis on the reduction of the number of regulated professions and its encouragement of online application procedures. the report will encourage the free movement of a growing number of highly skilled workers across the eu. within the report there is a specific mention of the healthcare sector. the protection of consumer and patient safety, as we have heard, is a vital objective in the context of the revision of this directive. thus i am delighted to see that special attention has been paid to the special status of healthcare professionals. there has been much debate on the issue of language barriers. i believe that they are not necessary in all fields of work, but again we must have a decree of flexibility and, for professions where they are vital, we need to acknowledge that and make sure that we carry that through.
madam president, i would also like to welcome parliament’s vote today in favour of the report by emma mcclarkin on mutual recognition of professional qualifications. in particular there has been great concern in scotland about the competence of european doctors working for the national health service. since the introduction of the 48-hour working week and the handing over to nhs 24 of all out-of-hours care, almost one in ten healthcare professionals in the uk have now trained outside the uk. while these doctors provide a vital service, patients must, of course, have peace of mind about their competence. this report takes an important step towards ensuring that a cross-border alert system will stop the so-called ‘dodgy’ doctors from moving from one country to another to continue practising when they have been accused or suspended in their own country for a question of malpractice. that will reassure patients that their doctors are qualified and not facing charges of misconduct in the countries they came from. the relationship between patient and doctor is important to recognise and respect. in this regard, use of language is vital, and that is why i am pleased that this report has identified the language issue as an area that does need further work. patients must feel comfortable with their doctor and health professional and understand the advice and treatment plan, wherever their doctor comes from. i do hope parliament can trust the commission to look into this report with the necessary attention to ensure the best quality of treatment across europe, through changes of legislation where necessary.
madam president, by voting in favour of the mcclarkin report, i have voted for simplification and the reduction of the number of regulated professions in the eu, which, importantly, will enhance the mobility of professionals whilst ensuring that the proper safeguards and checks are in place for them, particularly those who work in the healthcare sector. i believe that the report takes the right steps to protect and encourage professional workers seeking to work in another member state. however, we need at all times to ensure that language specificities, particularly with respect to patient safety, are workable in practice – a concern expressed by many of my patients in wales.
madam president, together with my ecr colleagues, i voted in favour of this consumer policy report as it clearly sets out the need for a proactive policy which places consumers at the heart of the single market. encouragingly, the report draws from statistics from the consumer scoreboard and has taken the recently published top 20 main citizens’ and business concerns regarding the single market into full account. the report calls for the commission to integrate initiatives across all its responsible services, which will ensure proper implementation and enforcement of existing legislation. we now, on behalf of our citizens, need to deliver these policies.
madam president, i was happy to support this report, particularly the emphasis on requesting the commission to improve the criteria for carrying out more impact assessments and to review eu regulations which have a direct effect on consumer policy. it is high time consumers reclaimed a key position in the discussions around the single market. e-commerce is increasing and brings huge opportunities for consumers, but it also increases all of our vulnerability. so i welcome particularly the recognition of the e-commerce issue in this report and the promise to go forward with further work in that area.
madam president, as shadow rapporteur on the econ committee opinion, i have supported the creutzmann report on online gambling as it acknowledges that a uniform european legislative act would not be appropriate to deal with the whole of the gambling sector. however, it recognises where there would be clear added value from a coordinated european approach, in addition to additional national regulation in certain areas, such as in administrative cooperation. given the cross-border nature of online gambling services, this seems appropriate. it also goes some way towards enhancing protection for vulnerable consumers, such as those adopted in the common advertising standards, and developing a blacklist of illegal gambling providers. this is a step in the right direction that acknowledges the cross-border nature of this sector.
madam president, i welcome this discussion on online gambling. what is of most concern when one considers online gambling is the increasing ease of access to online gambling sources via the internet, interactive tv and apps for smartphones. gambling seems to be everywhere. you cannot escape advertising for betting in newspapers and television, at sporting occasions, and it now seems that there is very much a cultural acceptance of this as a fun thing to do. sadly, while some people may get enjoyment, there are for many the miseries that online gambling brings. in september 2008, a report by the gambling commission in the united kingdom showed that between 10% and 14% of young people are at risk of developing gambling problems, while between 5% and 7% were said to be problem gamblers. the studies examined by the commission categorised those young people as under the age of 18. this is a shocking statistic, but not surprising.
madam president, i am happy to support this report tackling the issues around online gambling. it is an issue with which i am very familiar, not because i am much of a gambler myself, but because in my own constituency – in gibraltar in fact – we have an exemplar of how regulation can work well. for those concerned about the application of consumer protection, i can do no better than to advise them to visit the rock and its online gambling industry. the advanced use of computer-based algorithms to monitor activity both from the point of view of gambler behaviour and from the point of view of detecting large-scale fraud is truly impressive. this report calls for much which is already in place there. you do not need to re-invent the wheel; just have a look at how it can be done.
madam president, as we are all aware, the honeybee population has seen a stark decline these past few years, which subsequently could have a devastating effect on europe’s ability to produce crops that require pollination. a number of factors have been attributed to this decline, and welsh beekeepers – although they themselves are increasing in number – are concerned about their bee population’s long-term survival. indeed, such is the revival of beekeeping in the uk that even the london stock exchange now boasts beehives on its london city roof. the tabajdi report offers a balanced view of reasons for honeybee mortality and rightly calls for more research funding to be made available from the fp8 programme to focus on bee disease prevention and to find possible solutions. i hope researchers look globally for case studies and do not begin from a prejudiced viewpoint with respect to certain pesticides and genetic technologies. independent research needs to be just that: independent and without bias.
madam president, whilst it is true that in general the bee population is declining, it is also equally true that their importance within agriculture is undervalued by many. without bees, many crops would fail and in northern ireland we are particularly privileged to have a very good product in the armagh bramley apple. these orchards are, of course, especially reliant on bees for pollination, and on a recent visit to some orchard owners they expressed grave concern over the bee population. i agree that funding should be made available to research the disease and monitor bee populations across europe. however, i would plea for a balanced view of the decline of the bee population; we must not use agriculture as a scapegoat for this, but actually investigate ways of improving the bee population and the disease and parasites that affect it.
madam president, i am happy to support the agriculture committee’s report on honeybee health. i was, in fact, the person who drew up the environment committee’s opinion and was not able to vote for it because it was highjacked by non-scientifically-validated concerns about pesticides, which were knee-jerk and disproportionate. i regret that this also found its way into an alternative resolution, which i am pleased was rejected by this plenary. as we move into a world containing our seven billionth citizen, it is more and more important that we make sure that agricultural production and productivity move forward. i welcome the commission’s extra resource to member states. i very much welcome the setting up of the reference laboratory in france. i would recommend all members visit or at least have a look at the work that they are doing. we need to do far more to develop veterinary medicines to tackle the effect of the varroa virus and parasites, and we need to stick with our programme on plant protection, where we have regulation which is coming into force.
madam president, in my opinion the report on the reform of eu state aid rules on services of general economic interest is of concern as it extends the definition of social services of general interest, which could be to the detriment of competition across the whole of the eu single market. the value-creating potential of the private sector will not be fully realised as long as the public sector still has unfair competitive advantages applied to it. the privileges enjoyed by the public sector therefore have a negative impact on the eu’s economic strength as a whole, and should be terminated immediately. failure to come to this conclusion is why i have voted against this report.
madam president, i voted against this report because it does far too little to break up the cosy cushion of privilege often enjoyed across europe by the public sector. far more work needs to be done in this area. my constituents in the south west of england believe that there is an unfair application of state aid rules and this is a major factor in undermining their confidence in, and support for, the single market. this failure of confidence in the functioning of the single market then permeates through to discontent with the european union as a whole. i do not believe that my constituents are particularly unique in this, so i do believe that this is an area that should have far more attention from this parliament in order to increase confidence in the work that this parliament does. i regret that this report does not go far enough, and i look forward to more action on this area in the future.
madam president, i voted against this report because it will be completely ineffectual in doing what it purports to do. the way to fight poverty is to provide solid, reliable and flexible employment. this can only flow from strong and growing economies. this is where we should be placing our emphasis. youth unemployment is a scandal and it will not be resolved by the commission interfering in member states’ actions on minimum wages or by any of the other proposals in this report. micro-management from brussels has never solved anything. this report has lots of wishful thinking and worthy words, and lets down the people it purports to support.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal in which, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission do not include any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and whereas, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts together with those amendments, the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. − the accession to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea is a long-standing issue followed up by the eu and by the parliament. the convention itself dates back to 1974 with the safety of passenger ships and passenger rights lying at its heart. it was, however, considered that the convention regulated insufficiently a number of substantive issues including the nature and extent of the carriers’ liability and minimum requirements on insurance. under the aegis of the international maritime organisation (imo), the protocol, which was adopted on 1 november 2002, amended the athens convention in a way that satisfied key elements such as liability in case of fault or neglect by the carrier, compulsory insurance and the right to make claims directly against the insurer. the compensation of terrorism-related damages is addressed by imo guidelines and a reservation to the protocol. considering that most of the desirable elements were then covered by the protocol, the commission proposed in 2003 that the european community become a contracting party to the protocol of 2002 and that the member states should do likewise. negotiations within the council on the conclusion were suspended, however, and were only resumed in december 2007.
in writing. − i voted for this technical report on the legal elements of the eu’s accession to the athens protocol in order that the protocol can be applied by 2013 at the latest.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. air services between the european union and jordan presently operate on the basis of bilateral agreements between individual member states and jordan. these bilateral agreements were brought into line with eu law by the conclusion of a horizontal aviation agreement with jordan in 2008. the commission recently negotiated a comprehensive agreement that is much more ambitious in its scope and replaces all of the bilateral agreements by creating a euro-mediterranean aviation area between the eu and jordan. the agreement establishes uniform standards for air carriers in all 27 member states and allows them to benefit regardless of their national affiliation. accordingly, eu-based air carriers will be able to operate services between any location in the eu and jordan, something that was until now conditional upon, among other things, the existence of a bilateral agreement between the member state concerned and jordan.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement. this agreement is an international one establishing relations in the field of aviation between the eu and its 27 member states and georgia. its purpose is the establishment of an eu/georgia common aviation area. the existing bilateral agreements on air traffic services between the two sides are to be superseded by the new agreement. the agreement is being concluded as part of the eu neighbourhood policy, one of the aims of which is to establish a common aviation area between the eu and its neighbours.
in writing. − spain has requested the temporary suspension of the common customs tariff duties on certain industrial products into the canary islands, so as to strengthen the competitive position of the local economic operators and stabilise employment. in order to ensure that the goods imported, be they raw materials, do not distort competition, they will be subject to end-use controls ensuring their use by local companies on the islands. regarding capital goods, they will have to be used by local companies on the islands for a period of at least two years before they can be sold freely to companies situated in other parts of the union. moreover, raw materials, parts and components will have to be used for industrial transformation and maintenance in the canary islands in order to benefit from the duty suspension. these specific measures to stimulate economic activity, and stabilise employment over the medium term may be seen to fit well with the european economic recovery plan. in view of the above, and the necessity to take all measures likely to assist economic recovery, i support this proposal be adopted without amendment.
in writing. − i am opposed to trade tariffs, and this request for suspension of the common customs tariffs in order to help producers in the canary islands proves that they are bad for business. however, i cannot support this request. if a state wishes to be in the eu, then it should accept that it will be subject to the same damaging legislation as everybody else. why should the producers of the canary islands be exempt from the taxes that are crippling businesses in my country? lift the tariffs completely, not selectively.
in writing. − i am on record as promoting the development of nuclear fusion as a means of providing adequate electricity supplies. universities and commercial operators may need support from national governments but not from the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and, in particular, to amend it to say ‘the design and implementation of the framework programme (2012 – 2013) should be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust following the recommendations of the european parliament in its report on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes.’
in writing. − this report quite rightly emphasises the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity in relation to any eu proposals relating to insolvency. this is particularly necessary within the uk, where the law on insolvency is fundamentally different in scotland and the other countries making up the current member state.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls for, in the case of insolvency proceedings, a four-fold structure of future legislative initiatives: (1) harmonisation where possible, (2) revision of the insolvency regulation where it will remain – in addition to harmonisation – relevant and where the practice has proven that improvement can be made, (3) improvement of the cooperation of liquidators and cooperation in general on administrative level in cases where enterprises that are part of a group of companies become insolvent and (4) creation of an eu registry for insolvency cases.
in writing. − this report highlights the need for adequate provision of affordable housing. important steps towards this end have been made in my own country where the scottish government and the scottish futures trust are working with local authorities to implement the national housing trust initiative. this initiative is rectifying years of neglect in this area by successive unionist governments.
in writing. − demographic change in the eu is a fact and handling it constitutes one of the core tasks for the future. europe’s population is ageing: it has the oldest population and the lowest population growth rate in the world. in most member states, the birth rate is below the replacement level of 2.1 children per woman (and continues to fall in some cases), while life expectancy is rising. there is a 50% probability that a girl born in germany in 2010 will reach the age of 100. demographic change is therefore rightly considered to be the major trend of the 21st century, as it will drastically change the political, social, societal and economic situation in europe. this report makes some sensible suggestions for handling demographic change and i supported it.
in writing. − the eu approach is generally unhelpful in these matters. a common eu migration policy would make it more difficult for the british government to control our borders and would lead to an increase in the number of illegal immigrants who enter the uk via our european neighbours (many of whom have porous and weak external borders). our national security, prosperity and cohesion are my prime concerns. i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it sends a clear message on the changes parliament would like the commission to implement with regard to combating the consequences of demographic change for cohesion policy. whilst recognising that all member states are different, this report identifies a number of areas where changes to the framework of structural funds could recognise specific demographic changes, for example by providing social infrastructure for an ageing population, urban development plans and strategies for the elderly, children and family-friendly towns and social inclusion and integration of migrants.
in writing. − i welcome this important report. at a time when the european and global economy is in crisis, naked credit default swaps only compound matters. it is right that the eu takes steps to reign in the damaging actions of the spivs and speculators.
in writing. − i welcome this legislation. the ban on naked credit default swaps on sovereign debt is a great achievement for parliament. the overall transparency of the financial markets will be improved and coordination at european level and the role of the european securities market authority (esma) will also be enhanced.
in writing. − i supported today's report to curb short selling and trading in credit default swaps. the regulation is key to tackling the financial crisis dominating europe at the moment, and i welcome the move to ban ‘naked’ credit default swaps. speculators should not be able to gamble with debt issued by governments; short selling and cds trading fuel volatility in the markets which is something europe cannot risk. i also welcome the move to improve reporting requirements. national and european supervisors will now be alerted to potential risks at an earlier stage and will therefore be able to carry out their work more effectively. i am pleased that esma, the eu’s financial watchdog, will also be involved in restricting short selling and hope that new powers for esma will allow better financial coordination across member states. i am disappointed that uk conservative meps could not support this report, showing once again their support for the elite of the city of london.
in writing. − i am pleased to have voted for new controls on what are some of the riskiest aspects of the financial sector. the financial crisis was, in no small part, the result of unseen risks building up across the financial industry; to make the system safer and reduce the likelihood of future crises, we need to tackle those risks. this is doubly important for markets in sovereign debt. we have all seen the effects that a sovereign debt crisis can have on people and their livelihoods in greece and elsewhere in the eurozone. the rules approved by parliament today therefore target ‘naked’ short selling, as well as ‘uncovered’ credit default swaps (cds) for sovereign debt, which have allowed traders to speculate on a country’s debt without even owning it. they have the potential to be extremely damaging by encouraging speculation and driving down asset prices at the worst possible time. putting an end to these activities is an important step in preventing another greek-style crisis.
in writing. − i voted against this report. this is another attempt to extend statistical harmonisation and create a pan-european database in order to dictate what kind of crops may be seeded and harvested in future in the eu. such decisions should be taken by member state governments based upon domestic research, economic need, climate and exportation.
in writing. − i welcome the commission proposal, the aim of which is to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops in line with current user and market requirements. the rapporteur stresses the objective of achieving simplification and recognises the efforts made by the commission to reduce the administrative burden on respondents and ensure that statistical data on permanent crops provide a reliable basis for taking judicious decisions in relation to production and the european market.
in writing. − i voted for this legislative package which aims to continue supporting r&d actions in the nuclear field carried out under the 7th euratom framework programme.
in writing. − i voted for this report on participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community which aims to continue supporting r&d actions in this field.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is another attempt to create a one-size-fits-all european system, this time in education. this is another step towards reinforced eu strategy in the single market, which will limit national determination of what proof is required from those who claim to be highly skilled workers to corroborate their professional abilities. we cannot ignore the fact that there is a huge gap between professional standards and educational requirements in poor countries of europe, which struggle to compete with the most advanced member states such as great britain. i am against the ep proposal of setting up a voluntary professional passport linked to an electronic exchange system connecting public authorities across the eu, known as the internal market information system. however i do agree that a lot of suspended or struck-off professionals, who leave their own countries to work in other member states, pose an enormous danger, but i believe that national state authorities should determine the recognition of qualifications of those who are coming from abroad to work.
in writing. − this is not a matter that should be within the power of the eu, but within that of sovereign nation-states, working under international agreements.
in writing. − the freedom of movement for workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu and the mutual recognition of professional qualifications is an important tool in facilitating that movement. different countries have differing education and training regimes, however, and i welcome the fact that this report recognises that reality.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission and the member states to further encourage mobility among professionals; argues that the relatively low numbers of mobile professionals is cause for concern and suggests that strategies be devised to tackle this problem; and underlines the result of the recent eurobarometer survey according to which more than 50% of young people in europe are willing or keen to work abroad.
in writing. − for many years i have supported the strong need for recognition of professional qualifications across the eu. the problems alluded to in terms of some of the linguistic differences and professional aptitude are partly true, but they are also relevant in all aspects of trade and employment services across borders, eu and non-eu. in the south-east of england i have been proud to assist constituents – some of whom have been doctors and other professionals – to gain recognition in other member states. i would, however, support additional measures to ensure that checks can be made where necessary and with respect for the spirit of this law.
in writing. − the measures included in this report make the recognition of professional qualifications easier for eu citizens wanting to work in other member states. importantly, this report also calls for the commission to look at implementing an alert mechanism to let all member states know when a professional has been struck off in another country. this is particularly important for medical professionals and will continue to be a priority for labour members when the legislative proposals are discussed.
in writing. − recognition and assessment of professional qualifications when professionals move across borders is essential. i have voted for this report, which looks at the way the 2005 directive on professional qualifications has been implemented, because there is room to improve confidence in the recognition system whilst maintaining support for the principle of mutual recognition. there has been a lot of attention given to the way the directive has been implemented in the uk's national health service, particularly as regards language skills for doctors. the nhs must be able to hire the doctors and other staff it needs to provide a quality service, and this often means that they must come from outside the uk. at the same time, doctors must of course be able to understand their patients, and there can be no exceptions to this rule. despite media reports, the directive does not prevent member states from imposing language requirements on doctors – in fact it states that they should have all the necessary language skills to do their job. nevertheless, there is clearly scope to make the rules stronger. when the commission comes to review this directive later this year, it must take parliament’s report into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which speaks about consumer empowerment. unfortunately at the moment five million scottish consumers are not fully empowered because consumer policy remains a competence of a uk government which scotland did not vote for. the scottish government is, however, committed to a referendum which will give the people of scotland the opportunity to fully empower themselves by choosing independence, the normal status of nations in europe.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which notes that the intended beneficiaries of competition policy and of financial services regulation include consumers and emphasises the need to take into account the particular needs of vulnerable consumers while also recalling that the economic crisis has generated particular hardship for consumers.
in writing. − i voted against this report because the so-called added value to be gained by an eu-wide coordinated approach to illegal gambling by protecting children and vulnerable adults from addictions, is actually an attempt to give the eu more competences. if we take into account that the commission is called to examine the possibility of blocking financial transactions between banks or credit card issuers and blacklisted gambling providers, we can find a situation where the eu is controlling another area of the banking sector, notably electronic payment. i cannot agree with another call to set up common standards or introduce another framework decision on a european code of conduct which will not solve any problems for those afflicted with a gambling addiction.
in writing. − whilst, as this report acknowledges, different countries have different gambling traditions which must be respected, the digital age means that gambling can increasingly have a cross-border nature. it is appropriate that the eu legislates in this area and i believe this report strikes the correct balance.
in writing. − i welcome this report on online gambling which calls for strong measures to protect vulnerable consumers (especially minors) and strong instruments to tackle illegal gambling and related problems.
in writing. − i welcome today’s report calling on the commission to look at ways in which member states can work together to protect internet consumers and to fight illegal online gambling. although rules on online gambling are made by member states, i believe it is important to work together to regulate this cross-border issue. the commission should listen seriously to calls from parliament to look at the possibility of blocking financial transactions between banks or credit card issuers and blacklisted gambling providers. with 10 % of all gambling in europe taking place online, we need to make sure children and vulnerable adults are protected. i fully support suggestions made by the rapporteur to look at a number of different controls, for example age verification and restrictions for electronic payments, which would help protect consumers.
in writing. − as much as i am concerned about problems within the beekeeping sector, i am absolutely against the eu using this sensitive situation in the agriculture sector to take over the power to decide about the honey industry. the commission is willing, by using this resolution, to extend the harmonisation of legislation in agriculture matters and add regulatory burden where there is no such need. this is yet another attempt to take over member states’ competences by using an important issue such as the current health problems in the bee population.
in writing. − the exact reasons of the recent increases in bee mortality are still unclear. there are several obstacles stalling the development of novel bee-health products. the market in such products is relatively small compared to the other livestock sectors, and the return on investments is low. therefore producers of veterinary products are not interested in the development of new bee-health medicines. moreover, the current regulation of the mrl system does not ensure the proper protection of intellectual property rights, discouraging innovative producers from the development. the commission should deal with this problem in a balanced new regulation. besides developing new medicines prevention measures should be further examined, bee-breeding programmes and gene conservation concentrating on disease and pest tolerance should be supported on national level.
in writing. − i have voted today for the tabajdi report, which provides a comprehensive package to support honeybees in europe, and i would like to thank mr tabajdi for all his hard work on this. however, i have also been active in highlighting the plight of europe’s honeybees and the harmful effects posed to them by neonicotinoids, and there has been strong support for this issue among my constituents in the south east of england. earlier this year over a hundred members of this house signed a written declaration calling for their use to be banned, until more conclusive research becomes available. i note that this call was also in the rapporteur’s original text for this report and, like him, i was very disappointed that it was not in the final text. therefore, in keeping with the essence of the written declaration, i supported the alternative motion put forward today, as it called for an eu ban on neonicotinoids. i congratulate the rapporteur again on his hard work and hope that, after the passage of this report, the commission will consider implementing an eu ban, along with the measures called for here today.
in writing. − this report ‘asserts emphatically that public services must be of high quality and accessible to all sections of the population’. in parts of the uk this assertion is increasingly being challenged by a right-wing unionist government intent on selling off key services, thereby pricing many people out of the market. fortunately the people of scotland are shielded from many of these policies by a scottish national party government committed to a vibrant public sector.
in writing. − i support this resolution seeking to protect services of general economic interest from state aid rules. services of general interest are not only crucial to individuals but are also tremendously important to the well-being of society as a whole. such services are highly diverse, and national, regional and local authorities within the eu have discretion in determining what constitutes a service of general interest, i.e. which services ought to be offered in the interests of the general public. however, all such services have this much in common: they are services regarded by the state or state authorities as particularly important to all members of the public but they cannot be provided, or cannot be provided adequately, without state intervention. the state intervenes to ensure that all members of the public have access to these services and/or that they are provided for all members of the public at an affordable price and a high level of quality.
in writing. − state aid rules are often controversial and cause a great deal of uncertainty, particularly for governments and public bodies. the case of the royal mail in the uk is just one example of how a lack of confidence in these rules can prolong and complicate decision-making, to the detriment of employees, taxpayers and the service-using public. i am therefore pleased to have voted for this report, which calls for a firm legal framework for public ‘services of general economic interest (sgei)’, which include social services, health services and public transport. the european commission promised action to strengthen the position of these services, and we hope to see this when new state aid rules are proposed this year.
in writing. − i voted against the report, because as much as i believe that people in need should receive help and that social exclusion and poverty must be eradicated, it should be solely the onus of nation states to decide how they want to help their citizens. the creation of umbrella funding for social protection in europe, alongside the definition of minimum income should instead be determined on a national level and based upon the idiosyncratic circumstances within a country. the imposition of taxation upon member states must never be a competence of the european union.
in writing. − this report states that 116 million people in the eu are at risk from poverty, a truly shocking figure. too many people in my own country are living in dire conditions, and scotland remains one of the few places in the world to have discovered oil yet got poorer. years, decades and centuries of london rule have brought about this situation, and only with scottish independence will we be able to build the fair and just society that our nation should take for granted.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution and in particular the paragraph dealing with children that ‘calls for the fight against child poverty to focus on prevention through the provision of equal access to high-quality early childhood education and childcare services, in order to prevent children from starting school life with multiple disadvantages, and to other facilities for children (such as activity centres available during term-time and holiday periods, and extracurricular cultural and sports activities), ensuring that the network of such services and centres covers all areas adequately; calls for financial support for services having proven their worth and for the systematic integration of policies designed to support poor families into all relevant areas of activity, combining a universal approach with targeted measures for the most vulnerable families, in particular the families of children with disabilities, single-parent families and families with large numbers of children; calls for the parent-child relationship to be given particular attention in programmes to combat poverty and social exclusion, so as to prevent children being placed in care as a consequence of severe poverty’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as one of the flagship initiatives in europe 2020, the european platform against poverty and social exclusion increases the awareness of this important issue. poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years; with more than 80 million people in europe at risk of poverty, the eu must act to help the most deprived citizens. the financial crisis has put increased pressure on vulnerable groups and more must be done to help them become an important focus of european integration. i support the report, which adopts an improved budget for the fight against poverty with the important objective of decreasing the number of poor people in the eu by 20 million by 2020. in addition, it is very important that eu funds are better used to address these issues, as part of an integrated strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − my home constituency of london has some of the highest rates of poverty and inequality in the united kingdom, nevertheless i voted against this report on poverty and social exclusion. i voted against the report, not because i think that we should not be confronting poverty, but because of the naïve proposals put forward in this report. the only way to tackle poverty is by improving the economy, by cutting red tape and regulation to create the conditions to boost businesses and create jobs. plans for a legally-enforceable europe-wide minimum income are more likely to hurt employment than to help it. and do we really think that we can solve poverty through a series of eu-wide ‘poverty awareness seminars’? i do not believe that the eu should be pressing governments to spend more money on state benefits at a time of economic austerity. i do not believe that the eu should ever be pressing governments to spend more money on state benefits! we need realistic proposals to combat poverty and, most significantly, these should be generated at the national level. the last thing we need is another unwanted, unserviceable decree from brussels which fails to help those most in need.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this work programme brings the commission and parliament back to centre stage. we have had too much recently of panicky and chaotic summitry from our prime ministers that have destroyed not only market confidence, but also democratic confidence in the integration process. it is crucial to show that, despite this turmoil, we are able to proceed with a serious legislative programme crafted in the common interests of all the member states. this must be the year of fiscal solidarity. it must also be the year where we see the clear first fruits from the treaty of lisbon in terms of a common foreign and security policy. it will be the year when we have to change direction from seeking multilateral agreements on trade to a series of bilateral agreements with our principal trading partners. there is also some important business from previous years which is far from complete. if i could just mention one, it is the european union’s accession to the echr (european convention on human rights), which is essential to provide a uniform standard of protection of fundamental rights across the continent. this accession process has now stalled and i hope that president barroso will do all he can to see that it is brought to a successful conclusion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, unlike some of my colleagues, i welcome this proposal because i see that it is much more focused than we have seen before on the real priorities that we have to tackle, which are to support economic growth and job creation. this is absolutely the most critical thing we have to do. mr duff referred a bit earlier to us coming back to centre stage after all the summitry. i just want to remind him that, on 23 october, at the first summit of that week, the communiqué had as its two top priorities the priorities of this commission work programme – to complete the 12 levers of growth in the single market act. my group certainly supports that very strongly and, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i clearly support that as well. but the second priority for the council – and indeed we see this in this commission work programme – is to create the digital single market at the same time and keep that investment going. the third priority in the 23 october summit was to tackle the problem of regulatory burden and to go for smart regulation, which i also see is in here. i want to thank the commission president for putting that in here, because those targets have been largely invisible up to now. as i have said to him, we want a higher profile for those policies to help business move forward. he is quite right to point out that we have made progress there. what we do not want in this proposal are actions that would actively undermine economic growth. by his own impact assessment, the one proposal in here that will do more damage to economic growth than anything else – in his impact assessment a minimum of cutting economic growth by half a percent of gdp across europe – is the financial transaction tax. what are we doing now if the priority is about economic growth in putting this in your work programme? i just conclude by what it said in the council conclusions. the european union needs to support all actions on economic growth and job creation. the single market underpins that, and that is a policy all of us must share and all of us must move forward. we absolutely cannot have divisions in the way that we plan to move forward in developing the single market.
mr president, the lisbon strategy’s aim in 2000 was to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. as we know, it failed. and now looking at this proposal for a work programme in the eu, it will continue to be a failure. according to eurostat, industrial output in the eu fell by 19% during the economic crisis, in comparison to 17% in the us. downturn in industrial output in the eurozone has been worse than the eu 27 as a whole, suggesting that the euro is a burden to recovery. even the eu’s own figures show that more job growth is created outside the eurozone than in, and yet unelected president barroso says the uk is obliged to join the euro. no thank you very much. the uk needs to divorce itself from this coven of failure and despair, and to instigate a free trade agreement with europe and the world. let us be gone and plague you no more. for the sake of my country, be gone with your damaging regulations. be gone with your harmful harmonisation. be gone with your destructive laws. be gone with your affronts to our democracy. be gone with your begging bowls. plague us no more.
mr president, i would like to address mr barroso. you always tell the same story which is more of the same: more europe, not less europe. albert einstein’s definition of insanity was to keep on doing the same thing over and over again and expect a different result. you propose yet more swathes of legislation and yet more power to the eu. you have previously said that the eu must assume economic and financial fiscal governance of the member states. where has all this centralisation of power actually got you? the eu underperforms economically with the rest of the world, mainly because of the burden of job-destroying and prosperity-restricting legislation. the crises in greece and italy have been in part caused by their membership of the european single currency. instead of organising an orderly exit, they have had to sacrifice democratic government and have it replaced by rule by economists and technocrats. you propose yet more of the same thing and expect different results. one does not have to be albert einstein to predict the result.
mr president, if i could offer the commission one piece of advice as it decides upon next year’s work programme, it would be to stop wasting time discussing a financial transaction tax and instead to concentrate on making the eu more competitive. the united kingdom has made clear that it will veto the ftt. if the commission knows that it can get around the veto with a clever legal manoeuvre regarding the legal basis of such attacks, then let us hear about it. but if, as i suspect, the commission knows that it cannot, why does it waste time with this posturing? is it because attacking the city of london wins some cheap popularity on the benches opposite? or, is it in fact because the commission has so little else to offer? unemployment in europe is high and rising. instead of proposing new regulation you should be repealing it. you should help our businesses create jobs. the commission should start by scrapping the working time directive. this bureaucratic law costs jobs. i urge you to repeal it, and let our citizens decide what hours they work.
mr president, in cafés and bars across europe the talk is about jobs. if we do not create jobs, people will regard the european level of decision-making as simply irrelevant – and they would be right. we have to deal with the deep, corrosive fear of unemployment and insecurity. otherwise, democracy itself will be at risk. so i welcome the emphasis from the commission on growth in the single market, and i support the comments made by malcolm harbour, but i did want to hear more specific detail, especially for small businesses. in 2012 will we get concrete measures to free small businesses from the burden of regulation? will there be a small business impact assessment for every piece of new legislation? will the action plan on access to finance focus on the particular difficulties faced by smes, for example in relation to venture capital and a second chance after bankruptcy? i welcome the commission’s determination to get an early agreement on the energy efficiency directive. this will boost employment directly by stimulating the construction and services industries. it will also put money back into people’s pockets so that they can spend more of their cash in the local economy instead of simply burning it. the new innovative renewable technologies offer the greatest potential of all for creating jobs. i hope that in 2012 the commission will give these industries the investment stability that they are looking for beyond 2020 targets. finally, on a separate point, please can somebody explain to the eurosceptics that, if you are in a free trade agreement outside the eu, you simply accept european legislation as it is presented to you? ask norway.
mr president, it is quite clear, as we go through this crucial period, that today we have had presented to us only a very bare sketch plan for 2012. europe is deeply wounded and limping; the very social fabric is tearing apart. the pressures in our nation states are there for all to see, and our citizens are beginning to turn, increasingly, to the extremes. germany provided us with a very stark reminder just yesterday. are we to follow suit, and follow a policy of pulling up the drawbridge between europe and the world? president barroso argues against doing so. he says there are opportunities globally, yet when he speaks about those opportunities and bilateral agreements he makes no mention at all of the most advanced of those negotiations, on the eu-india free trade agreement. does he not mention it because he knows it is ‘locked’? it is an agreement which requires political pragmatism; it needs him to go forth and deliver that, yet there is no mention of it. today that agreement has become a test case to demonstrate the future way in which we are to progress. jobs, growth and confidence are not going to be delivered by the financial transactions tax or criminal law proposals, but by going ahead and being brave on behalf of europe and reaching out to the world. i do not see that in this action plan.
mr president, global financial markets are in chaos, pensioners are worried about their financial security and companies are too nervous to invest in the eu. commissioner šemeta was therefore right when he said that growth prospects are slowing down and public finances, and europe’s social economic models, are at risk. this is why we should have serious doubts about his proposal to introduce a policy which, it is estimated, could cost the eu 0.5% of gdp. now is not the time to put our fragile european economy at risk by introducing an eu financial transaction tax (ftt). it may be politically popular for the commissioner to claim this move is punishing the banks, but in reality the effects of an eu ftt would resonate through the entire economy. taxing financial transactions does not just affect banks. it would have a material effect on pension funds, other long-term investors and businesses, all of whom we should be encouraging to invest in the eu; we should not be putting up barriers to make it even more difficult for them. introducing knee-jerk legislation is one of the worst possible things we could do to the eu economy in these troubled times. growth in a single market, not tax, needs to be our focus.
mr president, the resolution talks of restoring growth for jobs as though that might be a realisable aim with current policies. are we really going to see economic growth, or an increase in the proportion of the working population that is employed, with current eu policies? the infatuation with globalism, and with continued and ever greater access of emerging economies to the markets of europe, will continue to destroy industries and jobs. the eu’s porous external borders and open-door asylum policies, aggravated by the schengen agreement and, in the uk, theresa may’s open-borders policies, have made our home-grown unskilled workers almost unemployable. the common currency with its single external value and its common interest rate has condemned the countries for which that value is too high to stagnation and unemployment. the resolution uses the eu’s climate change policies in the same sentence as competition as though they were compatible. since when has an imposition of greater costs on industry and commerce enhanced competition?
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, roimh na hidirbheartaíochtaí in durban, is gá don ae cur in iúl go mbeimid geallta don dara tréimhse gealltanais do phrótacal kyoto. is gá dó a bheith ina dara gealltanas láidir, ina spriocanna agus ina leagan dleathach araon. is léir gurb í an aidhm ná réiteach uaillmhianach domhanda. is féidir leis an ae cuidiú leis sin a bhaint amach agus ceannaireacht á léiriú beag beann ar sheasamh daoine eile. in durban, is gá dúinn an bhearna ghigeathona atá ann a dhruidim idir na leibhéil uaillmhéine faoi láthair agus iad siúd atá riachtanach de réir na heolaíochta. beidh sé ríthábhachtach chomh maith maoiniú aeráide a bheith ann i dtíortha i mbéal forbartha. mar aon le dul i ngleic leis an gceist mhór pholaitiúl faoin gcreatlach don bhealach chun tosaigh, is gá do na hidirbheartaíochtaí in durban céimeanna cinnte a thabhairt chun comhaontaithe cancún a chur i bhfeidhm. maidir le ceist mhaoinithe, is gá don chruinniú mullaigh in durban bealach don scálú suas de mhaoiniú aeráide a sholáthar don tréimhse 2013-2020 agus maoiniú fadtéarmach cuí a sholáthar chun tacú le todhchaí ísealcharbóin do thíortha i mbéal forbartha sa dóigh nach dtéann siadsan síos an cabhsa forbartha salaí. agus chomh maith leis sin, cuidiú leis na tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha déileáil leis an damáiste atá déanta cheana féin.
madam president, the resolution we are going to approve tomorrow urges the parties to ensure the conclusion of a comprehensive, international, fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement but, as has already been said, that is not going to happen. a triumph of hope over reality. and that is a pity because global warming emissions rose by 6% last year. the barclay study, funded by arch-climate change sceptics, has just concluded that in practice the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were right all along and temperatures are indeed growing as predicted. but just when we need action, we are going to get kyoto ii, which is going to be weaker than kyoto i, and 85% of the world’s emissions are not going to be covered by it. it is hard to justify the way in which the un process has worked, despite the incremental gains that have been made. global warming is being forced ahead by population growth and demand for energy by all those extra people: 200 000 extra people on the planet every day. it is clear that the nations of the world do not care very much about the more vulnerable ones, about protecting those at most risk from climate change, or indeed about passing on the costs of dealing with climate change to future generations, but maybe self-interest will start to prevail. we look at the predictions of the international energy agency, of oil prices within five years going up to usd 150 a barrel as a standard. that, i think, is double what the commission was predicting when it carried out impact assessments for the climate change package just a few years ago. perhaps also it will be driven by the self-interest of fear: fear of being left behind. no country is changing its energy mix faster than china; no country is trying to move away from coal, develop global warming, improve its energy efficiency, develop an emissions trading scheme more than china. there are going to be economic winners, and there are going to be economic losers on this planet. we need to make sure we are on the side of the winners.
madam president, one thing we do know about climate is that it is a pretty odd old thing. we know that it was warmer on the globe in the holocene period; we know it was warmer in the roman period; we also know it was warmer in the medieval period. it was cooler in the little ice age in the early 19th century. we also know there has been no significant change in climate over the last 6 000 years and we also know that most scientific organisations have confirmed that there has been no significant statistical global warming in the last 15 years? i have these figures in front of me. they are the same figures that mr davies quoted. he is very careful in what he selects. what i would like to suggest before everybody disappears to durban, saving the world as they travel on first class airfares and sip their martinis in expensive hotels, is that i have old age pensioners in yorkshire on gbp 98 a week … and you are picking up the tab. i would suggest, given this fiscal crisis that we have, that it would be a nice gesture – particularly from you, commissioner, who does not pay much income tax and is on a very good salary – for you to offer to pay for your own trip.
madam president, on behalf of the uk conservative delegation i say with some regret that we will be having to abstain on this vote, having been unable to agree a text which we can sign up to. with the climate summit coming up, i would like to affirm our support for the key message which emerged from the g8 and g20 in advance of the 17th conference of the parties (cop17), namely that the conclusions of the summit should be balanced, fair and credible, while at the same time maintaining and strengthening the multilateral rules-based response to climate change. i fully support the need to build on the foundations of last year's cancun agreements, particularly the full realisation of the green climate fund which, of course, is crucial to many potential outcomes in durban. with such a firm working basis ahead of negotiations it is therefore vital that the latest round of talks is not encumbered by unrealistic, unworkable and unaffordable wish-lists. yet that is precisely what this parliament will present in durban with the resolution which was recently adopted in the environment committee. in the midst of this crippling recession, it is out of touch to make sweeping suggestions like financial transaction taxes, full decarbonisation etc., and even an apparent rejection of un multilateralism with an eu-style qualified majority voting system.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the auditors’ opinion on how the budget for the 2010 financial year was spent confirms the total lack of accountability that exists within the eu institutions. the european commission fails to ensure taxpayers’ money is paid to the right person for the right purpose. then it blames the member states for any irregularities that surface. more important than what the auditors tell us today is what they do not tell us. for example, the eu has paid eur 60 billion worth of structural funds to greece since it joined the euro. where were they spent? they do not seem to have fuelled any growth in that country. this parliament joins the commission in blaming member states, but has no problem in appointing bureaucrats, imposed by these same member states, even when their background makes the candidate highly inappropriate. i am not holding my breath about my colleagues rejecting ireland’s nominee for the european court of auditors, mr cardiff, who was responsible for a eur 3.6 billion accounting error. of course this parliament will not hesitate in granting discharge to the commission once again, and of course the british prime minister will still claim the 2012 eu budget is under control despite it creeping ever higher. mr cameron, please do not waste any more british taxpayers’ money. stop sending money to brussels. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, i concur with pretty much everything that mrs andreasen said. she mentioned that greece had received about eur 60 billion in structural funds. how about some of the other countries that have been mentioned today, which seem to be at fault, for example italy and spain? how much in structural funds have they received?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i mentioned greece because i did not have time to mention more countries. italy has received eur 80 billion in structural funds since it joined the eurozone. spain has received eur 130 billion, and i could go on with a long list of countries that are now in the middle of this crisis and we do not know where these structural funds have gone. in the report of the auditors over the last few years, i cannot find any mention of all the irregularities in structural funding for these countries.
mr president, my biggest concern is the error rate in cohesion policy of 7.7%. the benefits of structural funds can be seen right across my country of wales and it is often the most visible sign of the european union. therefore, it would be a great shame if high error rates allowed critics of cohesion policy to undermine it. that is why it is important that issues around procurement policy, eligible projects, eligible costs, supervision and audit are resolved quickly. i would also say that one of the biggest critics of cohesion policy is the uk government, yet its error rate for some structural funds is higher than most other member states. of course this would not apply to wales, which has an excellent record on spending its eu funds. finally, it would be useful if the commissioner or the court informed us about the biggest offenders and what is being done to ensure things improve in those member states.
mr president, i find this smug acquiescence of the eu in its continual failure to manage unacceptable accounting procedures deplorable. the people of the uk, who i would remind you are the second largest contributors to this project, are sick and tired of the eu and all the corruption that goes on on a daily basis, especially as people are witnessing severe cutbacks in public services. what i find most alarming, however, is the notion held by the unelected commission that because this happens year after year, 17 in total, it is in some way acceptable. it is clear that the eu has shown its inability to guarantee that it has legitimately spent taxpayers’ money. this just underlines how outrageous it is that the european commission is seeking another increase in its budget when there are question marks over billions of euros of its expenditure.
mr president, i see that the council have taken their seats for this. could they, in their submission, explain why they were not here for the previous debate?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, as stringent austerity measures are being introduced across europe out of necessity, and democratically elected governments are being dismantled and replaced by technocrats backed by the eu, the self-same union’s court of auditors has found unforgiveable budgetary flaws, including eur 3.2 billion squandered overseas, at a time when european union member states are in dire financial crisis. those eur 3.2 billion are effectively unaccounted for, due to non-compliance with procurement procedures and vat and a host of ineligible activities in european development fund projects. the eurozone has had to turn to the developing world to ask for help as it is heading towards ruination due to the inept handling of the common currency. yet, at the same time, vast amounts of money are simply being lost abroad. foreign aid should be the sole concern of individual countries and should relate to the nation’s foreign policy and development-funding ethos. it should not be the concern of the eu, which has been proven, time and again, as unaccountable and ineffective.
mr president, i welcome the statement by the council and by the commission. it is vital that we keep our promises in these very, very difficult times. the crisis which you refer to is a crisis which was created by developed countries and inflicted on developing countries. it is a case of saying: ‘i am doing badly but you can do worse than me; you suffer more’. quite frankly, that is unacceptable to parliament. yes, you are right, we are the biggest donor in the world, thus the importance of the eu and the devastation inflicted when we pull back on our commitments and fail to match our promises. in good times we must deliver and equally in bad times. aid effectiveness is based on long-term planning and thereby the predictability of funding. it is vital that we keep our word and our commitments to those most in need. aid is investment, and it is necessary and vital for the wellbeing of all: developed and developing countries. we talk of crisis; think of the crisis when your child is dying from malnutrition, disease, deprivation. think of that. think of children dying from diseases which are preventable. those are the crises we should be addressing and not necessarily a crisis which has been created through the pursuit of greed by banking and financial institutions. we ask the poor to make the sacrifices and give up that which they do not have, whilst at the same time we search for trillions of euros to satisfy rating agencies and bond markets which will never be satisfied. sadly, we have the ecr not wanting binding commitments to targets. why not? why is the epp seeking to remove the commitments on the land grab issue? these are issues that should unite the entire house, not divide us.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am speaking on behalf of the s&d group but also as parliament rapporteur on the revision of the cotonou partnership agreement – the framework of the joint parliamentary assembly. congratulations to the rapporteur because the report takes an integrated approach on the cooperation between the eu and the acp countries. the jpa has played an important role in monitoring the negotiations on, in particular, economic partnership agreements. the report quite rightly calls on parliaments to exercise close parliamentary scrutiny of the european development funds. however, the eu council was absent from the 20th session in kinshasa, and that sent entirely the wrong message. so i hope that it will be present in togo for the 22nd session at the end of the week: this would send the right message to acp states. however, i regret that such issues as mass sexual violence, notably in dr congo, are often only touched upon in order not to have a thorough debate. the jpa should be a platform to embrace such issues and get them on the table in a frank and robust discussion, especially as the debate could have happened in kinshasa. let me turn to the cotonou agreement which parliament is asked to ratify. however, the explicit refusal by the acp in particular to include all grounds of discrimination and the principle of non-discrimination will make it extremely difficult for me to recommend to this house to agree the proposed cotonou text. let us be open and transparent on this issue. there is only one ground which is a cause of dissent between the eu and the acp states, and it is non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. debates that we have had at the jpa level have been heated, often misinformed, and clearly mark a dividing line between us. but i want to send congratulations to the co-chair, louis michel, for his courage and his commitment to human rights and equally to others who have the courage to speak out in the jpa. the report insists that the principle of non-discrimination, including on the basis of sexual orientation, will not be compromised in the acp-eu partnership. the eu will stand up for these values and will not back down. finally, let me state the obvious: universal values declared at the un must apply universally. human rights conventions are not an à la carte menu; they define civilised societies. it is for that reason that we will defend what we believe is the principle of the universality and indivisibility of human rights.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the european union is becoming increasingly unpopular with citizens across the continent. it is rightly seen as out of touch, undemocratic and dictatorial. the euro, its grand unifying political project, is collapsing round its ears. greece and italy are the first to pay the price by having undemocratic government imposed on them. so what does the commission do to halt this decline in popularity? it comes up with vain and crass projects in an effort to make itself appear more relevant to member states. first, it attempted to place the eu flag – which is not meant to exist anyway – on the sports kits of national teams. then it calls for the eu flag to be flown at sporting events, and now it comes up with the crackpot idea of eu heritage labels. in the report it says that these eu heritage sites would be monuments, cultural landscapes, archaeological sites, and even places of remembrance. what an insult! are you really suggesting that war memorials which honour the brave and fallen in two world wars should have an eu plaque placed on them? there is only one memorial in england i can think of where it would be appropriate to stick an eu plaque, and that is the gravestone of ted heath, the man who betrayed britain into the european union. i do not think anyone would object to that, least of all him. the report also says that the plaque’s aim is to strengthen the sense of belonging to the eu. it will not: it will just enrage the natives. it is just desperate propaganda from an organisation to which more and more people do not wish to belong. i urge all meps who are proud of the heritage of their own nations to vote for my group’s rejection amendment tomorrow. let us stick the european heritage label on the dustbin of history.
madam president, i would like to follow on from what mr scurria has said and to celebrate our common european heritage, because we do have a common european history despite what ukip or the gue or the ecr may think. we are part of the same continent and we do all share a history. that is what this label is seeking to celebrate. i certainly welcome the european heritage label. i think it is an excellent initiative. i think it will be good because it will bring economic benefits. there is little doubt that it will increase tourism, and it will also be good because it will provide an educational focus for those who wish to take advantage of it. i see the european heritage label as something to celebrate in these bleak economic times when things in europe are not as good as they have been, something we can get on with and enjoy and see for the good of us all. it is about time that we viewed this in this spirit. it is a good initiative, a joyful initiative and something which we can all take part in. i would hope that those in other groups who do not see it like this will actually change their minds and go out and sell this concept to the rest of the european union, to the rest of europe, and indeed to the rest of the world.
madam president, i cannot believe that we have been debating this at a time of extreme austerity. how could we justify any expenditure on this when public services are being severely cut back? you talk of a common heritage, but what is a common heritage? i come from a country that has been free for almost a thousand years; a country that in the last century stood up against dictatorship, stood up against fascism in germany and fascism in italy, and stood up against the iron curtain and communism. that is something that we cannot all share, because we had different versions of those events. some of the countries in the european union were active participants in that manipulation and destruction of history. maybe we should make auschwitz the centre of european heritage, because that is a symbol of what happened to the last country that tried to unify the european countries by force.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, here we are, on the edge of a financial and social disaster, and in the room today we have the four men who were supposed to be responsible. yet we have listened to the dullest, most technocratic speeches i have ever heard. you are all in denial. by any objective measure, the euro is a failure. who is actually responsible? who is in charge out of you lot? well of course the answer is none of you, because none of you have been elected. none of you actually have any democratic legitimacy for the roles that you currently hold within this crisis. into this vacuum, albeit reluctantly, has stepped angela merkel. we are now living in a german-dominated europe – something that the european project was actually supposed to stop, and something that those that went before us actually paid a heavy price in blood to prevent. i do not want to live in a german-dominated europe and nor do the citizens of europe, but you guys have played a role. when mr papandreou got up and used the word ‘referendum’, you, mr rehn, described it as ‘a breach of confidence’, and your friends here got together like a pack of hyenas, rounded on papandreou, and had him removed and replaced by a puppet government. what an absolutely disgusting spectacle that was. and not satisfied with that, you decided that berlusconi had to go, so he was removed and replaced by mr monti – a former european commissioner, a fellow architect of this euro disaster, and a man who was not even a member of the parliament. it is getting like an agatha christie novel where we are trying to work out who is going to be the next person who is going to be bumped off. the difference is that we know who the villains are. you should all be held accountable for what you have done. you should all be fired. i have to say, mr van rompuy, that 18 months ago when we first met, i was wrong about you. i said that you would be the quiet assassin of nation state democracy, but you are not any more. you are rather noisy about it, are you not? you, an unelected man, went to italy and said that this is not the time for elections but the time for actions. what, in god’s name, gives you the right to say that to the italian people?
mr president, president barroso has said we need some positive action. i agree with him, so i would like to suggest some positive actions. first, the december council should agree on a coordinated europe-wide strategy to fight youth unemployment. this should involve a special european youth unemployment fund to finance targeted programmes in countries with the highest youth unemployment rates. second, the march 2012 european summit should agree on the creation of a eurobond system within the eurozone. that would follow up a proposal by the commission to the december summit, and that system should aim at grouping at least two trillion euros of eurozone public debt in a joint guarantee fund by the end of 2012. third, the march summit should also define a european strategy of investment for growth with the objective of raising average eu public investment to 2.5% of gdp in 2015 and 3% by 2020. this should be accompanied by a declaration by the commission regarding the implementation of the new stability and growth pact committing the commission to a differentiated use of the rules in the interest of strengthening public investment. in return, the council would agree to specific powers to the commission in assessing in detail national public investment plans, plans contained in draft national budgets on the basis of a list of public investment spending recognised as productive public investment. these actions would give hope to our young people. they would have meaning for the people on the streets of my region and your region. they would actually give us the chance of growth and employment. what you are talking about is rearranging the deckchairs while the ship is sinking. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
mr president, mr hughes mentioned youth unemployment which is of grave concern. would he perhaps consider the effect of the commission’s temporary workers directive on youth unemployment?
mr president, the effect of the commission’s proposal – or rather not its proposal, but the directive that is now in effect – is, in my view, extremely positive. my son is an example. having left university, he went through a series of temporary posts where he was grossly exploited, quite frankly. as a result of the directive, he now has pro rata rights with full-time workers. i think it is an excellent proposal and i am glad it is now implemented.
mr president, parliament, the council and the commission have spent hundreds of hours over the course of the last 12 months discussing and negotiating a suitable text on eu legislation to establish the principles of good economic governance. now is the time to deliver these carefully crafted words through definite actions, by thoroughly implementing the agreed rules and measures and ensuring their compliance in all relevant countries. it must be monitored and then enforced. we do not need at this time any more grand plans or structures or statements. the time for delivering the existing plans is here. the eu will be judged by its results, in terms of concrete measures which will assist stability and go towards re-establishing investor confidence in the european economy. the ink may not yet be dry on this afternoon’s signing of the legislation, but deep structural reforms are only just beginning in certain member states. unpleasant and unpopular actions are required to ensure a competitive eu for the next decade and beyond. action, not words, is now needed. growth, not additional regulation, has got to be the prime focus.
mr president, crisis solutions are fast becoming binary: lenders of last resort and leaders of last resort, or not. further shocks will happen and i do not think that we can avoid accepting losses on overpriced assets at some stage. but there are more ways to exploit the depth of a combined bond market. there is more strength within europe than going round with a begging bowl to china. investors are reluctant about the efsf and now care must be taken in courting sovereign wealth funds. if guarantees are wrong, instead of a transfer of funds from germany to other parts of europe, which does have mutual benefit, we risk transfer of those same funds to china with no benefit. the single market is crucial for growth. the fruits of tighter discipline within the eurozone could be undermined if intergovernmentalism and protectionism fragments the eu and damages reputation. in this, the community method is our guardian.
mr president, i notice the word ‘competent’ is missing from the title of this debate, for competence and financial probity are strangers to this project. the very foundations of the euro were dug up when the commission allowed member states to ignore the convergence criteria of maastricht. we all know that this is a political project, not an economic one, and political expediency will always prevail over sound economic rules. but what do you care about the ordinary person on the street? the eu has shown its utter contempt and arrogance concerning the detrimental effect your deluded economic policies have on their lives. maastricht had only four criteria, that you negligently brushed aside, and now you are proposing a six-pack. this exercise will fail and expose the soft underbelly of europe. what confidence do you all project? absolutely none. your answers to economic problems are more political solutions, more political and financial integration and more blatant disregard of democratic values. ‘stop now’, my constituents say. it takes a wise person to accept they are wrong. just for once, just once, say you were wrong and dismantle this project.
mr president, when there is a stench of death and decay in your house, there is no point complaining about the neighbour’s drains or arguing about which air freshener to try next. the first thing to do is to admit that the real problem is the rotting corpse of the dead elephant in the living room. it is absurd to speak of economic governance while ignoring the root cause of the debt crisis that is dragging europe, and indeed the world, down to economic disaster. the thing that is rotten is the fiat money banking system. a system that allows the banks to create credit out of nothing and lend it into circulation as interest-bearing debt; a system that makes bankers the masters of the universe, instead of the servants of productive industry. a system that leads to poverty, division and war. the first step to long-term economic stability is to put an end to the international bankers’ swindle and restore the power to create credit to sovereign national governments. this is the only way out of the crisis; the way to prosperity and peace.
mr president, i would like to address mr van rompuy. i have to say that i find your timetable much too leisurely, both for the markets and for democracy. in a bureaucratic timetable from december to march the leaders will ponder the goals of treaty change. mr barroso has spelt out clearly the goal. it is to create a credible, discernible, strong, federal economic government for fiscal union. he has also quite correctly said that all member states should be committed to achieving that exercise. i have to say to my british colleagues that if the uk thinks it has the moral authority or the political will to block what is necessary and desired by everyone else, it will be a profound tragedy for britain and also for europe.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, it is all very interesting for politicians from the eu and the acp countries to get together, but if we really want to help development, if we really want to help entrepreneurs in developing countries, quite often the best way is for politicians to get out of the way and allow entrepreneurs in those countries to trade with each other. we also need to help entrepreneurs in many of these countries to tackle some of the barriers to trade that they face, whether in terms of local state monopolies or companies that are connected to corrupt local politicians. what we need to do is free the spirit of free enterprise to allow those entrepreneurs to create wealth for their citizens, and ensure that they do not face trade barriers when they are selling their goods and services to us in the eu. let us make sure that we reduce our trade barriers. let us make sure that we help the entrepreneurs of these countries, and let us make sure that, together, we tackle poverty.
mr president, i am deeply unimpressed with this idea of a european heritage label ‘to strengthen european citizens’ sense of belonging to the eu’. once again, we seem to have a scary 1984-style rewriting of history, just like the wasteful museum of european history, where no-one can agree when this history is due to start and where, of course, no-one can mention the war. this is an orwellian exercise that seeks to term world wars as mere european civil wars, with the realities obscured in a haze of half-truths. in brussels last week a french lady insulted my red remembrance day poppy as ‘out of date’. i find it disgusting that a symbol of the huge sacrifice that has guaranteed all our freedoms should be treated with such contempt. that poppy commemorates, too, the british soldier who died just last week in afghanistan. history may be inconvenient and painful but, by god, you get into far more trouble seeking to deny its realities.
mr president, whenever there is a german general election british newspapers always run the same photograph, which is of germans voting in traditional national costume – bavarians in their leather shorts, and north german ladies in these fantastic dresses. it seems to me that those photographs are now the perfect symbol of european democracy. voting has become a folkloric activity. our constituents go through the motions out of atavism, out of some half-remembered civic duty from the time when it used to matter, rather than in the expectation that casting their ballot will make any difference. and do you know what? they are right to think that. according to a study by the german federal justice ministry, 84% of the laws in the member states are there to give force to eu directives or regulations. the split is no longer between left and right, between capitalists and socialists; it is between the ‘euro elites’ and everybody else. how sad that this continent, which developed and exported the idea that laws ought not to be passed nor taxes raised except by our elected representatives, should have turned its back on democracy itself. the thing that now deserves a heritage label is the ideal of representative government in europe.
mr president, i have abstained from voting on the european heritage label report, as i still have a number of concerns that have not been addressed from the first reading. my main concern is that the tone of the report is one of homogenisation. this goes against the principles of the european committee of the regions, which stands for respecting the cultural differences between member states. indeed the difference between welsh heritage and the rest of the uk does not even support this integrated approach. i do not agree with the potential increased bureaucratic burden which will be placed on member states as a result of processing these applications. i also worry about the potential difficulties that could arise in relation to the financing of such a european heritage label. given our current economic climate, i think this is poorly timed.
just while you are in the chamber, mr kelly, i am aware of your complaint about the way in which we select speakers in question time to the commission and i am one of the two vice-presidents who chairs that. there are problems. yesterday, for example, there were 60 people requesting the floor and we could only get through 20 questions, so that is 40 dissatisfied members. we are considering alternatives to selecting the speakers. one of the proposals from me is that we have a big glass bowl on the table here and we fill it with coloured ping pong balls with numbers on, and i merely select from the bowl. we are indeed considering alternatives to the way we do it at the moment, but thank you for pointing out the problems.
mr president, one of the issues that we often see here is this idea of building a european identity. as the previous speakers mentioned, we have had the museum of history, which seeks to erase the unpleasant episodes of european history. we have had the european prize for journalism, and now we see the european label of heritage. but what is this label? as mr kelly said, the label is not about a site’s beauty or its architectural quality, but rather its symbolic value for european integration and the history of the union. it is not about the conservation of sites, but about the activities they can offer and their educational dimension, especially for young people. so there we have it. it is not really about heritage; it is actually about propaganda and educating young people to believe more in european integration. if we really want to focus upon heritage, let us not forgot those who gave their lives so that we can enjoy our freedom today.
mr president, i supported this amendment to reject this proposal on the european heritage label as i believe it is an artificial attempt to create a european identity. only in your twisted imaginations does such an identity exist, an identity that my constituents want no part of, nor the expense of paying for. we have no joint heritage. most of you have lived under totalitarianism – either communism or fascism – whilst we in the uk have fought against many of your countries for our freedom. are you so insecure that you have to develop such a scheme? be proud of your national heritages, if you can. i am of mine.
mr president, maintaining cultural heritage is of course an important aspect of national identity. it contributes to the understanding and preservation of our natural environment, as well as highlighting europe’s rich and diverse historical roots. whilst i welcome this initiative and initiatives that can help member states coordinate their actions in this area, i am not convinced that the benefits of the european heritage label will outweigh its cost implications. the delivery of existing and highly regarded programmes, such as unesco, would be undermined and in fact duplicated. additionally, in the current period of financial austerity, i do not feel that it is appropriate to be utilising funds that could otherwise be channelled into initiatives that provide jobs and growth. quite simply, we must prioritise. therefore, i voted to abstain on this second reading for a number of reasons. there has been little substantive change since the first reading, which i also abstained on. the label will duplicate existing heritage programmes at national level and by the un, and the financial contribution of member states should be questioned, given these times of budget cuts. on a practical level, the proliferation of european heritage label sites under the current proposal will serve to diminish any label’s credibility.
mr president, i speak as someone with a railway industry background. i worked for britain’s passenger railways, the channel tunnel high-speed rail link, and as a ministerial adviser. whilst i support the concept of a british-style model of liberalised rail services, which has given the uk the fastest-growing railways in europe, of track charges, of open access, of train leasing and of a strong and independent rail regulator, i simply do not see this as anything to do with the european union. britain has 10 000 miles of rail lines and only one line is connected to europe. continental-gauge trains would not even fit on our lines in britain. they would demolish our bridges and tunnels with their bulk. so i am sorry, but this idea of a single european railway area is a nonsense. it is unnecessary, undesirable and excessive interference in the responsibilities of national governments, so i do not support this report. in short, will the eu please keep off our tracks!
mr zver, i am sorry but we have moved on from heritage to railways, i do apologise. this is not a debate, it is an opportunity for members to make a point about the way they voted. this is the explanations of vote.
mr president, whilst i can appreciate the vision of the rapporteur for a single european railway area when it concerns a single landmass, i believe that the proposed measures would inevitably create unnecessary regulatory burden for the rail industry throughout europe, including those that would not benefit at all from being part of that single landmass. this is why i voted against this report. this report excludes provision for an obligatory minimum service for rail companies in the case of strikes which, in my view, would be detrimental and not acceptable for european citizens. in addition to this, it is envisaged that there would be a high level of involvement from the commission. i cannot support the additional oversight over the work of national regulatory bodies and the creation, ultimately, of a european regulatory body for railways.
mr president, i voted against this report. unbundling of infrastructure management and operation of transport services is good, but we already have that in the uk. calling for additional financing in member states for a ten-t is problematic at a time of economic crisis. in fact, in my country, the cost of a new high-speed rail link – hs2 – is causing such an outcry that the government is trying to portray the project as a domestic necessity, rather than part of an eu-wide project. even the uk state broadcaster, the bbc, seems to have fallen for this deception. the first railway package of 2001 was such a failure that the commission had to take 13 member states to the court of justice for failure to implement it properly. the truth is they probably could not afford to implement it properly. since 2001, the percentage of freight being moved by rail has actually fallen: the exact opposite of what this package is set to achieve.
mr president, the markets have withdrawn their confidence in the eurozone, the bond spreads are widening, our economies are contracting, the doom is almost upon us and here we are solemnly talking about these proposals massively to increase our debt and deficit and pour more money into this climate change project. it would be disastrous if we actually meant it, but of course what is really happening is an exercise in post-modern legislation: we are not using the law as an instrument of effecting real change; we are using the law as a way of showing what terribly nice people we are. the rest of the world has made it clear that they have no intention of applying the targets being discussed at these un conferences, but europe still has this pious requirement that we pretend to mean it, even though we have no intention of implementing it. just ponder, though, that that might be why we are in this mess in the first place. constantly using our constituents’ money – because meps generally are exempt from national taxation – to show what terribly concerned and decent human beings we are has landed our continent in this debt crisis in the first place. more spending is not going to be the way out.
mr president, whenever we have looked at the issue of development finance in the past, it has really been an exercise in taking the money from taxpayers in europe, giving it to the wealthy elites of the developing countries and calling that direct budgetary support. now is definitely the time for us to be far more imaginative and more targeted, but also let us not forget that if the governments withdraw from this role and we actually help entrepreneurs in the developing countries, there is a role for finance. let us look at an example: the kiva website, which encourages people from all round the world to lend money directly to entrepreneurs in developing countries. when that money comes back, we lend again and we help take more people out of poverty than development aid often does. let us also look at the other issues and instruments, such as private equity, which is responsible for about 12.5% of south africa’s gdp. unfortunately, when we had a debate on the alternative investment fund managers directive, there was a move to prevent investors in the european union investing in funds outside the eu that invested in the development of these countries. let us make sure that we are consistent on this and we really want to help finance development.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for those 6000 redundant workers from 300 companies active in construction, architecture, engineering and technical testing in ireland, i cannot support this report. i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. many brits have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in ireland. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency. i was elected to support them and make sure their interests are properly represented therefore i cannot agree to that kind of use of british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i voted to give the green light to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers in ireland made redundant due to the downturn of the construction industry.
in writing. − i voted to give the green light to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist 842 workers in ireland made redundant due to the economic downturn.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for those 6000 redundant workers from 300 companies active in construction, architecture, engineering and technical testing in ireland, i can not support this report. i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. many of brits have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in ireland. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency. i was elected to support them and make sure their interests are properly represented therefore i cannot agree to that kind of use of british taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i voted to give the green light to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist 3382 workers in ireland who have been made redundant due to the downturn in the construction industry.
in writing. − i voted to give the green light to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers in austria made redundant due to the global economic downturn.
in writing. − although i have great sympathy for redundant workers from aldi hellas/greece, i believe that uk taxpayers’ money, which provides a significant contribution to the eu and thus global adjustment fund budget, is better concentrated on providing jobs for unemployed workers in the uk. unemployment in the uk continues to rise to unexpected levels. many of our heavy industries have shut down and our workforce is inundated with eu migrants. it is a pure injustice towards hardworking brits who have lost their jobs in industries that have relocated to other eu countries under eu law to then find that their contributions as taxpayers are being spent by the eu in assisting unemployed people in greece. increasingly the uk is becoming a hub for people who have fled their own eu member states to try to earn more money or claim benefits in the uk, which they often send large proportions of back home rather than inject it into the local economy. as unemployment continues to rise in the uk, particularly blighting some of the former mining towns in wales, i cannot justify assenting to aid newly unemployed workers abroad when long-term unemployed people continue to suffer in communities in my constituency. my constituents will not accept this, neither can i.
in writing. − i voted to give the green light to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers in the retail sector in greece made redundant.
in writing. − i voted for this report which points out that through the quality of its work, the jpa has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation. the european commission now subjects country and regional strategy papers to parliamentary scrutiny by both the european parliament and the acp countries’ national parliaments. it is important for the committee on development and the jpa to monitor the situation and ensure that effective use is made of this means of parliamentary scrutiny. the assembly has played, and continues to play, a key role in monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements (epas). hearings of the head negotiators on both sides, meetings with economic and social players (both at formal meetings and at events held alongside them) and interaction between european and southern parliamentarians have helped to make the process more transparent and have made it easier to take local issues into account. whatever the outcome of the negotiations, there can be no doubt that the assembly’s work has had a bearing on the process.
in writing. − the commission has stated that the general objectives of the european heritage label are to strengthen european citizens’ sense of belonging to the european union. how timely it is, therefore, that we are presented with this report at a time when citizens of member states across the eu, fed up with the constant interference into their lives and national identity, feel more and more disenchanted with the eu, and at a time when the great eu project of currency harmonisation is blowing an economic tornado across the eurozone and, indeed, beyond. meps must come to the realisation that people want less europe, not more. when it comes to heritage, we want to celebrate our own national heritage and that of other nation states, but we do not need an eu narrative imposed upon the rich heritage of countries across europe, diluting what means so much to each of us.
in writing. − i am fully supportive of initiatives designed to promote history and cultural heritage and i voted in favour of today’s second reading documents which highlight the need to appreciate national and regional diversity. i am dubious however as to whether ‘strengthening european citizens sense of belonging to the union’ can or should be fostered by way of legislation. identities cannot be forced on anyone and political institutions can only survive for as long as they have the support of the people.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which aims to strengthen european citizens’ sense of belonging to the european union, based on shared elements of history and heritage, as well as an appreciation of diversity, and to strengthen intercultural dialogue.
in writing. − europe does not need a heritage label for historic sites. at a time of austerity we cannot afford to duplicate the unesco world heritage sites or member states’ own programmes such as english heritage’s blue plaque scheme for london. london is my home town and my home constituency and i am proud that it is one of the few cities in the world with four separate unesco world heritage sites. nevertheless i see no added value in re-branding westminster abbey, kew gardens, the tower of london and maritime greenwich as eu heritage sites. of course there is no guarantee that london’s great historic buildings would qualify for the european heritage label. the integrationist tone of this report suggests that special attention should be paid to sites of ‘pan-european importance’, so perhaps european tourists in the future will be asked to gaze in wonder at the berlaymont building in brussels or the european parliament in strasbourg. perhaps a heritage label is what the european parliament in strasbourg deserves; at least that way we would be consigning it to history.
in writing. − it is appropriate that we voted on this report in the week that the scottish government launched a major consultation for scotland’s rail network post-2014. the scottish government is committed to a rail network offering value for money, quality of service and with the passengers’ interest at its heart.
in writing. − the first railway package adopted in 2001 was the first serious attempt to stop the steady decline of railway transport and to reform the european regulatory framework. ten years later we see that this first reform was unable to improve significantly the railway’s situation: rail transport was unable catch up with other modes of transport, in particular road transport. for example, between 1996 and 2008 rail freight’s share decreased by almost 2% to 10.8%, whereas road freight transport increased from 42.1% to 45.9%. this development is even more worrying against the background of a steady overall growth in freight transport of around 2.3% annually: the railways sector has been unable to profit from an otherwise favourable environment. where trucks and planes cross borders seamlessly, transnational rail services encounter numerous technical, legal and political obstacles. yet while road transport in particular shows more and more signs of saturation, rail transport still holds potential for growth. moreover, it can play a key role in supporting the eu’s goals to reduce co2 emissions and make its economy more resource efficient. the european commission in its 2011 white paper therefore rightly attributes a major role to rail transport in achieving the goals of a more sustainable and greener transport system for europe.
in writing. − i will vote for this report today even though i believe that yet again vested interest from the railway lobby has diluted it in certain key areas. the rapporteur is to be congratulated on doing a difficult job well. it is interesting to see how many votes in the transport committee follow political lines. but when it comes to railways members vote along national lines, defending their own national railways. perhaps this is why we have failed to deliver the single market in the railway sector, that this sector is still in many member states dominated by states owned railways, who jealously guard their near monopolistic positions and why progress on interoperability and particularly cross-border traffic has been painfully slow if not lethargic. as we enter 2012 our railways are about to enter 1912. in many areas the speed of trains is now slower that the steam era and international freight is no more than a trickle. what the railways need is a radical shake-up with independent regulation and transparent accounting allied with a can do attitude. status quo is not an option if we are to deliver on efficient, safe, affordable and transparent pan european train network, yet it seems (...) many railway quarters status quo is what they desire. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170)
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, being convinced that the eu has to go to durban with coherent and robust proposals to tackle climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is vital that the eu leads the way at the next un climate summit in durban. this will ensure that the fight continues to extend the co2-cutting kyoto protocol beyond 2012. i supported this resolution because, like previous climate resolutions adopted by the european parliament, it states that the eu should be aiming above the current 20% greenhouse gas reduction target for 2020. this would be in the eu’s own economic interest and would compliment the eu’s strategy for growths and jobs. there should also be an agreement reached to establish a green climate fund, which would offer support to developing countries.
in writing. − action on climate change is one of the eu’s strongest policy records and a key reason for european citizens to support european integration. the environment does not respect national borders – so only by working together can we tackle the urgent problem of climate change and set an example for the rest of the world. parliament’s resolution urges the eu to play a full role in the upcoming durban talks and to reaffirm the need for more ambitious, binding targets post-2012. it also calls for all parties to close the ‘gigatonne gap’ between the reduction in emissions they have committed to, and the reduction they have actually achieved – crucial to the objective of keeping global warming below 2ºc. the vote highlighted the weakness of the uk’s conservative meps on climate change. after trying and failing to water down the text and remove support for a 30% emissions reduction target – in defiance of their own government’s policy – conservative meps refused to support the resolution calling for action on climate change. i and my labour colleagues understand the importance of tackling climate change in our own lifetime, and so we are delighted to have voted for this resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which urges the commission to include the fight against misuse of tax havens and against tax evasion and illicit capital flight in its development policy as a matter of priority.
in writing. − my hobby is writing film scripts so i declare an interest in this subject. but whilst this report might claim to be about new ‘cinema paradiso’s, it is more likely to lead to ‘cinema disastroso’. why does the eu want to discriminate against non-european films? firstly, this is a form of non-tariff barrier and against wto rules. second, filmmaking is incredibly international these days – defining a non-european film is difficult: is harry potter or james bond an american film for its production, finance and distribution, or british by dint of talent, theme, location and studios used? the ‘fifth element’ may be directed by frenchman luc besson but bruce willis is the star. even the iconic french film ‘chocolat’ had substantial us support. third, you simply can’t force people to watch films they don’t want to see. european movies can be winners without giving away seats: ‘chocolat’ took usd 71 million at the box office, ‘amélie’ usd 152 million and “the king’s speech” usd 386 million. any support for film is better targeted on developing good stories or in skills development, not in seeking to prop up films no one wants to see. that is why on principle i could not vote for this report, whilst being very much in support of the film industry.
in writing. − this report rightly highlights the importance of european cinema. scotland has a vibrant and important cultural scene and the scottish government is committed to promoting fully our creative industries. scotland’s cultural bodies have an important role to play in the wider european cultural scene – just as an independent scotland will have an important role to play in the wider eu.
in writing. − european cinema is facing its biggest challenge to date: coping with the requirements of modern technology. the future of cinema is inseparably tied to the arrival of the digital era. modern technologies change the audiovisual sector, creating challenges and possibilities for production, distribution and the accessibility of european cinema as well as certain dangers in the transition from analogue to digital systems. the transformation process should be achieved expeditiously and be coordinated on a national as well as european level. participation in this process should be the responsibility of both the public and the private sectors.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because it does not address the real needs of either european cinemas or european filmmakers. we all want our local cinemas to survive and we all want films made in europe to be successful, but you cannot create a european identity through films. forcing cinemas to show a certain proportion of european films, regardless of whether anyone wants to watch them or not, is the quickest way to send even more of our cinemas out of business. our cinemas cannot be immune from market forces nor can they be propped up by the types of subsidies proposed in this report. we live in a modern and fast moving digital age where cinemas must compete against a variety of new services. they still occupy a vital place in the market and play an important social role, but there is little in this report that will help them to survive or adapt. the ecr group therefore tabled a number of separate votes on these points and voted against their inclusion in the report. however, as they remain in the report, i can not support it.
in writing. − cinema is an important cultural medium, but i cannot support this report, which calls for state funding for ‘european films’ and the cinemas that show them. it calls for ‘european cinema’ to be taught as a subject in schools. in the soviet union this was called nashe kino – ‘our cinema’. it was state propaganda, and it was part of an overall campaign of indoctrination. thank you to comrade borys for reminding us of another political project that collapsed in economic ruin.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am privileged to serve as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with the us, under the strong leadership of elmar brok. my own knowledge and expertise is principally in the area of justice, human rights and security. naturally, therefore, i put a great deal of emphasis on the parts of our resolution which stress the shared transatlantic values of liberty, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and also the cooperation we are pursuing to guarantee liberty and security. i do feel that we fall into the danger of taking each other too much for granted. despite, or perhaps because of, how interdependent we are, we do not invest in the eu-us relationship to the extent it requires. but the economic crisis demands that we prioritise jobs and growth, so the great interest in a transatlantic initiative for jobs and growth, which meps expressed already in a resolution in september and repeat in the present resolution, is fully justified. the remarks made by commissioner de gucht suggest the determination that the text should take up on that. cutting barriers to mutual trade and investment is a ‘no-brainer’ when you look at the figures. it was a commission study in 2009 which talked about the huge sums that could be added to the us economy, and even more to the eu economy, if we freed up transatlantic trade. in the case of the eu, the figure was usd 158 billion; the us figure was usd 53 billion. as commissioner de gucht said, the transatlantic legislative dialogue pushed firmly by our chair is adopting a very focused and business-like working method. we, quite rightly, have to justify our overseas trips to our constituents; i believe we can do so by showing that, by meeting our congressional counterparts, meps can improve our constituents’ job prospects and their ease of travel and doing business.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the unique and historical relationship between the united states and the european union is based on shared values, such as free market economics and a long-standing commitment to fundamental respect for human rights and democratic forms of governance. a close and integrated relationship between the eu and the us is essential, given the interdependence of the transatlantic economic partnership, the biggest in the world. it is from this base that a significant proportion of global trade can actually take place and, due to this close relationship, vast levels of global wealth are constantly being formed in a well-regulated environment, which is rule-based and transparent for all. america is also an essential ally militarily. it brings to the international arena a unique and unparalleled military capability, as we saw recently in action over the libyan theatre. as the leading nato power, it is indispensable to european security. i welcome, for example, the recent announcement that a joint eu-us cyber security exercise will be conducted by the end of this year, helping prepare the way against a potential terrorist cyber attack on businesses and national infrastructures. it is also extremely important that a coordinated approach across the atlantic, between the usa and eu member states, continues to be taken to many of today’s most pressing foreign policy questions – from containing iranian nuclear ambitions to dealing with troublesome north korea, and of course the promotion and support for the un quartet, of which the eu and the us are members, as a meaningful mechanism to deliver peace in the arab-israeli conflict. the eu-us partnership is also essential to dealing with global climate change and energy security, particularly making sure that countries from which we draw our energy supplies are stable and secure in the middle east, south america, africa and elsewhere, as well as the economic challenges posed by the rising phenomena of brics, the economic powers of today and the future, and in particular the challenge posed by massive china, both militarily and economically. eu-us collaboration has borne many mutually beneficial fruits in the past. in my view and in the view of the ecr group, it will long continue to do so in future.
madam president, one policy issue that will be discussed will be the planned action against iran, possibly involving an attack by israel with the support of the united states. the pretext of course would be the report of the international atomic energy agency, which concluded that iran was indeed developing nuclear weapons. reuters has reported that its sources of information were the same security service sources that provided the untruthful evidence that iraq had weapons of mass destruction. one of the older sources of iran’s alleged intentions is the so-called ‘lap-top of death’, supposedly provided to the us intelligence service in 2005 by one unidentified person, who apparently received it from a different unidentified person in iran, and which contained plans for a missile with a nuclear warhead. more recent evidence about highly-enriched uranium comes from the american enterprise institute, a neocon group with links to israeli lobbyists. it must be remembered that some of the evidence produced in the run-up to the war against iraq, for example the alleged purchase of uranium from nigeria, was completely fabricated. if the conflict should lead to the closure of the gulf of hormuz by iran, this could lead to a rise in the price of crude oil to usd 200 or more a barrel, aggravating the recession severely. if people are not concerned about the loss of lives in this impending conflict, perhaps they will spare a moment or two for the loss of euros, pounds and dollars.
madam president, the eu clearly has a credibility problem. the eu purports to be a player in world affairs, and this statement wants greater cooperation with the united states on many different levels. i wonder what our american friends make of catherine ashton who has never received a single vote in her life. now the eu is dismantling troublesome democratically-elected governments and replacing them with unelected technocrats, like mr monti in italy, and we have the disgraceful actions of unelected council president van rompuy, who poured scorn on calls for a referendum and fresh elections in greece because we the people means something completely different to the united states than it does to the european union. when americans refer to ‘the people’ they mean the masses, but in the eu the only people who really count are the technocrats. before you talk about promoting democracy in the european neighbourhood, you should allow it to be reinstated in member states.
madam president, the economic fates of the united states and the european union are inextricably linked. the need for closer economic cooperation has never been greater. for this reason, i warmly welcome the statement by the commissioner that jobs and growth will be at the heart of the summit, as requested in the caspary report in our house in september. there is a great opportunity to show that the transatlantic partnership is addressing the common concerns of citizens on both sides of the atlantic, and will be of real value to their futures. ultimately, the central question is whether we have in the european union and the united states, as a multipolar world emerges, the vision and the resolve to reshape and deepen the transatlantic partnership for the 21st century. for this reason, i urge the commission and the united states administration to make it visible at the summit that there is a major initiative under way for jobs and growth. in this way, the transatlantic economic council can be shown the way ahead, involving business and political leaders in the process.
madam president, i am hugely supportive of transatlantic dialogue. in today’s global markets, the eu must be talking at all levels to its key partners around the world. when, in september 2010, the heads of state of the g20 got together to agree to better regulate the world’s financial markets, they set out a few broad principles for the reform of the derivatives markets. it has now fallen upon legislators and regulatory bodies to make these principles a reality. parliament, together with the council and commission, have added much of the detail and have fleshed out many of those principles agreed at g20, so as to create better-regulated, more stable and fairer derivative markets. however, we must not forget that this was a g20 commitment. the significance of this is that we must ensure that all the g20 markets not only implement those commitments, but also implement them in a way which allows them to fit together globally. we must not get caught up in making our markets so secure that no one outside of europe can access them. likewise, the dodd-frank act needs to be interpreted in a non-protectionist way. i urge all those attending the eu-us summit not to get caught up in equivalence and comparability of legislation or, worse, reciprocity, but instead to look at ways of bringing together disparate systems so they can interact in a smooth and predictable way. while we must work to ensure that dodd-frank in the us and emir and mifid in the eu fit together, we must not forget about the other members of g20 and their financial market regulation, making certain that asian, american and european capital can flow through the system in a transparent and safe way. this should be our ultimate goal.
mr obermayr, you will know that i have only just taken over the chair. i was about to make a statement at the beginning of the next debate which said that we are running very, very late and will all colleagues, as i often say, please respect the speaking time, because i will be using this. if you do not, you infringe upon the speaking rights of your other colleagues exactly. so i will be watching, and i will be banging this thing which i hate to do, but we are going to have to do so today. i am sorry to end this debate on that note. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (17 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the open internet and net neutrality in europe by herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000243/2011 – b7-0641/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on the open internet and net neutrality in europe by malcolm harbour, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, jürgen creutzmann, heide rühle, adam bielan, cornelis de jong, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000261/2011 – b7-0653/2011).
author. − madam president, it is a privilege to be working once again with my distinguished colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy, because we had a very fruitful partnership in the reform of the telecoms package. i am very pleased that mrs trautmann and mrs pilar del castillo vera, who were jointly, with me, the three rapporteurs on the telecoms directive – sometimes rather unkindly known as the three musketeers for some reason – are together again and addressing this issue. my colleagues will remember that, from the side of the consumers’ and users’ rights reforms, together with the basic principles in the framework directive we spent a huge amount of time and energy crafting amendments to the existing telecoms framework to deal with some of the potential issues that might arise in a framework in which broadband speeds, access to much greater bandwidth of communications and ability to offer different ranges and types of services on the internet might bring about the sort of anti-competitive behaviour which would restrict the rights of consumers to access and distribute content and services of their choice. that indeed was the fundamental piece that was introduced into the framework directive itself. it is worth just recalling that – that ability of end users to access and distribute information and to run applications and services of their choice is absolutely at the heart of this whole debate about so-called net neutrality and the choices that were put on the table. the commission, at our invitation, has been following this very closely, but of course my fellow chairman, herbert reul, is quite right in saying that the test at the moment is to see how the reforms that we put in place in the telecoms package are actually working out in practice. what were the issues that were put on the table to deal with ensuring that this open character of the internet is maintained and continues to be delivered? first of all there was the whole principle of ensuring competition – giving consumers choice of services, but above all actually being able to switch providers if they did not like the types of services that were on offer or indeed any restrictions that might be placed on access to certain types of services. there is nothing intrinsically wrong with having offers that may be limited in choice at a lower price, provided that consumers know what they are getting. that is the crucial point here. so within the universal service and users’ rights element we ensured that the ability to switch easily – and particularly if it was a voice service to take your number or indeed your internet address very speedily and quickly within one day – was enshrined within that. secondly, the transparency of the offers that consumers are getting is absolutely fundamental. the commission has been consulting about, and a number of regulators have been looking at, the whole issue of what the actual advertised delivery speed of one’s connection is, what the management measures are and what service providers are doing to deal with times where there may be limitations of capacity in times of network overload. that applies particularly to mobile operators – as many of us will know. that transparency of contract terms is a fundamental requirement of the telecoms package and we have asked the commission to make sure that, in every country, regulators are enforcing those transparency and information requirements alongside the switching aspect. finally, in terms of what we put in – and colleagues will remember the famous article 21 of the reform on the users’ rights directive – we have actually given regulators, for the first time, the ability to intervene in the marketplace if they see that an operator is actively discriminating against a content carried on its networks that competes with content of its own. in other words, if an operator actually artificially degrades the quality of service provision for a particular service where it is providing a competing service. i think we would all agree that this is absolutely unacceptable. that is clearly discriminatory behaviour as regards quality of service on the internet and undermines the whole principle of net neutrality. we have given the regulators those powers and they are invited to use them. of course, one of the major achievements of the telecoms package was to have a body of european regulators – the berec that was in mrs del castillo vera’s proposal – and they are the people whose job it is to ensure that that is being carried out. there is a lot on the table. this is a good report and a good resolution, but the proof of the pudding will be in the implementation of what we have asked for.
mr president, i want to draw attention to the topic of human trafficking within the roma community. the poverty of the roma and the fact that they are marginalised feeds directly into the trafficking of large numbers of their population around europe. this cycle of crime continues, with trafficked victims being used for crimes ranging from pick-pocketing to prostitution and large-scale benefit fraud. the scale of this problem was highlighted by the eu joint police investigation, operation golf. a raid in just one village in romania last year saw the arrest of 26 people responsible for the trafficking of 272 roma children from one village. the sooner the roma community are accepted and welcomed fully into communities and given opportunities to become full financial participants in society, the sooner they will be able to resist the predatory behaviour of the gangs that traffic them. the eu has much work to do and a duty to ensure that their rights are upheld.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am really grateful to ms gallo for raising this issue and for setting out so carefully and properly the challenge that we face in her introduction. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her careful but – from our point of view – rather unsatisfactory answer. i want to keep this dead simple. i have here a pile of books. they are not very pretty or wonderful books, but they are books. i love books and i will have a whole lot of real books on my christmas list this christmas. but why should it be that these books pay less vat than e-content? i can carry a whole library around on my e-reader. both of them are cultural content, but there is a huge difference in the vat to which they are subject. we talk about an internal market, we talk about a digital revolution. it seems to me that our member states have something to learn from what has happened in america in these terms. a pile of books or e-content. let us be modern, let us be equal.
the next item is the report by jan březina, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision concerning the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012 – 2013) (com(2011)0072 – c7-0077/2011 – 2011/0046(nle)) (a7-0360/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 17 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by wolfgang kreissl-dörfler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu support for the icc: facing challenges and overcoming difficulties (2011/2109(ini)) (a7-0368/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 17 november 2011).
the next item is the report by krzysztof lisek, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing the european parliament’s recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas on the negotiations of the eu-georgia association agreement (2011/2133(ini)) (a7-0374/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 17 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by mikael gustafsson, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament (2011/2151(ini)) (a7-0351/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 17 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the greens support the measures contained in the koumoutsakos report today, and welcome the opportunity we have for an agreement at first reading. it is necessary – as has been so eloquently pointed out by other speakers – to provide some interim funding so that proper allocations can start from 2013. as it happens, we were unable to secure the amount originally envisaged, but nevertheless there is eur 40 million available from unspent budget allocations. that money will go towards integrating maritime policy around the development of short sea shipping, the detection of illegal fishing, the integration of sea-basin strategies and maritime surveillance and, importantly, protection of the marine environment. we have particularly enjoyed working with the rapporteur. we now welcome the opportunity to work in partnership with other agencies, notably the european maritime safety agency with its safeseanet programme. colleagues, please use your vote later today to support this jolly good idea.
thank you for that positive end to the debate. i can only apologise for not being a greek in the chair. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by isabella lövin, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on combating illegal fishing at the global level – the role of the eu [2010/2210(ini)] - (a7-0362/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the cfp was only introduced in 1973, when the uk joined the common market. up to then, uk fishermen had looked after their fisheries so well, without all these regulations, that other profligate member states wanted a slice of our action. the result? illegal fishing. any system of complex rules and regulations produces cheats – that is human nature. now you want to duplicate our coastguard and to consider more rules to combat possible illegal recreational fishing. does the eu never stop meddling? to preserve fish stocks, member states must be responsible for their own fishing waters up to the 200-mile limit or the median line. bilateral arrangements would be up to them and they would have to protect their own fish stocks in their own interests, under their laws and their enforcement. norway does just that. stocks have recovered, especially the spawning stocks of several species – but then norway is not in the eu and does not have to obey its crazy rules. it bans discards, requiring that all fish caught be landed. meanwhile, eu stocks are seriously depleted. i know thought is being given to discards, but after 38 years of waste, will our stocks recover? as to combating illegal fishing globally, the eu’s discard policy is the greatest illegal fishing scandal of all! that – and licensing european fleets to raid the waters of the third world, reducing those people to poverty – is what i call illegal.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague ms lövin for the report and to assure her of my support for it. last week, i presented the commission with details of an innovative project being launched by marine scientists in northern ireland, who are about to begin work on an ecosystem approach to management within the irish sea. that process is far from simple. however, in the meantime, annual decisions will soon be made that will have far-reaching consequences for our fishermen. the commission has proposed significant cuts in a range of fishing opportunities for 2012, on the basis that the stocks concerned are ‘data poor’. we are told that the failed long-term cod recovery plan has to stay in place for at least another year, either because of a lack of resources to fix it or because the treaty denies us the flexibility to do so. the development of an integrated maritime policy is sensible but will take time, and in the meantime we risk ignoring the problems that are impacting upon my constituents and our seas today. turning to the question of combating illegal fishing on a global level, i will again highlight a problem on the eu’s doorstep; namely the illegal catches of mackerel by iceland and the faroe islands, as well as further dramatic autonomous increases in their catches during 2011. the faroe islands have issued mackerel licences to a number of third-country vessels, some of which are blacklisted by the north east atlantic fisheries commission. a solution must be found – but not one that rewards iceland and the faroes with a further substantial share of that stock.
mr president, my green group colleague ms lövin has contributed her expertise and commitment to this report and that is one of the reasons why – unusually for a fisheries committee report – it is being greeted with unanimity across this chamber. the report says that the eu, at least on paper, has armed itself with tools to combat illegal fishing, but we have to do more than that to persuade other regimes and other states. we have to be above reproach, and it further calls on the review of the common fisheries policy (cfp) to be used to create incentives for legal fishing. this is very important. incentives are absolutely crucial to successful fisheries management policy, and the current cfp has singularly failed to provide them. by contrast, the conservation credit scheme that is operating in scotland has government, industry and environmental ngos all working together to devise and implement successful management measures which, among other things, are radically reducing the wastage of discards. in my view, a cfp which threatens equal access to waters and resources will not help to encourage such initiatives, nor will it provide the necessary incentives to report illegal activity.
mr president, i rise as mep for east anglia to protest that the objectives discussed in the earlier debate on integrated maritime policy, as well as those in paragraph 12 of this report on combating illegal fishing, are fatally undermined by the uk closure of coastguard stations, including both walton and great yarmouth in my constituency. by definition, the sailing community travels between the uk, france, belgium and the netherlands and thus relies on adequate coastguard services on both sides of the channel and the north sea. from an east anglian perspective – given the need to serve the busy shipping routes to the ports of yarmouth, harwich, felixstowe and tilbury, as well as the economic importance of seaside tourism and the mass development of offshore wind farms – this is a disaster waiting to happen on a level with the gulf of mexico. britain has already withdrawn four rescue and fire-fighting tugs from the channel and has put the responsibility on france; a step which, according to my colleague ms grelier, is causing widespread anger in northern france. i call on the commission to investigate whether the british closure of coastguard stations breaches the principles of eu maritime policy and our country’s obligations to protect european marine protection sites in norfolk, suffolk and essex; and i call on the british government to think again, or it will have lost lives on its conscience.
mr president, the eagerness with which the uk was bundled into the eu’s predecessor in 1973 had nothing to do with our collective charm and charisma and everything to do with access to our fishing grounds. the eu is not content to have ruined our fishing fleet and halved our number of fishermen, but it is now turning its attention to criminalising our recreational sea anglers. the commission will decide by the end of 2012 whether recreational fishing can be regarded as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. recreational anglers catch a minuscule percentage of the total catch but, most important of all, recreational anglers are much more likely to return immature fish safely to the sea. the report calls for an end to flags of convenience. however, the 1991 ecj decision legalising quota-hopping legalised just that – a form of flags of convenience.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 and resumed at 12.00)
mr president, it is an amendment that reflects the facts really because it is worded, when you have it in your voting list: ‘notes the commission’s announcement of the conclusion of the negotiations of an eu-us pnr agreement which will be scrutinised by the european parliament in the light of its requirements set out in its resolutions of 5 may 2010 and 11 november 2010’. it was felt that the original wording here was simply out of date because the commission has announced the conclusion of the negotiations. i hope all groups can agree that this is merely a factually accurate statement of the position we are in.
mr president, the past 20 years have witnessed a juridical revolution. it has been carried out stealthily in plush conference venues, out from under the private eye, but it is a revolution. it has shifted power permanently and substantively away from elected national representatives to a global corpus of lawyers and human rights activitists. the tried and clearly understood precept that we have had since the treaty of westphalia – the idea that every state is responsible for its domestic affairs and that crimes are the responsibility of the state on whose territory they were committed – has been cast aside not only for cross-border issues, but also for domestic questions: gender equality, the rights of minorities, labour laws and so on. one might say, well how else are we going to bring to trial the bashirs and the miloševićs and the gadaffis and so on, but here one runs up against the brute reality: dictators ignore these conventions. they are applied only by liberal democracies. thus, having spent 300 years in europe clawing our slow and gruelling way towards the principle that laws ought to be made only by the people’s elected representatives, we are now, in a fit of absent-mindedness, discarding it.
mr president, in principle there seems to be some merit in developing an integrated eu maritime policy, but this report is not one that i could support in plenary today. i have reservations about the tone and the details contained in the report. in particular, it raises issues with respect to subsidiarity. i hope that when an integrated maritime policy comes before this parliament again, it will contain more value-added measures which will allow member states to make decisions where appropriate, with eu-wide policy being applied only where it offers real cross-border maritime solutions.
mr president, when we look at the eu-us relationship it is actually the world’s largest trade relationship. some estimates have got it at about usd 4 trillion in trade investment and sales. given that, in this time when we are all struggling around looking for ideas for growth, surely it would be a good idea if our two economies moved towards the idea that has been put forward by people on both sides of the atlantic – a transatlantic zero initiative, eliminating those tariff barriers in goods, and which has been estimated to add trade value of usd 120 billion and new economic growth of about usd 180 billion. but let us not stop there. let us now take the moral leadership in the world and show the rest of the world how trade can benefit citizens of all countries and ensure that we tackle the problems that we have in the global economy. let us tear down those barriers to trade. let us make sure that we can free the enterprises and have freedom of entrepreneurs across the world. let us make sure that we create jobs and growth for our citizens.
mr president, this vote reflects on the similarities and differences between the united states of america and the aspirate united states of europe, or use. the usa is democratic, free-trading, entrepreneurial and capitalist; the use is corporatist, protectionist, statist and interventionist. the usa are states of a federal country with one prevailing culture and speaking one language; the use is made up of nation states, very different to just states, and has a multitude of cultures and languages. the us has the dollar, a single currency that is still strong despite a debt of usd12 trillion. the use has a single currency on the point of collapse. and when americans have frequent referenda and elect even insurance commissioners and registers of deeds; the use puts soviet-style placemen, little honeckers at the head of its nation states. this statement may accentuate the similarities, but in truth the differences are plain to see.
mr president, the opportunity for transatlantic dialogue at the summit on 28 november 2011 needs to be utilised to the full. in today’s turmoil, the eu must be talking at all levels to its key partners around the world – never more so than with respect to regulating the financial markets and derivative products post the financial crisis of 2008, and implementing the decisions taken by g20. the summit dialogue needs to ensure that us politicians and regulators respect the need for parity in our financial services legislation. we need to make sure that, in the attempt to make our financial markets more secure, we do not begin to limit access on the flow of capital. likewise, the dodd-frank act needs to be interpreted in a non-protectionist way. extra-territoriality, equivalence and reciprocity are not essential, but recognition of comparable systems of regulation is, and we need to seek ways of acknowledging this. we must work to ensure the dodd-frank act and the eu’s european market infrastructure regulation (emir) and markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) fit together. closer cooperation between the eu and the us on financial services needs to continue, but the spirit of equals to prevent extra-territoriality battles needs to endure.
mr president, it is instructive to compare the american and european constitutions. the us constitution is 7 200 words long. the european, in the form of the lisbon treaty, is 78 000 words long. the us constitution is concerned with broad principles, such as the balance between federal and state jurisdictions; the european equivalent busies itself with such minutiae as policy on space exploration and the status of refugees. the american declaration of independence holds out the promise of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. the european equivalent – the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms – guarantees our right to strike action, affordable housing and free healthcare. the one is about the freedom of the individual, the other about the power of the state. all nations, all unions, grow according to the dna that was encoded at their conception. it was the good fortune of the american republic to be founded in a popular revolt against a remote government and therefore to impregnate its institutions with a sympathy for the maximum dispersal of power. the european union’s tragedy is that it was founded from the opposite imperative. line 1 of article 1 of the treaty of rome commits us to establish an ever closer union. our present doom was ordained from the first.
mr president, i can agree with syed kamall and kay swinburne on the issues that they discussed, and in fact i would add that eu-us relations are just vital. they are essential if we are to do anything about fighting global regulatory arbitrage. we are each other’s biggest investors, and if we use the oecd study of may 2005 as a basis for lifting the non-tariff barriers that mr kamall talked about, and apply best regulatory practices, we could see our economies grow by as much as 3-6% gni year on year. that is still something very much worth going for – a growth agenda not just on the supply side, but that also has to look at jobs and how to create them. we forget this at our peril. the bruce stokes paper recently produced on growth and jobs also helps to promote this philosophy of backing industry not just on competitivity but also, vitally, on attracting investment. governments at eu level and the commission, along with the us, need not just to manage debt reduction but also investment policy and incentives to job creation. this should not be done artificially but with the support of, and in line with, commercial and scientific research and development, specifically in the sme market. this is perhaps our route forward.
mr president, the internet has become a vital medium for rural and urban citizens alike. in rural wales it is important that broadband speeds be improved, as it is for the whole of the nation. however, just as important will be ensuring that no artificial blocks on download speeds are imposed by service providers. i look forward to the report by berec, analysing net neutrality and its advice to national regulators on dealing with anti-competitive internet traffic management. enabling rural wales to benefit from net access for tv, telephony and video downloads will have a major effect on our citizens. i also welcome in this report the additions by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection concerning transparency requirements, quality of service and information on actual delivery speeds. i welcome this resolution and hope that the full benefits of the net can be experienced by all eu citizens.
mr president, i am conscious that these sessions have been growing longer in the last couple of months, so i wish to thank you and the staff and interpreters, on behalf of all the members, for your patience. during the last commission, commissioner verheugen conducted a survey of the costs of european regulation. this found that the net impact was eur 600 billion per year. according to the commission’s own figures, the benefits of the single market are eur 120 billion a year. so, according to the commission – and it should know if anybody does – the single market is five times more expensive to business than the benefits it generates. of course, the way to reverse that balance is to scrap regulations and to cut tax, but one cannot cut tax as long as one harmonises it. tax harmonisation will always be upwards for the most basic of reasons, which is that the main constraint fiscally on a government is external competition. one can raise tax rates up to a certain point, and then the money starts going abroad. but if one finds, through the eu, a mechanism to get around that by exporting one’s costs to one’s competitors then, of course, tax rates as a whole will rise and the continent as a whole will fall further and further behind in the world. the one thing we could be doing is moving the rocks aside so that the grass can grow.
mr president, fish stocks are depleting, our fishing ports are closing, fish markets are closing, stocks of fish are getting smaller, the fish themselves that we catch are getting smaller and therefore it is vitally important this report goes through and the commission accept it and act on it, and that was why i voted in favour of it. if we allow illegal fishing to continue, then of course it is a global issue. the seas are depleting right across the world and therefore all actions must be taken in a global manner. i follow my fellow colleague, mr kelly, who talked about discards – a huge and utter waste of a valuable material. why on earth are we allowing this to continue? i think the commission must look seriously at the whole common fisheries policy. we must put in draconian measures to stop those who buy the illegal fish and then sell them on the market. finally, i would just like to thank the rapporteur for mentioning the gsp. as vice-chair of the international trade committee, gsp is a big issue; it does affect fishing and it affects all trade agreements throughout the european union. i look forward to following that report and looking at the fishing.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the icc. despite the strong level of support provided by the eu and its member states to the court, much remains to be done on the political and diplomatic level, as well as on a practical level to help the court overcome the current challenges and difficulties it currently faces. closer monitoring of the constant implementation of icc clauses in agreements with third countries, as well as the impact of its political statements and declarations, would undoubtedly strengthen the eu’s messages and standpoints on the icc issues vis-à-vis the eu partner countries and organisations, notably the african union. the eu’s political and human rights dialogues have to consequently raise the icc and international justice issues in general whenever appropriate. the eu and its member states should have timely and well coordinated joint responses to react to instances of non-cooperation with the court, possibly through agreeing on an internal code of conduct in such cases.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the integrated maritime policy advocates an integrated approach to the management and governance of the oceans, seas and coasts, and fosters interaction between all sea-related policies in the eu. the purpose of the proposed funding, eur 50 million, is to continue the work undertaken since 2007.
in writing. − i could not support amendments 34, 35d, 36, 31, 32, 33 to the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities, because while these amendments appear to represent a budget cut of eur 2.46 billion from spending on nuclear programmes, in fact the money is already budgeted and the amendments would merely redirect the money away from nuclear research to the green agenda. instead of limiting the waste of taxpayers’ money, this amendment would simply waste it elsewhere. i abstained also in the final vote on the legislative resolution as, in the context of the ongoing budget negotiations, the financing of iter has not yet been confirmed.
in writing. − i could not support amendments 34, 35d, 36, to the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities, because while these amendments appear to represent a budget cut of eur 2.46 billion from spending on nuclear programmes, in fact the money is already budgeted and the amendments would merely redirect the money away from nuclear research to the green agenda. instead of limiting the waste of taxpayers’ money, this amendment would simply waste it elsewhere. i abstained also in the final vote on the legislative resolution as, in the context of the ongoing budget negotiations, the financing of iter has not yet been confirmed
in writing. − i voted for this report in which the rapporteur is of the opinion that in the aftermath of the fukushima disaster europe needs more nuclear research and development (r&d), not less. regardless of the fact that some member states have decided to phase out the use of nuclear energy, it is important to continue nuclear r&d at european level in order to enhance the safety of nuclear fission, to operate existing facilities, waste management, dismantling and decommissioning processes and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine, as well as to enhance nuclear security (nuclear safeguards, non-proliferation, combating illicit trafficking and nuclear forensics).
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the eu and the us administration to develop and launch a joint transatlantic initiative for jobs and growth, including a roadmap for promoting trade and investment.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the commission, together with berec in cooperation with member states, closely to monitor the development of traffic-management practices and interconnection agreements, in particular in relation to blocking and throttling of, or excessive pricing for, voip and file sharing, as well as anti-competitive behaviour and excessive degradation of quality, as required by the eu ‘telecoms’ regulatory framework. it calls further on the commission to ensure that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against, impair or degrade the ability of any person to use a service to access, use, send, post, receive or offer any content, application or service of their choice, irrespective of source or target.
in writing. − by voting in favour of this resolution the european parliament took a positive step towards ensuring that eu telecoms rules are properly enforced to keep the internet open and neutral. i am in favour of the resolution’s proposals to monitor internet traffic management practices, which would contribute to a more open and neutral internet. the resolution calls on the commission to provide eu-wide guidelines that will have a positive effect on ensuring that eu telecoms rules are properly enforced. the commission, along with member states and the body of european regulators for electronic communications, must be called on to closely monitor the development of traffic management practices. this will ensure that traffic management practices are not used for anti-competitive purposes.
in writing. − i am proud to have co-sponsored this resolution which calls unequivocally on eu countries to oppose the draft protocol which seeks to weaken the ban on cluster munitions. less than 2 years after the convention was passed and with 16 000 civilian victims this year – including in libya – there is no case to weaken the ban and every reason not to do so. allowing the use of cluster munitions produced after 1980 will not save the lives of the 98% of civilians who are the victims of these weapons. under labour, britain was a leading proponent worldwide of the ban. i have seen the destruction of the munitions myself at shoeburyness in my constituency. and i am ashamed that britain, under a conservative-led government, is seeking to reverse this position.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the member states not to adopt, endorse or subsequently ratify any protocol to the ccw allowing for the use of cluster munitions, which are prohibited under the ccm, and calls on the council and the member states to act accordingly at the fourth ccw review conference to be held from 14 to 25 november 2011 in geneva.
in writing. − i am explaining the vote on behalf of the ecr group. we support the work that has led to the successful conclusion of the convention on cluster munitions (ccm), just as we have fully supported the ottawa process on banning anti-personnel landmines, balancing the operational requirements of our armed forces with humanitarian concerns. however, the resolution is misleading (e.g. it does not make clear that the use of cluster munitions in libya was by gaddafi’s forces against misrata), exaggerates the effect of a proposed protocol vi and seeks to endorse the federalising impact of the treaty of lisbon and ignore the rights of sovereign national governments by calling for eu accession to the ccm. the ecr therefore abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on eu member states to oppose the draft protocol that seeks to weaken the ban on cluster munitions. since the convention was passed in 2008 there has been no case at all to weaken the ban on cluster munitions. these weapons have had a severe impact on civilians, causing a large number of deaths and serious injuries and long-lasting socio-economic problems. 16 000 civilians were victims of these weapons this year and allowing the use of cluster munitions produced after 1980 will not save the lives of 98 per cent of the civilians killed.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which considers that the vat rates applicable to books illustrate the shortcomings of the current legislation; while member states may apply reduced vat rates for the supply of books on all physical means, e-books are subject to a standard rate of at least 15%. this discrimination is untenable given the potential growth of this segment of the market.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and encourage georgia to pursue reforms that improve the business climate, its tax collection capacity and its contractual dispute settlement mechanism, while promoting corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. it encourages georgia to invest in its infrastructure, especially with regard to public services, and to fight existing inequalities, particularly in rural areas. it also encourages cooperation between experts from the eu member states and their counterparts in georgia in order to foster the implementation of reforms in the country and to share on a daily basis the best practices of eu governance.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which promotes gender mainstreaming. the ultimate goal of gender mainstreaming is to change the nature and institutions of the mainstream to be more reflective of the needs, aspirations and experiences of all society, both women and men. gender mainstreaming can be said to question the gender neutrality of institutions since they may reproduce and contribute to gender inequality through their internal assumptions, working procedures and activities.
in writing. − the gustaffson report focuses on the gender balance within this institution; i believe it sends out a positive message about equality. i have always made it clear that i do not believe in prescriptive and patronising targets and quotas for women that come from europe, we women deserve better than that. but i and the ecr group are fully committed to raising the problem of the lack of women in the top posts in this parliament. as elected members we are law makers, our staff both, political and non-political are involved in the policies we make; it is right that we have women in the top positions of this parliament. two days ago the british prime minister announced that he was going to appoint a senior female adviser to assess the impact of every government policy on women. this appointment highlights just how committed the british government is to ensuring gender equality throughout all policies made by the uk government. the ecr group is strongly opposed to any budget increase at this delicate time for europe’s economy, therefore we asked for split votes on paragraphs 2g, 4 and 6 – we voted against those references to the budget and funding.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. iuu fishing undermines efforts to conserve and manage fish stocks in all capture fisheries. when confronted with iuu fishing, national and regional fisheries management organisations can fail to achieve management goals. this situation leads to the loss of both short and long-term social and economic opportunities and to negative effects on food security and environmental protection. iuu fishing can lead to the collapse of a fishery or seriously impair efforts to rebuild stocks that have already been depleted. existing international instruments addressing iuu fishing have not been effective due to a lack of political will, priority, capacity and resources to ratify or accede to and implement them.
in writing. − i welcome today’s report which calls for the eu to lead the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the only way to deal with this issue is by taking international action, and the eu needs to take an active role in order to protect eu fishermen and fishing industries. illegal fishing is extremely difficult to regulate. i welcome calls to close markets to illegal seafood and to impose sanctions on states that do not meet international obligations. putting a stop to illegal fishing now is vital – fish stocks are dangerously low and the threat of illegal fishing could prove disastrous for many people who make their living in this industry. i fully support proposals for better coordination between countries and believe that the eu needs to work with big players such as japan, the us and china to see how this can be stamped out on a global level.
mr president, i welcome this resolution but i want to make one correction. iran is not an islamic republic: it is a brutal dictatorship that uses and abuses and perverts religion for its own barbaric ends. this dictatorship also targets and persecutes people who are muslim as well as other religions. we have stood by and we have watched people hung by their neck, young men of 18 hung by their neck solely because they were homosexual. and still they target homosexuals and transgender people, and deny them access to health, goods, services, housing, education. but i am optimistic, because despite these crackdowns, despite this brutality, men and women continually rise up against this regime, and their hope should give us hope and our voices must speak for them.
mr president, we as europeans have a responsibility to stop the export of any technology which is being used to oppress anyone in the world, but particularly in iran. whether it is spyware or other technology or other software, if we can track its source and can track it to europe, then we must take action to stop it. we will not see large-scale shootings in the streets like we have seen in libya or syria. the regime in iran is too cunning to expose its brutality in this way. the state security apparatus is one of the most effective and cruel in its abuse of the people. therefore, allowing any form of assistance, even if it appears neutral – such as technology to track protestors – is simply going to make us all complicit in their repression.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, viktor uspaskich is a rare phenomenon in lithuania. he is a russian speaker who is successful in business and in politics. other political parties, who are threatened by his success, have started a case against him, which to me looks like persecution. they are using the state to turn a civil offence about his party’s accounts into a criminal prosecution. when our committee on legal affairs looked first at his immunity, the case seemed clear and the house voted to lift it. however, since viktor’s appeal, new evidence has come to light; not just the wikileaks cables that mr rapkay mentioned, which show former prime minister brazauskas admitting that high-powered people falsely accuse our colleagues, but also now the memoirs of president adamkus, confirming what many claimed all along, that five years ago the security services pressed the president to pervert the course of justice against our colleague. that is why this time in committee five members voted to support mr uspaskich’s appeal and only nine voted to reject. i contend that viktor uspaskich is the target of a politically motivated campaign to force him and his party out of frontline politics and i call on colleagues to vote today to restore his immunity.
madam president, there is no doubt that, other things being equal, the european council would indeed like to maximise economic growth throughout the union, but decision-taking involves not just what we would like, but the priority we give to each desired end. i am afraid the european council has greater priorities: to preserve the eurozone and fiscal and political union as ends in themselves, as well as to save the euro. the whole current debate about bailouts for greece and other countries is as though the purpose were a charitable one. it is not. it is not about providing help for the greek economy, but about sacrificing the greek economy for the integrity and prestige of the eurozone. if greece and other ailing countries were allowed to withdraw from the zone and revert to their own currencies, the value of those currencies would fall, reducing the price of their exports – visible and invisible – such as tourism, and bring about an export-led boom. whilst their debt burdens would increase, there will be default anyway, inside or outside of the zone.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i had the pleasure of spending my summer holidays in croatia and seeing first hand the level of prosperity and social progress in that beautiful country. as it has negotiated all eu chapters for accession, my group, the ecr, will indeed give its assent tomorrow to croatia becoming the 28th member of the european union. croatia has led its balkan neighbours in the reform process in the post-yugoslavian space, for example even imprisoning a former prime minister for corruption, thus demonstrating a firm commitment to the copenhagen criteria. however, there is still plenty of work to be done, particularly in the area of fighting organised crime and the return of internally displaced persons (idps). croatia must also ensure it cooperates fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) and protect relevant witnesses so it can put behind it the dark side of its recent history in conflict. as a small but prosperous mediterranean country, croatia’s accession will pose few problems, particularly if temporary derogations are in place with regard to mass labour migration across the european union, which would of course put pressure on already stretched public resources, particularly in my country. indeed so far, current visa liberalisation measures for croats travelling within the schengen area has not resulted in large numbers seeking to abuse this concession, and sadly balkan criminals will move freely around europe whatever measures are in place. croatia will now be the second former yugoslav country to join the community after slovenia and i express my hope that its former yugoslav neighbours of montenegro –on which i am the european parliament’s standing rapporteur and with whom croatia seeks to resolve a small boundary dispute – and macedonia, will similarly soon open negotiations. though the timing for eu membership for all other western balkan countries beyond croatia is far from clear, this prospect remains the essential glue which drives their reforms and anchors them all in peace and democracy. once croatia becomes an eu member state – once a referendum is passed and all the member state parliaments ratify it – it in turn must support its former regional foes in their accession to the european union, in particular serbia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, in my country for matters sub judice it is customary for politicians not to comment, but of course i believe in a fair trial for everybody. i would also recognise that dr sanader played a major part as prime minister in actually paving the way for eventual croatian accession to the eu. he is an extremely able politician but, if he is guilty of the charges of corruption and embezzling public funds, he must pay the criminal price and go to jail. that is very clear to everybody. but that is up to the courts to decide, not this parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i recently visited croatia; i wanted to find out whether a proper national debate was going on, whether there was a fair campaign. what did i find? well i found that the eu is doing everything it can to bribe the political class in croatia. doing it quite well too. already the eu has given eur 320 million to croatia in what is called pre-accession aid; the eu has just spent a million euros on a blatant propaganda advertising campaign telling croatia that the eu is their only hope. cleverly, you have even given jobs to croatians – highly paid jobs to croatians in the european parliament and in the european commission – just to show them how well off they – the ruling class – will be if they join. and you have got eu flags flying on official buildings all over the country, to give the impression that it is a done deal. you have some willing helpers because the old communists are still there in croatia. they still hold all the positions of power and they will all become personally enormously wealthy if croatia joins the european union. there is an even more sinister side to this because there is not a free press in croatia. there is no national debate going on at all. indeed a prize has been offered – hrk 10 000 – if anybody can find an article in any croatian newspaper suggesting that joining is not the right thing to do. the whole campaign is bent, corrupt and distorted. we have seen this before from the european union, but i think it is happening on a scale in croatia that is worse than i have seen before. this country has for nearly a thousand years sought independence and for 20 years they have had independence. they got out of the failed political experiment that was yugoslavia. if they vote to join the european union, they are voting to rejoin a new yugoslavia, a failing political experiment that will implode. i hope there is, in the last month or two, a debate in croatia. sadly, i doubt it.
madam president, it is 20 years since croatia declared its independence, following a 95% backing in a referendum, and it fought to defend that independence, its territory and its people. many died and were seriously wounded in defence of those interests. it is tragic that croatia is now about to sign away that independence to the european union. to ensure its entry, croatia had to pass quantities of legislation enforcing social liberalism, hand its generals over to the international criminal court, as though they were sacrifices to a jealous god, and sign up to economic liberalism that will prevent its government from defending the jobs of its people. that the treaty will be signed before the people have spoken in the referendum shows a contempt for democracy, a contempt for the croatian people and especially a contempt for those who died in croatia’s war of independence. the government of croatia is not content to have used – or rather misused – public funds to pay for propaganda dressed up as information to skew the result of the referendum. it is treating the referendum result as though it were a mere formality. but of course, if there should be a ‘no’ vote, there can always be another referendum, and another, and another, until they get the right answer. that is the european union way.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last week germany could not sell one third of its bond issue, yesterday the italian government paid nearly 8% interest and today two million people are striking in britain even though the uk public pension black hole is the biggest in europe. right now this parliament and every parliament should be looking at how to help growth, remove red tape and get businesses moving, but instead we have been in back rooms arguing about just when an economic dialogue would fit into parliament’s timetable and who should be on the guest list. of course countries should consider how their economic policies affect others, but meps are now asking for a new treaty to give the european parliament a vote on economic guidelines. this will not decrease the resentment of many of our citizens when they see decisions being taken in faraway places, and it will not help our businesses to grow. members, we really must stop fiddling whilst rome cannot borrow!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by charles goerens, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (00059/2011 – c7-0379/2011 – 2010/0059(cod)) (a7-0403/2001),– the report by helmut scholz, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (00056/2011 – c7-0376/2011 – 2009/0059(cod)) (a7-0401/2011), – the report by kinga gál and barbara lochbihler, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (00058/2011 – c7-0378/2011 – 2009/0060b(cod)) (a7-0404/2011), and– the report by gay mitchell, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (00057/2011 – c7-0377/2011 – 2009/0060a(cod)) (a7-0402/2011).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, can i begin by saying that although we are dealing with the legality of the regulations, we must not forget that we are debating the 10% of the european budget which the eu commits to its relations with the rest of the world and to the european initiative on democracy and human rights (eidhr), in which i have a direct interest. this is the money which we give to the victimised, the oppressed and the threatened of the world, very often against the wishes of the governments of their own countries who are the perpetrators of human rights abuse. commissioner, on the legalities i add two things: first i fully support my colleagues mrs gál and mrs lochbihler in saying that the hard fought interinstitutional agreement will win codecision for this parliament on strategic decisions post-2014, including on the financial allocation of different priority areas with minimum percentages. this must be honoured. secondly, both before and after 2014, we have developed an informal but important strategic dialogue between parliament and commission on the projects supported by the eidhr. for the people concerned, if their projects become publicly known it could lead to their lives being at risk. we found a way to balance confidence and scrutiny and i hope the commissioner tonight will express his confidence that this arrangement will continue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chairman of the committee i want first of all to particularly thank both commissioner dalli who participated energetically in the forum and made the closing speech, and also commissioner barnier who i know tonight is in malta in his campaign to get round every single member state and discuss the single market. i am sure that louis grech is with him as well. the lessons which are clearly apparent from the success of the single market forum – and i think that everyone believes it was a great success – are the fact that completing the single market is fundamentally an exercise in partnership and teamwork. it is not something which can be delivered by technical regulation from brussels, as cristian buşoi said. it is not something that can be delivered by one commissioner on his own. neither is it something which can be delivered by member states working on their own, because the lessons about making the single market work are that member states have to work much more closely together and to exchange information to look after consumers better; to have the sort of dispute resolution system on line that you, commissioner, have just proposed. that became clearly apparent from the way in which we worked together to promote this forum. it is a shame that the presidency is not here, because the polish presidency played an absolutely crucial role in this. they put it at the top of their priorities and it is good, as a number of colleagues have said, that they reported back to the summit about it. indeed, the completion of the single market act was the top item at the growth summit on 23 october. i think that the energy behind that and behind the single market forum contributed to this. my concluding point is this. the biggest single issue that remained for me in participating in all the discussions with people who are energetic and enthusiastic about the single market, is how little we are communicating the benefits, and particularly the opportunities, throughout the european union, so thank you commissioner, for your great work on the internet that is enabling my committee to get our information across to citizens about the single market.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, today we remember with great sadness the many thousands of innocent lives claimed by this terrible wasteful disease. shocking statistics show that there is still no decrease in the number of new infections within the eu. that is not good enough. hiv is an epidemic that affects all member states and we have a great responsibility to those living with hiv and aids. later today i hope that parliament will adopt the resolution on the eu’s global response to hiv and aids. the resolution looks at all aspects of the eu’s contribution to fighting hiv and aids, including funding for research to find a vaccine. we need to deal with a disease which knows no borders, no race, no age and no gender. however, this is a disease we can control, especially through testing, and i am confident that one day we will find a cure. for now, we have to raise public awareness in this battle, support civil groups in their work and continue sharing research. i am happy to say this resolution goes a long way towards these aims. the ecr group joins with all those across the globe in memory of friends, relatives and loved ones who have died as a result of contracting aids. we stand fully behind the drive to beat hiv and aids and to improve the lives of all those who live with it, and we reaffirm our commitment to this fight.
madam president, the number of people living with hiv in the united kingdom has hit an estimated 91 500 in 2010, which is an increase of 5 000 on the previous year. this figure is predicted to reach 100 000 by 2012. in my own constituency of northern ireland, more people than ever are living with hiv, with an average of two people per week being newly diagnosed as hiv positive. while that number remains relatively low, figures released this week show a rise of 20%, with the majority of new cases being diagnosed among men. in light of these figures and the world health organisation’s confirmation that 33.4 million people worldwide live with hiv, including 2.1 million children, it is my belief that education throughout member states is vital for prevention, which, alongside early diagnosis and access to treatment, can play an essential part in limiting the spread of hiv. it is time to eradicate people’s fear of being tested for the hiv virus. due to the stigma and fear attached to an hiv positive diagnosis, people are coming forward for testing after the point at which treatment for their infection should have begun, which greatly worsens their prognosis. the advances in hiv treatment in the last 30 years since the virus emerged have been massive, but too many people still test late and fail to benefit.
in writing. – with today being world aids day, it is quite fitting that the parliament should vote on the motion for resolution on the eu’s global response to hiv/aids. despite efforts having been made to reduce the number of new infections within the eu and neighbouring countries, progress on the 2009 commission strategy which aimed at doing this, has been unsatisfactory. i am quite alarmed that an estimate for the european centre for disease control and prevention has revealed that around 30% of hiv positive people are still not diagnosed. furthermore, these undiagnosed patients have three and a half times higher risk of transmitting hiv than those who have been diagnosed. what’s more, those that have been diagnosed with hiv are still presenting themselves late for care and consequently progress to late stages of infection before they are diagnosed and can start treatment. it is therefore imperative that there are better resources allocated to ensure fair access to hiv prevention, testing, treatment support and medical research, along with continuing implementing measures to address the continued discrimination and stigma attached to those infected with hiv. it is therefore only right that i voted in favour of this motion for resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate president draghi on his new role and wish him well in these turbulent times. however, the debate currently raging between chancellor merkel and president sarkozy and others concerning the future role of the ecb needs mentioning. above all else, the independence of the ecb needs to be upheld, particularly in times of crisis. credibility is key. if euro zone members want the ecb to act as the lender of last resort, they should legitimise this role as soon as possible. the ecb should not be a political football for point scoring between national politicians. perhaps, as well as looking at the measures other institutions should or should not be taking, member states themselves should be looking to get their own houses in order. i include euro zone and non-euro zone members in this plea. we passed the six-pack on economic governance two plenary sessions ago. member states should be looking to implement it as soon as they can, introducing credible and robust measures suited to their own countries to bring their budget deficits back down to acceptable levels. credibility really is key.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i hope i may call you ‘shipmate’ in private! i would like to welcome the president of the bank and to thank him for turning up, even if nobody else has. i have read this report, unlike most of my colleagues probably: power to suspend credit ratings, a european monetary fund to exclude the imf, a single european treasury issuing eurobonds and a single european finance minister, all of which of course would be unelected. it is a manifesto for european economic dictatorship, which is why i rather suspect the british conservative party will welcome it with open arms. if they do not vote for it they will abstain in a marked manner, as they usually do, and talk a good story back in london. the president of the bank reminds me a little bit of the poem by siegfried sassoon, the great war poet: ‘he’s a cheery old card’ said harry to jack, ‘as they slogged up to arras with rifle and pack, but he did for them both with his plan of attack’.
mr president, ms gáll-pelcz mentioned the purchase of risky assets and i am a little bit confused. i am a professional economist. with whose money would you buy these risky assets? with whose money? where would you get the money? is it from old age pensioners in yorkshire – my constituency – on gbp 100 per week? where are you going to get the money to save this already failed project?
it would be amazing if mr bloom were not being provocative!
mr president, i certainly do not want it to fail but there is a feeling in the house that we have been hit by an asteroid or a tsunami, that this is not a problem of our own making. the reason the country and the european union is in a shambles over the euro is of our own making: we have brought this upon ourselves. it is not an act of god. when will this house wake up to the fact we have done it to ourselves? wake up, i beg you!
we will take that as a question. (laughter)
thank you for a wonderfully concise reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by francesca balzani, josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee in the framework of the 2012 budgetary procedure (13110/2011 – c7-0247/2011 – 17470/2011 – 2011/2020(bud)) (a7-0414/2011).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, parliament seems reluctantly to have accepted a 2012 budget with an increase below 2%, effectively less than 2011 in real terms, but what an opportunity has been missed for parliament to show that it is in the real world and getting to grips with economic reality. do we honestly think that funds have been well spent in the past by the european union or that they will be well spent in the future? across europe governments are having to cut their budgets to overcome massive deficits while desperately trying to induce economic growth. meanwhile, the european union’s appetite just seems to grow. this budget should have seen major substantive cuts, with funds returned to the treasuries of our countries. all the eu’s efforts should be focused on economic growth, on competition, and indeed on areas such as research and development. instead, over the years it has accrued more and more areas of competence where frankly it has no business. there are whole swathes of activity that the european union could cut. we could have set an example with parliament’s own budget, admittedly only a small part of the overall budget but nevertheless significant, costing some eur 1.6 billion a year. new direction, the think-tank, has identified cuts that could easily have been made – a quarter of the budget could be cut, some eur 400 million could be saved by this parliament without affecting the core roles of this house. the driving force in parliament’s costs has been the massive inflation of parliament’s bureaucracy, out of all proportion to the number of meps. parliament owns or rents some 62 buildings. we see no way at the moment in which they seem to be cutting back. it is time for the european union to end excess.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european parliament and the commission’s demand for a 5% increase for the 2012 budget was ridiculous, but the council’s acceptance of a real 2% rise is a slap in the face for taxpayers in europe. in a doomed pursuit of its lisbon agenda the eu has squandered more than one trillion euros of taxpayers’ money. i say the number again: one trillion euros. funds are given to the commission which fails to properly control their use and yet it always comes back to us for more. the present economic and financial situation in europe is without a doubt a reflection of the abject failure in the use of funds. while this wasteful spree goes on in brussels, mr osborne in the uk has announced further budget cuts. so i tell the government in the uk today: no, mr hague, the eu budget is not under control; no, mr cameron, a 2% rise is not a freeze. for goodness sake, stop sending more british taxpayers’ money to the european union.
mr president, like other colleagues i also want to thank the two rapportuers for the tremendous job they have done in putting this budget together. i first of all want to say a few words on the general budget, before going on to the european parliament’s budget. in terms of the general budget, i would say that i support the agreement which we reached at conciliation, but also that i have some concerns. i am particularly concerned that in conciliation we reached an agreement on the budget which does not allow enough funds to go to structural funds in the future, and that this will have particular implications for regions and countries across the european union such as wales. in wales we benefit greatly from structural funds, and if there is not enough money for structural funds in 2012, the blame will lie with the council. the council should understand and recognise that structural funds are an important part of creating jobs and growth in the european union and if we do not have enough money to fund those structural funds, the council, as i said, should accept the blame. in terms of the european parliament’s budget, which is perhaps my main responsibility, i believe parliament has done its bit in terms of the budget. parliament has accepted savings of around eur 74 million – savings in interpretation, translation etc. importantly, members of this parliament have accepted savings as well, in terms of accepting a freeze in the office allowance and a cut in the travel budget. i believe in future we can do even more to make further savings. for me, the important message of this budget is that this parliament recognises our priorities. we recognise that our priorities should be in putting money into jobs and growth – things like structural funds – while at the same time making savings where we possibly can.
mr president, i just want to make a very important point of clarification. if one reads the notes to the vote it is suggested i have signed the request for split votes with madam záborská and others. this is not the case. i have signed the resolution and nothing else and i have signed that on behalf of the s&d group. furthermore, i congratulate you, president, and everybody else for wearing the red ribbon to remember those who have died of an aids- or hiv- related illness and those who are currently living with or affected by it. furthermore, can i ask the commission if it will now unfreeze the funds of the global fund to fight aids so that we can continue this important work?
mr president, i wonder where it comes from, this idea that the way to get rich is by receiving subsidies? it is not true of individuals and it is not true of nations. if it were true, greece would now be the wealthiest country in the eu, and there would be angry, impoverished, penurious german crowds protesting about the bail-out that they were getting from athens. but of course, as we have seen in the european union, the reverse is true; the effect of receiving large subsidies is in fact deleterious to your gdp. the reason for that is that among states, as among individuals, people will eventually begin to arrange their affairs around qualifying for the hand out. just as within a nation, welfare can be debilitating to the recipient, so among nations the same principle pertains. excessive intervention at eu level, excessive spending, was the cause of our problem. it is not going to be the solution.
mr president, today we approved the eu budget for 2012, agreeing to an increase in spending of 2% and this actually represented a victory for member states and taxpayers over this parliament and the commission. hard though it is to believe, the commission called for an increase of 4.3% and the parliament wanted an increase of 5.3% – this at a time when national governments are having to increase taxes and cut expenditure at home. could there be any better illustration of how detached both the commission and this parliament have become from the real world? in my view, even a 2% increase is too high; we should cut the eu budget and save our taxpayers’ money. rather than asking for increases in funds, the commission should concentrate on spending wisely the money it already receives.
mr president, could i too seek to back the budget as agreed today. i welcome the deal which has been found between the council and parliament for next year’s budget which now reflects the reality of tough budgetary decisions being taken at national level right across europe. the european union has the responsibility to share the burden of the economic crisis and take part in the joint effort towards budget austerity and responsible spending. for this reason i support the 2% overall increase decided today, which is way below the original budget bid of 5% by the commission and 5% by parliament. it was the right thing to do. it is the only realistic way forward with the eu annual budget; i welcome my colleagues’ support in parliament and i congratulate the colleagues who negotiated this deal last week. it is a good decision and one which reflects well on this parliament.
mr president, on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, we voted in favour of this report because we had no guarantees that alternative sources of funding and financing would be found. furthermore, we cannot fight our interinstitutional fights on the back of the world’s poorest. the package is a compromise, agreed by the european parliament as part of the conciliation team, and we need to be seen as reliable partners. the non-approval of the dci banana accompanying measures could well mean the loss of the declaration which was agreed as part of that package and which contains an improved position for parliament in including delegated acts in the future financing instruments. finally, we regret that the council was not willing to accommodate further and that this agreement does not create a precedent for future negotiations on the instruments, for which delegated acts will have to be included.
mr president, it is difficult not to derive a certain wry amusement from the way in which those in this chamber who are loudest in their condemnation of colonialism and imperialism are quite happy to sign up to precisely that ideology when it is the european union pushing causes which they happen to favour: anti-discrimination or more access to contraception or local federations on a multinational model in mimicry of the eu or whatever it is. just two questions. first of all, given what is happening in europe, do you really think we have this money? secondly, if you look at it from the point of view of the peoples in those more waxing and virile countries when they cast their eyes at this cramped and declining customs union, why do you think they should take our advice on any subject?
mr president, two weeks ago on the day he announced his candidacy for the croatian elections, aleksandar saša radović, a longstanding veteran anti-corruption campaigner was arrested. he had announced his candidacy in the name of croatia 21st century, an anti-corruption party, which stands for the dismantling of the crony state economy there. he has written several books exposing malfeasance in high places and although, of course, i do not know the circumstances exactly around his arrest, it does seem highly suspicious and it sends out a signal to all those who are challenging vested interests in zagreb. when i visited croatia earlier this year, i was saddened by how many of the brave and patriotic people of that beautiful country came to me and said that they saw eu membership as an antidote to domestic corruption. it was heartbreaking to have to say that in fact their fraudsters would find a whole new field of operation at european level with far greater sums at their disposal. this is now a judicial process. but i have to say the national parliament now being elected in croatia is going to be the one from which we draw observer members to this house prior to the 2014 european election. surely there is a case for some international scrutiny in the face of what looks prima facie like a political arrest.
mr president, i welcome this excellent report. the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of it. it is absolutely right that we have a holistic approach. i want to point out that women’s sexual health and reproductive rights are vital. there needs to be access to contraception and access to emergency contraception, as well as to safe and legal abortions where necessary. hiv prevention and awareness is vital, and therefore the emphasis on education programmes is welcomed. we must also recognise the enormous positive developments that have been made. in this respect, as i said at the beginning of the debate, we need to call on the commission to unfreeze the funds for the global fund on aids and hiv. unlike a previous british speaker, i wish to say that the promotion and defence of universal human rights are not colonialism: they are the tools and the aspirations of all civilised societies.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. for the 2012 budget, additional expenditure, beyond the ceilings of headings 1a and 4 is required, and the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement. the amounts to be mobilised are as follows: eur 30.75 million for the eu 2020 strategy under heading 1a; eur 208.67 million for the european neighbourhood policy instrument under heading 4.
in writing. − i have voted against the 2012 eu budget. whilst i welcome the significant reductions between this budget and previous proposals from this parliament, i believe that there are still substantial savings and efficiencies that could be made. at a time when uk public sector workers find their wage increases capped at 1%, increases in the eu budget are unfair and unaffordable.
in writing. − i voted for the 2012 budget.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal because i do not support an increase in expenditure for the 2011 budget.
in writing. − i voted for this mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by the fall in demand for electrical equipment for cars. the decline in car manufacturing, combined with the impossibility of further reducing production costs and/or access to credit, resulted in the closure of krombert & schubert portugal, lda and the lear production plant in guarda. the closure of leoni wiring systems viana, lda was due to the combination of a difficult economic situation due to the crisis and the relocation of the production plant to morocco.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the waiver of the immunity of georgios toussas.
in writing. − i voted for the waiver of the immunity of luigi de magistris but of course without prejudice to his guilt or otherwise, which is for a court to decide.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal because i consider that the thrust of the proposal is sensible and that most elements are immediately clear. i agree that legal clarity and certainty should be ensured as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering instruments. i also support the view that appropriate monitoring of financial engineering instruments is necessary; however, i am of the view that additional reporting obligations of the member states should be limited. in addition i consider that some elements of the proposal should be clarified. i therefore supported the rapporteur tabling amendments aiming at clarifying the text, adding the definition of credit line, modifying the reporting requirements and clarifying the obligations as regards statement of expenditure.
in writing. − the european union is being confronted with the persistence of the economic and financial crisis having an alarmingly negative impact on the macroeconomic stability and budget of member states. reductions in national financial resources available to finance public investments have become a clear constraint to cohesion policy implementation and absorption of structural funds in some countries. i welcome the proposal of the european commission (com (2011)0482) amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 (general regulation), and note that the aim is to provide additional financial resources to eu member states facing particular difficulties in managing public debt/deficit and ensuring financial stability – with a view to ensuring the continuation of the implementation of the programmes.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. although the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), does not in principle allow any difference between the taxation of local products of the canary islands and the taxation of products from spain or other member states, council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002, adopted on the basis of article 299(2) of the ec treaty, authorises spain, up to 31 december 2011, to apply exemptions from or reductions in the tax known as aiem to a list of products produced locally in the canary islands. decision 2002/546/ec sets out the reasons for adopting specific measures, designed to strengthen local industry by making it more competitive.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which takes into account the special conditions, characteristics and constraints of the eu’s outermost regions, including the french overseas departments (fod). the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, will adopt specific measures aimed at laying down the conditions of application of the treaties, including common policies. one of the areas concerned by these specific measures is fiscal policy. however, the measures formerly mentioned will not undermine the integrity and coherence of the union legal order.
in writing. − i supported this report. eurobonds can simultaneously achieve a remarkable source of financing for countries with low levels of debt and very expensive financing for those countries that break the rules, following the red and blue bonds model. finally, eurobonds can give an impulse to the euro as a global reserve currency, as with them a debt obligations market would be born on a european scale, five times bigger than the german one and almost as big as the north american.
in writing. − this report addresses the actions and activities of the european central bank during this critical period of stress in the eurozone and the wider european economy. the ecb has a crucial role to play in containing the threat of sovereign debt and banking crises in the eurozone, in the absence of clear and credible long-term arrangements being put in place. this report fails to support the ecb in undertaking this urgent role. the report also includes a call for the establishment of a new european finance minister and a european treasury. it is a matter for eurozone members to determine whether such institutions should be put in place for the eurozone but labour euro mps do not support any implication that such bodies should apply to non-eurozone member states and believe consideration of treaty change for such matters is a distraction at this time of crisis. we therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘urges the member states to carry out an in-depth analysis of the problem of early school leaving, while taking due account of data protection, in order to identify the root causes at national, regional and local level, and to develop appropriate packages of measures for prevention, intervention and compensation, including specialised establishments or school support services for recognised disabilities; believes that strategies to tackle early school leaving must be based on an analysis of the specific national, regional, and local dimensions of the phenomenon and that these data should serve to focus research on the reasons for the exceptionally high drop-out rates among given categories of pupils and in the regions, localities, and schools most affected’.
in writing. − more needs to be done to reduce the rate of school drop outs, particularly for the most vulnerable groups in our society – 20% of roma children get no education at all and, of those who have been in education, 30% have dropped out of school. we need a more varied and effective approach to teaching – a wide curriculum which includes vocational training is vital at this time. we need young skilled workers to help boost the economy and need to ensure that everybody leaves school with qualifications – at the moment around 52% of children that leave school without qualification are jobless. making sure that people have a second chance to gain qualifications is a fundamental part of this report, which i fully support.
in writing. − when margaret thatcher became british prime minister in 1979, she instructed the department for education to send no more than one circular (set of instructions) to schools and colleges each year. now our educational establishments are bombarded with proposals and recommendations on almost a daily basis. as a school governor and a former local councillor, i know that we should not be telling our schools what to teach, how to teach or what targets to achieve. i certainly don’t believe that this is a job for the european union, which is why i voted against this report. the report also includes recommendations which are idealistic, impractical and verging on the irrational. if, as the report suggests, eu member states are to provide financial support to parents who ‘devote time and love to bringing up young children’, the next obvious step would be the establishment of an eu love police to check that all european children are receiving the necessary brussels-sanctioned quota of affection. the report also calls for the ‘special relationship between parents and children’ to be strengthened. is this really an area which requires eu legislation? i think not.
in writing. − i voted for the banana accompanying measures instrument so that countries impacted by tariff reductions on bananas can get assistance for their industry.
in writing. − i voted to support the outcome of the conciliation committee on the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries.
in writing. − i voted to back the work of the conciliation committee on this important instrument to promote democracy and human rights.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote for this report because i believe that the proliferation of democracy and human rights has been one of the successes of the european union. however, when funding democracy and human rights projects in third countries, the eu must ensure not only that taxpayers’ money is not wasted but also that the projects are meeting their objectives. a recent case of a democracy and human rights project in afghanistan involving one of my london constituents has highlighted the need to manage such projects better and to ensure value-for-money for citizens. the eu office in afghanistan paid my constituent eur 70 000 to make a documentary on the plight of women who have been raped or beaten and then imprisoned under the country’s justice system. these unreasonable punishments and discrimination against women were highlighted in my constituent’s film in-justice. and yet the eu delegation refuses to release this film. my constituent wishes to reach an agreement with the eu delegation in order to tell the story of these mistreated and persecuted women. i call on the eu to reach a solution so that the film can be released or return the money it has wasted to the taxpayer.
in writing. − even though i do not entirely support the outcome of conciliation on the development cooperation instrument i voted to support it.
in writing. − i voted to support mr simpson's proposals on this subject.
in writing. − the people of kaliningrad should enjoy as much freedom to travel to the eu as is appropriate according to the rules on the schengen area. this kaliningrad oblast has almost one million inhabitants, which creates problems on its own as regards abolishing standard border controls. the creation of the exception to the general schengen rules only for kaliningrad is a step that requires sincere and deep cooperation by the russian federation and the eu. such cooperation is now diminishing, in light of russia opening a new anti-missile radar station in kaliningrad, as well as suggestions about possible withdrawal from the new start treaty and deployment of tactical missiles to the kaliningrad area. all these steps do not increase the mutual trust that is a prerequisite for any exception to the general rules on the schengen area and checks on the external border of the eu. therefore, while supporting the general idea of facilitating local border traffic from and to kaliningrad, it seems appropriate to postpone the decision on this measure until mutual trust and cooperation as regards kaliningrad are built between the russian federation and the eu and its member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report. local border areas constitute a very important tool developed by the european union to ensure artificial and arbitrary barriers are not erected between peoples living in regions divided by national frontiers
in writing. − i voted against croatian admission to the eu at this time.
in writing. − while i am generally in favour of enlargement of the eu, it is clear that the lessons of other recent accessions have not been learned. in relation to croatia, there is still widespread corruption, organised crime has not been dealt with, the judiciary is often ineffective and property and contract laws do not function properly. on this basis, i abstained on these votes.
in writing. − i voted for the amendment expressing concerns about the treatment of people who took part in a lgbt pride march in split on 11 june 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in support of croatia's accession to the eu and i look forward to the signature of the accession treaty. during negotiations croatia has worked hard to reform its judicial system, but there remains a need to ensure that progress continues to be made especially on issues such as anti-corruption and minority protection. it is vital that the european parliament continues to monitor the pre-accession process and is kept informed by the european commission of the steps taken by croatia to honour the negotiation commitments.
in writing. − i am delighted that the european parliament has adopted a code of conduct which compares with the best practice in any of our national parliaments.
in writing. − i followed the recommendation of the rapporteur in the case of mr viktor uspaskich.
in writing. − i voted to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. − european semester for economic policy coordination. the ecr group voted against the report on the basis that article 121 of the tfeu clearly states that: ‘member states shall regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern and shall coordinate them within the council, in accordance with article 120’. it is therefore against the tfeu for the report to call for a codecision procedure in paragraph 41. we also could not support paragraph 63 which calls for the development of the concept of a european treasury. for these reasons we were unable to support the report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘views as regrettable the lack of clarity in, and the overlapping of, the different instruments and budgetary lines through which the europe 2020 targets are to be achieved via the eu budget’ and ‘recalls that the european semester provides a good opportunity to develop greater synergy between eu and member state budgets’.
in writing. − labour meps backed this lengthy report as it includes important and positive proposals, including the importance of the european commission's analysis of growth focusing on long-term sustainable growth. we also welcome its clarification that wages, pensions and other crucial elements of a nation’s social system are issues for subsidiarity which member states themselves should decide on, without intervention from the european union. the report makes limited reference to exploring the concept of a european treasury to support the economic pillar of economic and monetary union. it is a matter for euro zone members to determine whether such an institution to be put in place for the euro zone but labour meps do not support any implication that such bodies should apply to non-euro zone member states.
in writing. − i welcome the work done by the single market forum in an effort to join forces to relaunch the single market in this difficult context of economic crisis. i would like to use this opportunity to insist on two points: 1 - the need to make the single market a reality for all european citizens and businesses so as to make it the real engine for growth in the european union. the priority measures that the commission will come up with in the coming months in the single market act should focus on the need to drive sustainable and innovative economic growth, hand in hand with initiatives taken by member states and the business community to boost growth in the eu at a time of economic recession. 2 - the single market must, as a matter of priority, generate new opportunities for businesses in europe, starting with innovative smes. the small business act principle must underpin all initiatives taken in the framework of the single market, to create a small business-friendly environment for our enterprises to thrive on the markets, accompanied by sound and fair regulation which does not create additional unnecessary burden on smes which are the core of our potential for growth in europe.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘recalls the importance of simplification and proper implementation of public procurement rules and therefore calls on the commission and the member states to ensure it in the existing and upcoming legal framework; notes the need to professionalise the public procurement sector through improved training, to confirm procurement objectives and to explore possible ways of achieving other policy objectives; considers that the participation of smes in public procurement tenders needs to be improved and that procurement procedures need to be less cumbersome, cheaper and more open to smes, and underlines the need for an extended use of the ‘most economically advantageous tender’ principle instead of the ‘cheapest price’ principle’.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which "calls on the member states to take all necessary action to end discrimination against people living with hiv/aids, to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, paying particular attention to all people vulnerable to and affected by hiv, to review laws and policies that adversely affect the delivery of effective hiv programmes and to ensure that people living with hiv/aids are involved and represented when anti-discrimination policies are drawn up; stresses the importance of taking account of the gender perspective in combating discrimination, so as to develop a comprehensive hiv/aids approach"
in writing. − regarding the vote today on world aids day i wish to explain why i voted against in several rcvs on the issue of the right to abortion, phrased as ‘reproductive rights’ or ‘sexual health matters’ which is something for reasons of conscience i personally oppose when used as a contraceptive; furthermore i regard abortion law as a matter for each sovereign country to decide in their national parliaments and in many developing countries abortion remains illegal. nevertheless i have always championed the right for sufferers from hiv/aids to receive proper treatment everywhere and in particular for the international community and the eu to mobilise medical aid to countries which have poor facilities for aids sufferers, and for the eu to help fund anti-retroviral medication and needle exchange programmes for drug addicts in the developing world. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution overall.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution as i believe that we must offer our commitment to combat hiv/aids as thousands of people are being infected each year. in the uk 100 000 people are living with hiv and there have been 20 000 deaths in my country since the epidemic began. however, i was disappointed that the issue of reproductive rights and abortion was included in the resolution. while i believe that women must have appropriate access to legal abortion in order to keep them safe, it plays a slight role in the fight against hiv/aids. in my constituency of london, chelsea and westminster hospital has made appropriate interventions to reduce the rate of mother-to-child hiv transmission to just 1%. the inclusion of reproductive rights in the resolution unfortunately caused a number of my colleagues in the ecr and the conservative party to vote against it. we must face up to hiv which, while being preventable, has no vaccine and no cure. i regret that a number of colleagues opposed, abstained or did not have the courage to vote on this resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which points out that "the sentencing on 11 october 2011 of ukraine’s former prime minister, yulia tymoshenko, to seven years in prison and the trials of other ministers have raised serious concerns in the eu and are widely seen as either acts of revenge or as part of an attempt to convict and imprison opposition members in order to prevent them from standing and campaigning in next year’s parliamentary elections or in the 2015 presidential election; whereas the law selectively applied against tymoshenko dates back to soviet times and makes provision for criminal prosecution for political decisions; whereas articles 364 and 365 of that law, which are currently under review by the verkhovna rada, do not comply with eu and un standar"
in writing. − i voted for this report in which the rapporteur stresses the need to ensure cooperation among customs authorities, as well as between customs authorities and traders, customs authorities and other governmental authorities and in that respect strongly supports the coordinated border management, single window principle, one-stop-shop concept and centralised customs clearance. the rapporteur also proposes to establish european customs agency to deal with customs issues.
in writing. − this resolution calls on member states to take action to modernise customs procedures across the eu. in particular this report calls for serious action to be taken to combat illegal imports. greater cooperation between customs authorities in all member states will combat the trade in illegal and counterfeit goods, and ensure greater product safety and protection of intellectual property rights across the eu. a seamless and harmonised application of eu customs legislation throughout the eu will enhance the competitiveness of eu firms, but meps pointed out that customs controls should primarily target high-risk consignments to reduce the burden and cost on importers and customs authorities.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner must excuse us if some of us feel outrage at the existing agreement. you only have to look at the evaluation study to recognise its faults. the study makes absolutely clear that this is the least successful of all the bilateral fisheries agreements agreed by the european union. it is one under which our taxpayers are paying eur 36 million a year – for what? very little. the fish we land does not even end up in the european union: it goes down to africa or gets sold on to the asian market. the ship-owners – there are 80 ships, more or less, on a constant basis there – are paying just eur 2 million. that is a subsidy of extraordinary proportions. not surprisingly, when we look at the issue of sustainability and we recognise that these fishermen are fishing in waters which are described as ‘fully-exploited’ or ‘over-exploited’, there are questions here about the whole sustainability aspect. i think we can have confidence that the commissioner will do her very best to negotiate a new arrangement which meets the criteria of sustainability and the social requirements referred to in the declaration. she can also have a smile on her face, as she was not responsible for negotiating the appalling arrangement we have in place at the moment.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, morocco has occupied western sahara since the 1970s. if this fisheries deal goes ahead, the eu will be in breach of international law. we know it, the un knows it, and even parliament’s legal services know it. the financial contribution to morocco will be eur 36 million every year for eu boats to plunder overfished stocks. the commission has provided no assurances that the western saharan people will benefit from this deal, and i have no doubt that the money will be hoovered up by the moroccan authorities. despite all this, the commission does not care and wants its deal. uk boats that operate in the area go to great lengths to make sure local people benefit, so it would be a shame for them to be disrupted. this all demonstrates the failure of eu control over uk fisheries and trade. i am appalled that the liberal democrat political group tried to cancel this public debate and submitted a resolution that urges the commission to close the deal as quickly as possible. this whole issue shows just how little the eu cares for democracy and human rights around the world. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i would just like to ask the honourable gentleman what evidence he has that the liberal democrat group, under the leadership of our rapporteur carl haglund, tried to cancel this debate? i believe that is not true.
blue-card answer. – mr president, i understand that the coordinators wanted to go straight to the chair and have no vote, which seems a funny way of going about democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 13 december 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european protection order (15571/1/2011 – c7-0452/2011 – 2010/0802(cod)) (rapporteurs: teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, carmen romero lópez) (a7-0435/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 13 december 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a member state (13036/3/2011 – c7-0451/2011 – 2007/0229(cod)) (rapporteur: véronique mathieu) (a7-0434/2011).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think it is clear that for all of us the legislation that we are talking about this evening maybe is not the most perfect that we would have hoped for. however i think many of us see it as a positive step forward, and certainly analysis of it that has been done says that it may be positive in terms of integration for the many thousands of people affected by the legislation. it is a simplification in terms of putting together the residence and work permit as a single piece of paperwork. that, we know, was controversial, as well in the way in which it was discussed. but it should be a simplification and, as has been pointed out, there is a due requirement of time so that these applications should not be left sitting on desks as they so often are in many of our member states. in terms of the rights section of it – which the committee on employment and social affairs was largely dealing with – i think we have made some progress there. the most important part of it is that we are looking at equality of treatment with member state nationals in a large number of places, not least in terms of pay, rights of freedom of association and the right to educational/vocational training so that people are actually able to improve their skills base, which is for their own benefit and for the benefit of the company with which they work. the social security dimension is also important and i think that the changes that parliament managed to make on pensions is one which we should be proud of.
mr president, this directive calls for common rights for third-party migrants working in the eu. if adopted it would remove what little rights remain or are still left to member states to determine their own immigration policy. it wants third-party migrants to enjoy comparable rights to those of eu nationals, including working conditions, social security and access to public services. but of course not all member states have the same level of social security and public services, and of course a citizen of a state, by definition, enjoys the benefits of that citizenship, or should enjoy the benefits of that citizenship that non-citizens do not. if citizens do not have exclusive rights, then the concept of citizenship itself is meaningless. what this will mean is that third-party migrants will flood to those states that have the highest levels of public housing, social security and public services. no prizes for guessing that britain will be top of their list as a destination. equally unsurprisingly, i can tell you that uk independence party meps will vote against this directive. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr batten, my understanding is that the uk is not actually signing up to this, so i do not quite understand what you said. why do you assume that people are going to be flooding to a country which is not actually covered by this directive?
blue-card answer. – i know that may be technically true, but we seem to get saddled with these directives in time anyway. i am sure that we will not be able to wriggle out of it for very long, in the same way as we get all kinds of people turning up in our country and taking benefits in the social security and housing system, although they have got no rights to them. we know that for a fact. so while i hope that you are right and there will be a way of avoiding this, i think that in practice we will not.
mr president, the rapporteur has said that legal migration will increase the eu’s competiveness, but she is just a little bit coy about explaining how. let me help her out. flood the market with any commodity – and of course labour is seen as a commodity by globalists – and the price will be driven down. as i have said repeatedly, the only way in which an unprotected developed world can compete with the third world and emerging economies is by pushing the wage rates of our workers down to their levels. we need protection for our industries and workers and not competitiveness built on the back of our workers. the rapporteur goes on to seek to justify immigration by reference to demographic change in europe, falling birth rates and ageing population. however, birth rates fall in response to economic demands in the home and can be reversed by imaginative social policies. furthermore, if you bring third world immigrants to europe, they do not become substitute europeans. they bring the third world with them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (13 december 2011).
the next item is the report by birgit sippel, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right to information in criminal proceedings (com(2010)0392 – c7-0189/2010 – 2010/0215(cod)) (a7-0408/2011).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i congratulate ms sippel as rapporteur for leading us to a successful conclusion and i, as always, welcome the full support and backing of vice-president reding. it is clear that a person who is arrested or questioned is in a vulnerable position and deserves to know their rights and how to apply them, but the quality of information provided is often poor. people often do not understand what rights they have, and this ignorance is exacerbated by being a foreigner and not speaking the local language. a particular need, given that we know that there is discrimination in granting of bail, is to know how to contest pre-trial detention. eu laws are needed, backed by enforcement powers, to make concrete the rights theoretically available under the european convention on human rights. parliament rightly fought for information to be provided as soon as possible, as soon as someone is informed they are a suspect. no one should be left for hours in a police cell to stew without knowing what is happening to them or being able to contact a lawyer or consular help. we also rightly insisted on the accused person or their lawyer having access to all material possessed by police or prosecutors that will be used as evidence, and at an early enough stage for a proper defence to be mounted. like vice-president reding, i believe meps’ success in inserting a right to silence is very important. i am glad that my own country, the uk, has opted into this measure, whatever else it is doing elsewhere, as it did with the first one on the procedural rights road map on the right to interpretation and translation. i am hopeful that the uk will also take part in the third measure on access to legal assistance and advice. the uk has a good record in the field of defence rights, so in this area my country needs to be fully engaged. of course, we are many years overdue in matching the strengthened cross-border powers of prosecutors with stronger rights for accused persons. i hope that we have put one more brick in the foundations of fair trials across the eu so that miscarriages of justice over measures like the european arrest warrants will become a thing of the past.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this directive includes the right to information for persons facing a european arrest warrant. in the case of an eaw, it will have to be a short letter. subjects of eaws effectively have no meaningful rights. provided that the form has been correctly completed, the court has no power to refuse extradition. the court cannot base its decision on the prima facie evidence – or the lack of it – against the accused person. what is worse is that some people are being extradited, not after being charged, but to face investigation. one of my constituents in london, dr miguel-ángel meizoso, is facing extradition to spain, not for something that he is alleged to have done, but for something he is accused of that he might possibly do in the future. if you do not believe me, i can give you the case papers. an english court would reject his extradition if it had any power to do so. giving dr meizoso a nice letter will not protect him and will be small consolation.
mr president, many of my constituents will be amazed to learn that a right to a lawyer or a phone call needs a directive in the european union. we are fortunate in the uk to have comprehensive legal rights. my constituents may well just ask themselves what type of union their country is part of. where they actually see the eu fall down – and this has terribly been mentioned by some of my colleagues this evening – is the european arrest warrant, where british citizens are brought before british courts who are powerless to take any action to stop what they can clearly see is unfair treatment by other eu countries. the need for this directive shows that their legal systems are not up to scratch. when are we going to protect ourselves and leave the european union?
mr president, the european food safety authority is investigating health claims on food products, the so-called article 13 claims. this is very important for citizens. their nda panel which does this work has rejected, however, 95% of claims for plant-based foods – maybe in many cases with good reason – but among the claims rejected is the claim that prunes have a laxative effect. now according to the nda there is no cause and effect between eating prunes and normal bowel function. i have asked the commission if it is satisfied with the criteria and the methodology used for testing such claims because i know that prunes contain two substances, sorbitol and dihydrophenylisatin, which have laxative effects. but most of our constituents do not require a scientific test. so i would ask you, mr vice-president, if you would, on our behalf, challenge commissioner dalli to a prune-eating contest so that he can see for himself.
mr president, i wish to express my concern about two important elections which took place this week. in the democratic republic of congo, there have been serious concerns about the activities of the ceni, the electoral commission, with accusations of widespread fraud in favour of the incumbent, president joseph kabila, and a lot of serious violence has broken out. international observers on the ground are demanding more transparency and the publication of the results at local level, and the high representative must insist on this if the eu is to unequivocally recognise the results. similarly in russia – parliamentary elections – there have been widespread protests at the allegations of massive fraud, again carried out in favour of putin’s united russia party. the scale is so large that there are grounds to believe, a bit like in ukraine in 2005, that the outcome of the election would have been completely different. so there is also reason to demand now a re-run of these parliamentary elections in russia, otherwise the presidential election next year will be a total farce.
rapporteur. − mr president, in february of this year, the european commission published its trade and investment barriers report which highlighted its priorities for action on breaking down barriers to trade. the report itself provided a comprehensive overview of the challenges the eu faces as a result of the vast array of non-tariff barriers (ntbs). despite real efforts to free up trade, our policy strategy has focused primarily on the dismantling of tariffs. but the persistence of these costly and burdensome barriers is ever present and more worrying. there is evidence to suggest that countries are resorting more and more to these kinds of protectionist tools. only last month the trade commissioner himself warned our committee of the new wave of protectionism by our strategic partners. our europe 2020 trade policy strategy can only fully be realised if we systematically and constructively deal with these trade barriers. this report symbolises a shared commitment to move forward with a proactive and progressive trade agenda. i would like to see the commission act proactively to remove or at the very least reduce the restrictive impact of ntbs on the capacity of european businesses accessing foreign markets. the commission should raise the question of ntbs with all eu trading partners. the eu should also carefully review its own trade measures in order to lift all illegitimate hindrances to open and free markets and become a true forerunner in the anti-ntb fight. it is good to see mrs reding, the commissioner from luxembourg here today. i have a personal question to do with the problem of tariffs on fuel travelling across borders. we do have problems of tariffs within the european union and therefore it is important that these should be sorted out. the commission should address the ntb problem as part of its wto agenda, within reassessment of existing wto agreements on technical barriers to trade (tbt) and the tbt agreement. with regard to free trade agreements, it is vital that these agreements provide sufficient reciprocity and market access and mutual benefits to both parties, in order to increase both the general awareness about ntbs and motivate business and public authorities into fighting against them. the commission should also gather information on the wto and oecd and any other international organisation that is relevant to work done or ongoing about a possible correlation between the existence of ntbs and the resulting loss of potential market share. i would also like to see the commission examine the possibility of developing and establishing an early warning mechanism to detect ntbs. the report suggests the increased use of regulatory dialogue with key strategic partners and working more closely with the international institutions to address the use of unjustified ntbs. we have been giving special consideration to ldcs and sids, recognising the sensitivity that exists in these markets, including a distinction between developing economies and emerging industrial economies, such as the bric countries. seeing my chairman and other people here, i would like to take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the committee on international trade, my shadow rapporteurs and all members for a combined effort in making this report so important. we hope that the commission will support the recommendation of this house.
blue-card question. – mr president, it sounded in mr daul’s speech as if he was making a threat to the united kingdom. perhaps the translators got it wrong. can you confirm, mr daul, that in your speech as chairman of the epp group and on behalf of the epp group, that you were indeed threatening that the united kingdom’s well deserved rebate be reduced or taken away? can you confirm that you did indeed make that threat?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i have often asked myself the question: why would a successful country that has enjoyed a thousand years of independence give up its right of self-government to the unelected nonentities that we see sitting before us this morning? the answer that comes back from the foreign office and the great and the good is that we must have influence in europe. we must have a seat at the top table and we can change things. we have done our best to prove what good europeans we are. we go on paying you gbp 50 million a day. we have helped the euro bailout fund, even though we did not join the currency, thank goodness. we have given you 80% of the fish stocks that swim in our waters – your fleets can come and take that from us – and we have applied every directive you have given us absolutely to the letter, all of it to gain influence. in fact nick clegg is so deluded he still thinks we can take the lead in europe. when a british prime minister goes to a summit with a very modest proposal to protect a uniquely important british industry, a snarling president sarkozy tells him where to go, with german approval of course, and we find ourselves without a friend in the room. some influence! well you have decided to head off on the titanic towards economic and democratic disaster, and we are now in a lifeboat outside the titanic, but we are threatened by a bow wave that is going to come and engulf us if we are not careful – and it is retribution. we have heard the language of retribution this morning. financial markets legislation is going to be imposed upon britain and we will have no influence whatsoever over any of it. something changed though on friday. mr cameron may not know it, but we are now on course: britain is going to make the great escape. we are going to get out of this union. we will be the first european country to get our freedom back. i suspect many others will follow, and then what we will have is our democracy back, our liberty back, and we will have influence in the world as you lot head for disaster. it is going to happen. (applause from the efd group) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i am grateful to the member for accepting a question. given that the actions, the very selfish actions, of prime minister david cameron in uniquely achieving nothing for the one square mile of the 86 000 square miles of the united kingdom have achieved nothing but actually undermined the 26 other member states trying to solve this crisis, would he agree with me that prime minister cameron may well have made a couple of people in his own party happy and that he may well have made a couple of people in the member’s party happy? he did not speak on behalf of the labour party, the greens, the liberals – well not all of the liberals anyway. he certainly did not speak on behalf of the people of scotland, with one representative at the westminster parliament from my country. he certainly did not speak on behalf of the aspirations of the scottish parliament. would he agree with me that, if he does achieve the aim that he has facilitated and the united kingdom does leave this place, the people of scotland will do considerably better representing ourselves, free from london rule, as part of this family of nations as a constructive partner?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i have to say that that is a very difficult question to answer because there were half of dozen of them thrown in there. david cameron did what he had to do; he was forced into an impossible position but, you are right, mr smyth: he has gained no concessions whatsoever and he has actually now left the united kingdom even more vulnerable than it was before. we are in a permanent voting minority, we simply have not got a friend in the room and we have heard this morning that they want to have our rebate, they want financial market legislation. however, he has opened a debate in britain. the european debate has now started in earnest. cameron does not know what he has unleashed. i think the momentum for us to have a referendum to divorce ourselves from these failing structures and to replace them with a genuine free trade agreement now has an unstoppable momentum, and that is good for the uk and it is good for scotland. it will be good for your financial sector based in edinburgh and will provide many, many jobs for scottish people.
mr president, mr cameron stated in westminster yesterday that only two options confronted him at last week’s summit: a new treaty without the negotiated safeguards for britain or no treaty at all. he rightly chose no treaty. but with this failure he left his and the conservative party’s eu policy in tatters. he mistakenly and naively promised the british people that he could repatriate powers from the eu, and that he could safeguard british interests. but such negotiations are not possible with the european union, a union that blatantly and negligently disregards sensible economic rules. you even broke your own rules in the maastricht criteria just so that your beloved political project of european federalisation could move one step further. in your negligent actions you cause financial hardship for people across europe, people you constantly ignore in referendums. you deny them even the opportunity to have their say. to protect our interests, my country was right not to go along with your economic negligence. even ms harms said that the summit denied reality and denied democracy. the british prime minister, having had his electoral pledge on renegotiating britain’s relationship with the eu undermined and discredited, has finally faced up to the inevitable by refusing to have any part in the latest doomed rescue plan. mr cameron’s eu policy of negotiation is now in tatters and only a referendum on britain’s future membership of the eu is a viable solution. democratic integrity demands nothing less. the british people demand nothing less.
mr president, now is not the time for hysteria, exaggeration or melodrama on any side, here or anywhere else. we should analyse the events of last week coolly and calmly. the united kingdom was not in the euro on thursday, it was not in the euro on saturday. nothing changed. the united kingdom wants to see a solution to the eurozone crisis, but not a solution at the expense of the single market, and competitiveness continues to be the key. the uk is still a full member of the european union and will remain so. we believe in our national interests that we should be part of the eu. the uk’s position on the euro is unique; we also have a major trading currency to protect. it makes sense for existing eurozone countries to strengthen the rules governing the euro in the future and it would seem logical for countries who aspire to join the euro to sign up to those rules also. it not only makes little sense but it seems unfair to make demands on the uk unless safeguards could be secured in major areas such as protecting the city, but also protecting europe from the city too. we need to have a strategy to deal with the greek and the wider sovereign debt problem. underlining banking weakness, reducing budgetary debt, adjusting loan arrangements and improving capitalisation of our banks should of course still be the real priority of all our leaders today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, i heard mr daul promise that there would be no tanks or kalashnikovs before christmas. i hope he is taking a rather long view, not just a short-term one. where do you think things will be in the spring?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i was not aware that the close defence connection between the united kingdom and france was going to produce a load of kalashnikovs and tanks. after all, with de gaulle’s tank strategies, the french are the best people to know about tanks. what i would of course want is a little bit of speeding up in the joint programme to provide us with our aircraft carriers that both france and britain need to defend freedom and democracy in europe and elsewhere.
mr president, as leader of the labour meps, it is clear to me that david cameron has represented a bad deal for europe and a bad deal for britain. we have a prime minister who is willing to put the priorities of the extreme fringes of his party ahead of the interests of his country. some of the british conservative party talk about david cameron’s bulldog spirit – standing up to merkel and sarkozy, using britain’s veto – but the only thing david cameron has vetoed is britain’s influence at the top table. he has left our country isolated in europe, without allies and without influence. as mr barroso said, not 17 plus, but 27 minus. cameron claims he was protecting the city of london, but in fact he has failed to secure a single safeguard for uk financial services. he was trying to protect his friends in the city instead of protecting british jobs and growth, and he spectacularly failed in both. the uk government believes its actions have prevented the 26 from using the resources of the eu 27. this point needs clarifying. could president van rompuy confirm whether this new treaty will be subject to the eu institutions and, in particular, the jurisdiction of the european court of justice, under article 273? friday was not a good day for britain, not a good day for diplomacy. cameron left britain high and dry. he has been stoking the fires of his party’s eurosceptics for years and now he is surrounded by flames with no obvious escape. it is a catastrophic failure of his leadership and a catastrophic decision for britain. i say to mr verhofstadt that, if there is one political party in britain standing up against cameron and clegg – do not forget that clegg was part of this agreement – and their destructive policies, it is the british labour party. (applause from the left) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, as ms willmott knows i am no big fan of mr cameron, but i think it is very disingenuous for a labour politician to come here after 13 years of a labour government where you deceived and distorted the european issue to the british people. you promised referendum after referendum but you failed to deliver one and called it whatever you wanted in order not to have it. i think mr cameron has to deal with the mess of 13 years of labour policy towards the eu. but here is my question. you mentioned about the labour party supporting the european union but we have a party in government, the liberal democrats, that is actually currently supporting the conservatives. will you then call for the liberal democrats to withdraw from the coalition and force a general election so that we can have a proper debate on the european union?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think it is about time that the liberal democrats actually took their responsibilities seriously. they have let this country down big time. nobody in britain voted for a coalition government. nobody expected the lib dems to do the dirty, and they have.
mr president, the presidents of the council, the commission and the euro group did as well as possible, given the limited input material. i abhor the veto deployed by cameron. his demands were not moderate; they were a mix of an attempt to reverse agreed positions disguised as inaccurate invocations of ecofin conclusions and interference in current legislative dossiers. it was a power grab reneging on agreed legislation. crafted as a wolf in sheep’s clothing, it maybe fooled some lib dems in london, but it did not fool us or me. asked to save the euro, cameron gave in to his eurosceptic party. he has jeopardised uk interests, including those of the legitimate city, when there is nothing remaining in the agreement threatening the uk. in this crisis there is no worse time to have turned his back. his veto has made the summit result harder to deliver, more intergovernmental and less integrated with this house and the community method. but i am sure that together we will find ways to mitigate that effect and do more. i have not given up on europe or the euro.
mr president, the first lesson you learn if you are doing a lifesaving course is that a drowning person will try to drag his rescuer underneath. i felt rather like that this morning, on the receiving end of this minute’s hate because of the united kingdom having kept the pound, being threatened with the terrors of the earth. of course it was very reminiscent of what we told when we stayed out of the euro in the first place. how is that working out for you by the way, gentlemen? there was overwhelming public support for the prime minister standing aside from this new fiscal union. as mr lambsdorff says, there are now effectively going to be two parallel treaty structures. there will be the eu and there will be the fiscal union, the fu – initials which, by the way, neatly summarise the attitude which eurozone leaders take to their own peoples. you are irish and you are fed up with paying all this money to european bankers and bondholders: fu. you are greek and you are thinking that devaluation might be preferable to this constant crisis: fu. you are a businessman and you do not want to fold to keep the euro together: fu. mr verhofstadt, with that olympian authority born of long banquets and long euro-summits, said that the only possible reason to walk away is if the others will follow you. no, mr verhofstadt, there is a better reason to walk away: to preserve your democracy, to secure your independence, to keep fast the freedoms that you inherited from your parents and to pass them on intact to your children.
mr president, british liberal democrats deeply regret the outcome of last week’s summit. it is bad for britain, it is divisive for europe and it is unsettling for others. the european union needs to deepen cooperation. the united kingdom need not fear this. if it does so, it is because a flawed voting system, a party with a shrunken mind and the mass media power of an australian-american have brought the moment to its crisis. to restore monetary stability and to return to prosperity, we need more discipline in member states and more unity at union level. we must anchor the new treaty in the structures and methods of the eu. and there is a message for europe’s right-wing parties who largely preside over this mess. we must invest too in future prosperity, lest retrenchment lock us into recession. great britain must come back to the table. it may be a rock surrounded by water, but it is not an island.
mr president, i rise under rule 173. i wonder, do you share my concern at the level of xenophobia that was experienced in this chamber this morning towards britain? it is an absolute disgrace. a chair of a group, mr verhofstadt, and i quote, said, ‘when you are invited to dinner you are either invited as a guest or as a main course’. could he explain whether that was a threat and what did he mean exactly by that comment?
madam president, i want to express my disappointment at additional money being forwarded in the 2013 budget process yet again to the very expensive iter project. we are in a situation where this project will only start producing its first power in 2026 – 15 years from now – and yet we continue to spend money while failing to deal with the financial crisis that europe and the eurozone are now experiencing.
madam president, i have voted in favour of the report on the right to information in criminal proceedings as i support the need to guarantee a consistency in basic rights for those who are arrested across the eu. this is particularly important with the increased element of cross-border cooperation under the european arrest warrant. it is vitally important that the accused is made aware of having committed a criminal offence by official notification, and they should be fully aware of the relevant procedural rights as soon as possible, which has not always been the case for some british citizens who have been arrested under the european arrest warrant of late. it is also crucial for the arrested person to keep the letter of rights throughout their time of detention and this information should be presented in simple and accessible language. i would therefore welcome the proposed directive’s intention to raise the standards in some member states to a common basic standard which is already operational, if not exceeded, in the majority of member states, including my own.
madam president, any british people still wondering whether we should be in the european union could do worse than watch the proceedings of this morning. the sheer wave of antagonism – it was like being on the receiving end of the minute’s hate in orwell’s 1984, only this time the target is not the agents of goldsteinism, but the british people as a whole. mr schulz spoke darkly of taking reprisals against us, mr daul talked about taking away our rebate, mr verhofstadt wanted us dismembered and eaten! mr cohn-bendit, unusually for him, did not make a speech but, rather typically for him, yowled and shrieked throughout like a stricken beast. and what is it we have done? what is the terrible crime we have committed? we did not cause the debt crisis. we did not cause the design flaws in the euro. we are resented for having been proved right about this. why do we submit to government by people who... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the european protection order report proposes the creation of an eu-wide protection system which will protect all potential victims and actual victims of violent and physical crimes including rape, domestic abuse and other forms of intimidation. this protection order will therefore ensure fear-free movement of these victims as they continue to live their lives in the eu. i have therefore voted in favour of this report, as it clearly recognises the need to protect these vulnerable individuals who have been subject to these horrendous crimes. moreover, it sensibly acknowledges the difference between criminal offences and those of a civil nature, such as stalking and harassment. it ensures that civil crimes will continue to be treated under a civil law instrument, rather than under the european protection order. with these safeguards i am happy to support this directive.
madam president, ‘they have given us into the hand of new unhappy lords,lords without anger or honour, who dare not carry their swords. they fight by shuffling papers; they have bright dead alien eyes;they look at our labour and laughter as a tired man looks at flies.’ and the load of their loveless pity is worse than the ancient wrongs,their doors are shut in the evening; and they know no songs.’ ‘we hear men speaking for us of new laws strong and sweet,yet is there no man speaketh as we speak in the street.’ ‘smile at us, pay us, pass us. but do not quite forget.’ for ‘we are the people of england; and we have not spoken yet.’
madam president, i understand that there are some benefits within the single application procedure for residence and work initiatives, which proposes a common set of rights for all third-country workers who lawfully reside in a particular member state but who are not yet entitled to long-term residence status. pension portability and education across the eu are some of those benefits, but this report suggests introducing a single application procedure and a single residence or work permit for across the eu. i fail to see the benefits of harmonising the internal administrative procedures with respect to permanent applications. since labour markets of member states are not harmonised there is no clear eu added value to harmonise these procedures. what is more, the proposed directive will be costly for member states to administer as it creates a right to legally challenge a rejection of an application and also requires member states to designate a competent authority to process applications. minimum rights of third country workers are already guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms and therefore are not necessary within this report. it is for these reasons i have voted against this initiative.
madam president, it is very interesting when we look at this idea of a single application procedure for residents and work. surely one of the things we should ensure is that, where we have existing rules and existing laws, we actually abide by them. but i have received a number of emails and letters from constituents who now live in italy and lecture at italian universities. they are discriminated against in contravention of eu law. italian law allows italian universities to pay italian lecturers more than british and other non-italian lecturers. so, when the ecj rules on this, what do the italians do? they simply ignore the rules! but are they alone? of course they are not alone. the french and germans and other governments ignored the stability and growth pact, so how can we expect anyone to abide by the rules when we have that example to follow? for goodness sake, if you are going to pass laws in this place, please at least accept the laws and please make sure you abide by the rules before you start implementing and passing even more onerous laws that affect all our citizens.
madam president, i have to say that, like many people in this house, i have some concerns about the general direction of our fishing agreements. i think that quite often we have to make sure that the agreements are being made in a transparent way, and we have to think about the welfare of the local fishermen who might lose out from unfair deals. i know that in this particular case there were some concerns about the western sahara people and whether their fishing rights were being sold without their being consulted properly, but in general when we look at the fishing rights with a number of countries, from developing countries, when those fishing rights are given away without the say-so or consultation of local fishermen, what we find is that local fishermen are no longer able to compete with the industrial-sized fishing fleets that come from europe. these people are no longer able to make a living for themselves, and when they are unable to make a living for themselves, what do they seek to do? they seek to emigrate to a better life, often to european shores. and then what do we do here in europe? we complain. we complain about the migration from poorer countries. so let us make sure that we think these agreements through properly and let us make sure that we are not impoverishing the people of africa and other countries, who will seek a better life in our countries.
madam president, i voted for and backed the de castro report on co-financing rates for member states using financial stability mechanisms. i welcome the agreement between parliament and the council to increase the eu co-financing rates for rural development programmes in greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania. i sincerely hope that this extra assistance will help these countries, which are experiencing severe budgetary constraints following the financial and economic crisis, to access eu rural development funds. the funding should provide much-needed investment in creating jobs and growth, both of which are vital for economic recovery. however, these special measures cannot be a blank cheque: they must deliver genuine results and outcomes. that is why the co-financing measures must only be a temporary facility which can be renewed after one year if they prove to be successful in helping these countries to access the funds. i hope the funding will succeed in creating new jobs, new opportunities and much-needed growth in these countries, and that we will be in a position to renew these measures next year.
madam president, i voted against this report. whilst i salute what david cameron did for defending vital national interests over the rules at the recent summit, actually the purpose of it was to put in place a financial plan to save the euro and it failed to do that. in my view, what is much more scary than the full or partial collapse of the euro – damaging as that would be – is the notion of the european central bank printing eur 2 trillion or more with nothing to back the paper they are printing. i think angela merkel is right, but she has been isolated on this because she wants to avoid the nightmare scenario, quite rightly, of a return to the weimar republic. in my view, it is better for an orderly end to the euro, or parts of the euro, than wheelbarrows full of worthless notes.
in writing. − i voted against this report in which the international nuclear fusion research project iter will get eur 1.3 billion for 2012 and 2013. this joint research project with the eu, the us, china, the russian federation, india, japan and south korea, aims to show that fusion energy is scientifically and technologically feasible. whilst i agree that research in this area is important i cannot see why the eu is trying to act as a funder while eurozone economies are failing. instead the eu is aiming to give eur 100 million in the 2012 budget, and eur 840 million which will be deducted from administration and agriculture and added to research and development (a practice known as ‘offsetting’). a further eur 360 million is apparently needed in 2013. i am pleased that six member states saw it fit to block the agreement on the source of the eur 360 million in 2013 (de, fr, at, uk, nl, se) especially as the eu is providing 45.5% of cost, while the other partners are contributing only 9.1%. the eu contribution is an estimated eur 6.6 billion. bearing in mind that the uk was just asked to give up the rebate again, i can presume that is where the commission is hoping the money will come from!
in writing. − i voted to amend the interinstitutional agreement as regards the multiannual financial framework in order to provide the additional eur 1 300 million commitment appropriations from the eu budget required for the iter project in 2012-2013.
in writing. − i voted for the commission proposal for mobilisation of the eusf based on point 26 of the iia of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, which allows such a mobilisation within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. the eligibility conditions for the fund are detailed in council regulation no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf, and it must be recalled that the objective of the fund is to repair infrastructure, that it is a refinancing tool and cannot compensate private damages. the direct damages in murcia, spain, have been estimated by the commission, based on calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842.8 million. in the case of veneto, italy, the direct damages have been estimated at eur 3 717 million. the total amount for aid proposed in dab 7/2011 is eur 37 979 875
in writing. − i voted against the attribution of eur 38 million to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. i have the deepest sympathy for those who have suffered as a result of damage caused by the earthquake in lorca in may this year and the severe flooding in the veneto region this autumn. as a british taxpayer, i would wholly support the uk government offering aid to these regions, but as someone who does not believe the eu should have such competencies, i regretfully cannot support this vote.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to help spain and italy. spain applied for assistance from the solidarity fund for damage caused by the earthquake in murcia on 11 may 2011. the town of lorca was hit by two consecutives earthquakes with a magnitude of 5.2 killing 9 people and injuring some 300 more. a further 10 000 people were evacuated and around 30 000 people had to spend the first night on the streets. furthermore, the disaster caused widespread damage to residential homes, businesses, public buildings, cultural heritage sites, to the road network and to basic infrastructure. italy applied for assistance from the solidarity fund following torrential rainfall from 31 october to 2 november 2010 in the veneto region of north-eastern italy. the effects of the heavy rainfall were aggravated by a warm mediterranean ‘sirocco’ wind that melted the snow in the nearby mountains. the disaster caused significant damage to road and infrastructure networks, agriculture, businesses and residential homes.
in writing. − i regret that in italy 528 workers were made redundant by 323 construction firms in the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region. it is always awful when during such testing times people lose employment. however this is happening across the continent and should be the priorities of the nations in which those people live or the prerogative of allied nations to help where possible countries most deeply affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns and the financial crisis. i thus, unfortunately, cannot agree to give italy an extra eur 3.9 million as i do not believe this adjustment fund should even exist as an eu competence.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. this is the twenty-third application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 918 850 from the egf for italy. it concerns 643 redundancies, of which 528 targeted for assistance, in 323 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 41 (‘construction of buildings’) in the nuts ii region of trentino-alto adige/südtirol (itd1 and itd2) during the nine-month reference period from 1 march 2010 to 1 december 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which aims to create a ‘letter of rights’ for individuals arrested in any one of the 27 member states. the proposal for a directive on the right to information in criminal matters presented by the european commission in july 2010 is the second step of the list of measures contained in the roadmap on procedural rights. it aims at setting common minimum standards as regards the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the first step, on the right to interpretation and translation, is a directive adopted on 8 october 2010.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of karel pinxten as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of henrik otbo as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the governments concerned will appoint them after parliament's report by the spanish socialist rapporteur. it is absurd that, after the elections in spain, where the popular party has won an absolute majority, this parliament should go into the evaluation of a candidate proposed by the socialist government of mr rodríguez zapatero, who is in office, without listening to the proposal to which the government of mr mariano rajoy is entitled. the new government will take office on 21 december and the council must make the appointments by march. the candidate of the spanish socialist government, who was proposed for such a politically important post just the day before the election, should be withdrawn out of respect for the majority will of the spanish citizens.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of juan-francisco corona ramón as a member of the court of auditors
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of ville itälä as a member of the european court of auditors
in writing. − i voted for on the nomination of kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of pietro russo as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of vitor manuel da silva caldeira as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for the nomination of hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − today parliament voted on candidates to the court of auditors (coa). if this body is to be an independent scrutiniser we should not be casting such votes. independence from the political process is key. however the reality is very different. the eu budget has not been signed off by the coa for 17 years, yet the institutions budgetary processes carry on as normal. what is the point of the coa if they are ignored? this week the coa lambasted the fishing industry. the problem with these reports is that they apply to all 27 eu member states. therefore, those doing a good job get swamped by those not. where the northern ireland/ul fleet is concerned: unlike the republic of ireland and other countries it is more than 20 years since eu funds were used to finance new fishing vessels. in ni, the whitefish fleet, which comprised over 40 trawlers in 1999 is now numbered at four. at the end of the 1990s, the ni over 10m fleet was comprised of 240 vessels, today 140 are in the same size category. even the ec’s own figures confirm that the total fishing effort in the irish sea dropped by 50% between 2004 and 2009.
in writing. − the ecr group strongly defends the rights of victims who have been subject to physical violence and intimidation, and we recognise that vulnerable groups such as women, for example, if they have been subjected to a physically violent crime, need protecting at the highest possible level. we recognise that asking anyone who has been violently assaulted or violated to give evidence a second or third time can be a harrowing experience and to those ends we fully support the aims and objectives of the european protection order. so that eu citizens can move in freedom, safety and security throughout the european union, this eu-wide protection order will guarantee that all victims or potential victims can move in safety. this protection order will in no way seek to undermine member states’ own criminal, legal or justice systems and it will only be applied once a court of law has found the perpetrator guilty. the perpetrator will have rights of redress. the ecr group backs these proposals and in doing so hopes to help vulnerable victims and potential victims throughout the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which means that crime victims who are granted protection from their aggressors in one eu member state will be able to get similar protection if they move to another. the european protection order aims to protect victims of, for instance, gender violence, harassment, abduction, stalking or attempted murder. member states will have three years to transpose this directive into national law. measures to protect crime victims from aggressors already exist in all eu member states but at present they cease to apply if the victim moves to another country. the european protection order (epo) directive, already agreed with national governments, will enable anyone protected under criminal law in one eu state to apply for similar protection if they move to another.
in writing. − i voted with the ecr group on the european protection order, endorsing a second reading of this order to adopt the council’s position. the coming into force of an eu-wide protection order would serve to protect female victims of violent and physical crimes that are classed as criminal offences in the country concerned, throughout europe, even if they cross international borders. increasingly there are international marriages which sadly break up, resulting in spouses changing national residence and, consequently, injunctions against violent spouses lapsing. this small measure seeks to address this problem.
in writing. − this report lays out crucial safeguards for victims of crime wishing to live in another member state. in the past, there has been no recognition of protection orders from one member state by another, but the european protection order offers victims of crimes such as domestic violence, stalking, and abduction, equal protection in whichever country in the eu they reside. the epo does this by enabling victims to move country whilst hampering the efforts of their aggressors to make advances towards their victims once they have moved. in an eu with the free movement of people at its heart, this is a crucial tool in combating both violent and psychological crimes by using the broadest possible range of protection measures issued by member states.
in writing. − the eu approach is generally unhelpful in these matters. a standardised, eu-wide application procedure for work and residence permits would make it more difficult for the british government to control our borders and could lead to an increase in the number of illegal immigrants who enter the uk via our european neighbours. this report would also grant non-europeans access to uk benefits, such as pensions, education and vocational training, and some of our social services. it will also make it more complicated for non-europeans to apply for a uk work permit, which will in due course make it more difficult for the uk to recruit the highly skilled, non-europeans it may need in critical parts of the economy. i have always said that immigration policy must remain a uk government competency, and i strongly oppose any move towards a one-size-fits-all eu immigration policy. our national security, prosperity and cohesion are my prime concerns. i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted against this legislation as it simply throws more money at the eu’s failing economies. it is unacceptable that uk taxpayers’ money will be used to pay up to 95% of the costs of rural development projects in greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania to help spur economic recovery when the uk deficit is only controllable due to the fact that we chose not to join the single currency. our wisdom more than a decade ago to not join the euro must not be used against us now as the euro fails to fund the resultant problems occurring in single currency member states and other nations in the eu. these higher co-financing rates for states in financial difficulty would be applied on a temporary basis only, until the end of 2013, but what kind of guarantee would the uk have that this legislation would not be continued or that the recipient nations would spend the funding wisely? in most cases such eu projects are cynically established to restore the image and perception of the european union in countries that may either be disillusioned with membership or new to the union.
in writing. − i support this proposal. as a consequence of the financial and budgetary crisis, some member states are facing budgetary constraints which might prevent them from fulfilling their commitments in co-financed community programs (structural and cohesion funds, eardf and european fisheries fund). these member states are at the risk of losing the community support through eardf unless they provide proof of spending matching national funds, as defined in article 70 of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, at the latest 2 years after the year initially foreseen for the payment (n+2 rule). against this background, the commission proposes to temporarily increase the maximum union co-financing rate for programmes running in member states that are subject to support of the efsm (council regulation (eu) no 407/2010) – currently greece, ireland and portugal – and the balance of payment facility for non-euro zone member states (council regulation (ec) no 332/2002), currently latvia and romania. this temporary increase in community co-financing, provided on application by the member state concerned, would reduce the amount of matching national funds needed in budget years 2011 and 2012. it would thus help to make programmed funds available for the rural economy and contribute to an overall economic recovery in these member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which calls on the commission to pay particular attention to tackling unjustified ntbs – which are a barrier to trade – while recognising the importance of legitimate public policy aims in relation to human rights, environmental rules and social standards, for example in gmo laws.
in writing. − european businesses competing at a global level should not be hindered by non-tariff barriers (ntbs), which can hamper free access to partner countries' markets. the commission needs to act to reduce the negative impact of unjustified ntbs, which are a barrier to trade. the eu needs to examine its trade measures in order to make sure that trade is made as open and free as possible. trade policy should be a priority for the eu 2020 strategy and i echo calls for the commission to address problems with the existing wto agreement on technical barriers to trade. i support the view that an early warning system be set up to identify ntbs that pose risks to trade.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr lisek has produced a detailed and well written report. unfortunately, however, he draws the wrong conclusions. it seems that the answer to every problem in this house is more europe. it is all about european integration. our concern here instead should be more military capability and greater solidarity in nato. that means serious operational commitment and political will, two elements sadly lacking in so many european countries. i am afraid that the very real threats and challenges that we face will not be resolved by trying to apply the same procedures to defence as we have seen applied to the euro. the european union should stop meddling in defence. its ambition is a dangerous, wasteful distraction. the libyan crisis should have provided more than enough evidence that csdp was irrelevant. no one wanted an eu military involvement – neither the united nations, nor indeed nato – and the libyan experience revealed very starkly the potential dangers of the pooling and sharing concept, which seemed so attractive to eu policymakers. germany even withdrew its crews from nato surveillance aircraft, the awacs, operating over libya. what sort of example is that? of the 28 countries who agreed nato operations over libya, less than half actually participated and fewer than a third were willing to participate in strike missions. how could you expect a country such as the united kingdom, or indeed france, to rely on someone else to provide a vital military capability on our behalf? this report trots out the eurocrats’ line, their desperate quest for an invented strategic autonomy of the european union, when actually we should be ensuring that our armed forces have the capabilities and interoperability to deploy alongside our closest and strongest military ally, which is the united states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, mr bütikofer makes my own argument for me. this is indeed all happening in nato so why is the european union trying to do things? why is the european union trying to replicate nato? why is it setting up institutions which merely duplicate those which already exist at nato? the great merit of nato, however, is that it is an intergovernmental alliance, and sovereign nations can choose whether or not they participate in particular operations. that is the great difference. and we do not have pooling and sharing, we have common command arrangements when there are nato operations. there are very limited pooling and sharing capabilities, and i have mentioned one of them and that is the awacs (airborne warning and control system). we saw what happened to the awacs in the libyan crisis, so we have to be extremely careful about this. what we need are solid, reliable allies. when the going gets tough they have got to turn out, even when it is politically difficult. they have to come up with the fighting capability and they have to be prepared to stick it out. that is what we want to see.
blue-card question. – mr president, i am slightly baffled and perhaps mrs tzavela could clarify her point. is she saying that of course there are real threats out there and we need to have proper defence? does she not recognise that the nato alliance provides that proper defence and that what the european union is trying to do is of no relevance to this whatsoever? does she not think that the united states would be trading good reliable allies for an institution that is politically rather awkward and militarily rather incompetent?
mr president, i shall this afternoon refrain from dwelling too much on the need for prudence in difficult economic times or on my support for nato and, in mr van orden’s words, the rather more difficult and complex nature of things in the european union. high representative, i want to focus on a fairly narrow point that you mentioned in your opening remarks. that was on the signing of the framework with the united states on civilian missions in kosovo and afghanistan and the number of people who are currently working on these programmes. we all should welcome the expertise that many of these people bring and their bravery in difficult and dangerous circumstances. i think especially of the pioneering role of former members of the royal ulster constabulary and the police service of northern ireland in iraq in training the new police force and in working with civilians to ensure the capacity to preserve peace and democracy following the withdrawal of british and american troops in that country. at times this was both a lonely, dangerous and indeed complex job. it was, however, a job made more difficult and more complicated by european bureaucracy and i would ask for your assurances that the people who now serve in afghanistan and kosovo will not be obstructed in the same way by bureaucrats in brussels.
blue-card question. – it is really a point of information. the european union does not have any troops whatsoever. there are troops in the armed forces of our nations, but the european union does not have any armed forces. i think we should be absolutely clear on that. i am afraid that trying to make these forced comparisons with the united states does not work.
mr president, on the day that our country has taken quite an unfair bashing in this chamber, i take exception, on behalf of our armed forces, to baroness ashton’s use of the term ‘our’ when talking about them and the hardware. i was in afghanistan a few weeks ago and saw at first hand the great job the british forces are doing there, protecting civilians, confronting terror and building an infrastructure. it is british taxpayers who are footing the bill for the second-largest contingent there, not germans, slovakians, greeks, luxembourgers, portuguese, italians, etc. baroness ashton, neither you nor any member of this chamber has a right to describe these forces or other member states’ forces as eu forces. the uk forces owe on oath of allegiance to her majesty and her government, not the eu. as already stated by fellow uk colleagues, nato is already in place and, as seen in libya, is effective. if you cannot get unanimity on the euro, how on earth can you do so on complicated security issues? one thing i have a real problem with, baroness ashton, is your part in this. as a former treasurer of cnd, you are talking about security policy with nations that have nuclear weapons. how on earth can you provide an objective view on this? there was a colleague in this chamber who mentioned a nuclear-free europe. that must have been music to your ears. you are not competent for this position.
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur. as european gdps fall, the percentage of spending on defence naturally falls as well, and will continue to fall. we had better get used to that. the economic and financial cuts added to this are pushing europe into a defence ‘trap’ where we will be unable to meet our present and future commitments should we not do something about it. individual nations are not in an industrial position to work alone. procurement, technology, new innovation: these approaches need, by their very nature, to be shared, pooled and made available for all. given europe’s special status as a continent split asunder by war over hundreds of years, we have a responsibility to maintain some coordination of our common security. in this case, the view that i have heard from some speakers, like mr van orden, that nato is the end of it, is simply wrong. i cannot see that his point about bureaucrats has anything to do with it. he was after all, as a staff officer himself, involved in brussels in much of the bureaucracy in the decision-making in nato and the commission. or so i understand – unless your wikipedia page is wrong. but perhaps you need to correct that before you start criticising.
mr president, i wanted to respond to my dear friend and colleague mr skinner’s point there. i very proudly served for 30 years as a military officer in her majesty’s armed forces on operational duties in many parts of the world. when i left the army in order to go into politics, while i was waiting for a seat i did indeed spend a short time in the european commission, where i had a very interesting insight into the ways that the commission worked. this has provided a very good background and experience for what i do now.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is my first parliamentary speech since last week’s events and i regret having to use the first sentence to say to you, my parliamentary colleagues, that the actions of the government of my country do not represent the views of my party or many of the people who i represent, and those actions do not represent me. as the socialist and democrats’ human rights spokesperson, can i welcome, however, the strategic review of human rights presented today by baroness ashton – long awaited. i absolutely endorse the aspiration to raise effectiveness, to achieve concrete results, to emphasise civil society, to better implement the recommendations of election observation missions, to continue the priority given to the defence of human rights defenders, to support the proposals for thematic campaigns and to move to a brussels-based council working group. we agree with the high representative emphasising a bottom-up approach, but may i tell her that in the last year i have asked eu delegations in two critical countries – i will not name them – who is their focal point on human rights and where is their human rights country strategy? i met silence in response. we know we have a long way to go. we agree with her that worldwide there is an attempt at erosion of international human rights and international humanitarian law, which is why i welcome her statement today towards considering the appointment of a special representative, perhaps specifically on international justice. just as we have failed states, let us be honest and say that the eu human rights dialogues and human rights clauses are close to being failed mechanisms – not to be abolished but requiring life-saving surgery. meanwhile bolstering our external advocacy, by strengthening internal respect for human rights, requires a mechanism not just an aspiration. the mainstreaming of human rights – a development in particular trade policies – has yet to really begin, not just compatibility in the language of the communication but coordination for common ends, using all our external relations instruments at one and the same time. i believe the benchmarks she identifies are the way forward. finally, as has been said, in the annual report this year i have been asked to provide an input to the review and i am pleased to do so. there will always be the need for some confidential communication on human rights abuses. but just as those who perpetrate war crimes or crimes against humanity must always be held to account, we who seek to uphold human rights must be held to account too.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is some good material in this strategy paper. i fully support one principal theme, and that is the importance of coherence. this is necessary not only across the range of external policies, but also in the form of consistency with our internal record. the eu cannot argue against torture and disappearance in the war on terror as effectively as is necessary when it has failed to fully clean house on our own collusion in secret prisons and rendition flights. our credibility in the desperately necessary battle for equality on the basis of sexual orientation is undermined by the shabby prejudice still suffered by lgbt (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) people in some eu states. our voice will not be heard sufficiently in condemning ethnic, racial and religious discrimination abroad when roma, muslims and even jews are not guaranteed proper freedoms and security at home. one procedural reform in the council might help, and that is to have joint meetings of the working party on human rights and the working party on fundamental rights, citizens’ rights and free movement of persons: cohom and fremp, to use our beloved acronyms. these are committees looking at human rights violations outside and inside the eu. it is however disappointing that the european parliament only merits seven lines in a 20-page document. ironically, those lines say that the european parliament has made human rights and democracy one of its highest priorities. well, not quite high enough to give us a central place, apparently, in an eu human rights strategy. this could probably have been written in the 1970s, taking absolutely no account of our enhanced role under the lisbon treaty. there is quite a long way to go before we have a fully coherent and fully credible human rights strategy.
mr president, in any type of democratic chamber you need to have consistency. earlier this afternoon, one of my uk colleagues was admonished by the vice-president for speaking off-topic when he began to talk about the uk situation last week. now mr howitt has also gone off-topic on the very important subject of human rights, and chosen to make party political points in a human rights debate. can you please admonish him for going off-topic, and show some consistency in this chamber?
mr president, baroness ashton recently went to the commonwealth meeting in australia at the taxpayers’ expense. one of the reasons you gave, baroness ashton, was to speak with some heads of state there. could you tell us, did you speak to some african heads of state, maybe ugandan heads of state, about homosexuality and its criminalisation there? hillary clinton has said that the us is going to give it its utmost priority. i just wondered, did you use that opportunity? and, by the way, how much taxpayers’ money did it cost to go there and why were you at the commonwealth meeting which has nothing to do with the eu? also, i just recently visited gaza and ramallah. when i asked about the treatment of lesbian women, the corrective rape, police beatings, etc., they looked at me with disgust as if it was something i should not have asked them or that it was not the eu’s business. bearing in mind the absolute fortune, the millions of taxpayers’ money from the eu that goes into gaza, some of which probably gets to hamas, etc., what are you actively doing to stop these corrective rapes of lesbian women in gaza?
madam president, like others, i welcome the rather tardy arrival of this communication, but nevertheless it is welcome in itself. it represents not, i think, what the vice-president/high representative defines as the beginning of a process, so much as the end of the examination of the subject from the point of view of the eeas, parliament, the commission and the council. when parliament finally produces its report – i hope very soon – i think that will end it, because we all know that human rights are a universal value, that the document itself defines democracy as a universal value. what i think is important is to accept the propositions made in the paper and to think about the new institutional balance we need to strike on this. yes, this year has been a challenge for all of us, but when – and i welcome this – the vice-president/high representative says she is open to the creation of a special representative for human rights, i hope she means that she is prepared to do this, because i know that the ngos, the european parliament and the human rights community generally want to see that expression of the commitment of the commission and the eeas to human rights. we need also a european endowment for democracy as another institutional element in the development of this process of democracy and human rights in the world. finally, i can tell the house that last night the bureau established the process for creating a european parliament office for democracy. that will be finalised in the new year. i welcome that very much.
madam president, we talk a great deal in this house about human rights and we have a record to be proud of. but we have an unfolding potential catastrophe, as baroness ashton well knows, in camp ashraf in northern iraq. we have been given a deadline by the iraqi government to clear camp ashraf of 3 400 defenceless refugees by the end of this year. that means we have 17 days left before there is a potential massacre. could baroness ashton please say that she condemns the deadline and she asks for this deadline to be rescinded by the iraqi government? could we please match the job of the un in giving security and funding to help evacuate these 3 400 people as quickly as possible out of iraq?
madam president, i very much welcome the strategic review that is being undertaken, and of course i see that the commissioner does take a very real personal interest in these matters. she must be quite sick to death of the number of letters that i keep writing to her about human rights issues by now, but she deals with them very diligently and i am obliged to her for that. commissioner, we actually have a problem here and it is quite clear to me that the flag that we display in our parliament in certain instances has a reputation of which we can be proud. in other instances it has a reputation for double standards. i see that displayed here today. for instance, in all of the comments that have been made, there has not been a single mention of the thousands and thousands of mass graves that have been discovered in the area of kashmir, only as recently as a matter of months ago and going back over the last year or so. we, of course, as a set of institutions, are currently in negotiations with india. if you want that agreement to pass through this house – and i am committed to that agreement – one of the things we have to do is to see how we can square that circle.
madam president, the high representative spoke of the importance of freedom of thought and expression, and free use of and access to the internet in all countries, but did not mention member states of the eu. however, non-violent and non-abusive freedom of expression in speech, writing and on the internet on political and academic subjects is denied even in member states of the eu. political parties that have no connection with violence or terrorism are banned in founder members of the european union. the recent discovery of a murderous nazi gang in germany quite rightly attracted utter condemnation and concern among the security services, largely because they were unaware of it. however, the announcement from mrs merkel that she would use this vile terrorist group as a pretext for seeking to ban a political party with which it had no connection was an appalling indictment of that country. it shows that the current leadership of germany has learnt nothing from its unfortunate history.
mr president, the conduct of the recent parliamentary elections in russia has clearly shown that there is deterioration in russian democracy. reports are widespread of electoral fraud, harassment and arbitrary detention of peaceful demonstrators by the authorities and with impunity for the election fraudsters, which all flies in the face of prime minister putin’s assurances that the elections were free and fair. it is somewhat unbelievable that no new political parties, including the main opposition party, the people’s freedom party or parnas, were allowed to register for participating in these elections. russia must be reminded that, as a member of the osce and the council of europe, it is legally obliged to safeguard the integrity of the electoral process. russia must also put an end to widespread corruption and massive self-enrichment at the highest levels of the state and government, as is illustrated by the tragic case of sergei magnitsky, who chose to expose the most egregious tax fraud and was, as a result, tortured to death in prison.
mr president, i had to leave the chamber temporarily at the end of the last debate to answer a constituent call, yet baroness ashton had a little bit of a dig at me. baroness ashton, i am sorry that you consider it so important that members actually have to be in the chamber to listen to you, but you are not very popular here, are you? there are 23 members here, less than 4%. you really should not upset me, as otherwise you would probably lose me as a regular attendee. but that does not diminish what i actually want to say about russia, which is a rather serious situation. but does it not really show the limitations? i could characterise russia as a big angry bear that we are trying to teach some manners to. the elections were a disgrace. they should be re-run, as they do not come up to any level of democratic accountability, but then what does the eu know about that? i believe that the russians call the eu a temporary phenomenon; well hopefully they are right about that. is it not the reality that there is absolutely nothing you can do? we can talk with them, but they will do whatever they want. it just shows the limitations of your position.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, over the past few months, i and other colleagues have raised from the floor of this house the whole issue of the way in which the regime was beginning to target those who were getting the message out via the internet and other means. it is on that basis that i welcome the ‘no disconnect strategy’ that has been announced by the commission. i thank the commission, and indeed the commissioner, for delivering on what she said she would. commissioner, in relation to the syrian national council, whilst i welcome the recognition of it, i must say that it is not entirely inclusive. therefore we have to ensure that we keep the door open for all groups. only last week i hosted a conference in parliament to which all opposition groups were invited. many attended who were not part of the snc. it is clear that, whilst of course it is right that they all maintain and indeed develop and promote their individual ideologies and policies, it is vitally essential that, unless they unite in the purpose of opposition, they will not realise their goals of freedom, democracy, transparency and above all the right to claim their country for themselves, a goal which the vast majority of syrians want to achieve.
in writing. – the attacks throughout syria perpetrated by the regime’s forces have increased in their brutality, with rape, torture and executions commonplace and more than 5000 deaths reported, and are reminiscent of the ruthless tactics during the 1982 hama massacre. president al-assad must immediately cease the use of lethal force against peaceful protestors, stand down from power and allow the citizens of syria to choose their own leaders by free and fair elections. time is running out for the baathist regime, and the international community must act decisively as it is likely according to the un commissioner for human rights that crimes against humanity have been committed. there is also looming danger that syria may be plunged into a bloody civil war, with the islamic republic of iran on one side and saudi arabia the other. i deeply regret the intransigence demonstrated by russia and china at the united nations security council in vetoing more hard-hitting sanctions against damascus, and call for the high representative to urgently increase her efforts to build an international consensus against the regime’s behaviour.
madam president, the european neighbour policy nobly aims to promote in our nearest neighbours democracy, human rights and prosperity. the idea is more for more, that is to say, the closer they get to us the more aid, trade and political concessions they get from the european union. our neighbourhood has experienced a tumultuous year. there have been widespread popular protests across the mediterranean southern shores brought about by the fall of despotic regimes, and to the east continuing tension between azerbaijan and armenia over nagorno-karabakh, and georgia with russia, and a clear deterioration in the democratic values in ukraine, with the arrest of the leading opposition figures. the recent victories for islamist parties in tunisia, egypt and morocco beg the question of whether the arab spring will shortly become the arab winter, as hopes for multiparty, pluralist free market democracies fade in the middle east and north african countries. for now we must carry on giving financial and technical support to all these countries to stabilise them and prevent civil unrest and mass migratory movements in our direction. clearly, though, if the european union sees a theocracy emerge in a large country like egypt, all bets must be off.
the next item is the report by andres perello rodriguez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2001/112/ec relating to fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption (com(2010)0490 – c7-0278/2010 – 2010/0254(cod)) (a7-0224/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 14 december 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by bill newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 648/2004 as regards the use of phosphates and other phosphorous compounds in household laundry detergents (com(2010)0597 – c7-0356/2010 – 2010/0298(cod)) (a7-0246/2011).
rapporteur. − mr president, actually there is a connection, because if you have a party and drink lots of fruit juices, then you have to do the cleaning up afterwards. so i think there is a direct logical link. that was a debate about helping consumers; this is about saving the world. so it is a very important debate. the commission proposal is to remove phosphates from the detergents which we put into domestic washing machines: not controversial, all member states appear to agree, and the commission produced a very good draft regulation. why we want to take out phosphates, i should add, is because, although they act as abrasives within the washing process and help to eliminate the dirt, when they are discharged into water they cause eutrophication, which leads to the growth of green algae that spreads across lakes and waters and seas, depriving wildlife of oxygen. so we need to remove them; everybody agrees on that. it came to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and we discussed it and thought it was a good step forward – thank you, commission, for the proposal – but why not throw in dishwashers as well, as they also use phosphates in their detergents? the committee voted by 48 to 8 to include dishwashers, and we thought: good, we are improving the situation for everybody. but there was a small problem. the council was taken by surprise by this change and did not agree. here i would like just to say a warm word of thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and the other members of the committee who helped, the committee secretariat and my own assistant – they did a fantastic job working on this and presenting a united front. so we talked closely to the polish presidency, who were also magnificent in their enthusiasm and cooperative spirit. they said that they did not have a majority in the council so this was very difficult, and so on. the big moment of change – the turning point – came when denmark had a national election, and the reluctant government of the right – which had been resisting dishwashers – changed to a new government. the new danish environment minister is a green and immediately sent a signal saying that he was reversing danish policy. suddenly there was a chink of light in the council position, and member states started to move towards parliament’s position, which was extremely pleasing. i asked to see my own minister in the member state i know best. he said he had absolutely no time at all to see me. i tried again: same refusal. the third time i was told i could have half an hour in about six weeks’ time. i finally got to see him and was told it was completely impossible to agree to this, so i retreated, dismayed and disappointed. meanwhile, keeping in touch with the polish presidency, we found things were moving very satisfactorily towards a majority in the council, so we embarked on an informal first reading conciliation to try and explore whether we could find grounds for agreement on a single first reading. the council worked very hard and we reached a final document – which is pretty much the document in front of you here – which recommends that both washing-machine and dishwasher detergents be included. we then waited with trepidation to see what coreper would actually make of this document we had negotiated and to our enormous pleasure the message came back a few weeks ago that coreper had agreed to parliament’s position by 25 member states to 2. to my amazement – and yours, mr president – our coalition government changed its position (but without telling me), meaning that it was no longer against the proposal. so this was a happy situation. colleagues, i want to recommend the position that we have got from parliament. it is a very good proposal and i hope that everybody can vote for this tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, that was a very good question. in fact this proposal, if approved, will reduce only a small amount of the phosphates that go into our waters. as you probably know, the largest proportion comes from the human body – partly from foods and drinks that we take in and then let out again. so this is a proposal that i hope the commission will make; perhaps the commissioner will address this point about how we can reduce other inputs of phosphates, including fertilisers. let us see if the commissioner answers the honourable member’s question.
mr schlyter, i recognise your blue card but i am advised that we are not allowed to take them for the commission. however, since i think it is quite a good idea – though i do not expect the commissioner to reply – you can have your half minute’s say.
rapporteur. − mr president, we shall all call it the ‘chichester precedent’ from now on. it was nice suddenly to get a moment of controversy brought in at the end, because this debate has been extremely harmonious. everybody agreed that we are doing the right thing, which is very satisfactory. i have written down in my speaking notes ‘everybody wins’. we shall all hopefully have cleaner clothes and cleaner dishes. the single market has been preserved. we heard that some member states are ahead while others are not, so we have a regulation that will apply universally throughout the single market, which is what we also want. and, of course, we shall have cleaner waters and cleaner rivers. the baltic and the danube will be cleaner as well. i would like to thank everybody – including the staff, the interpreters and everybody who has been here – and say to the commissioner that we look forward very much to his new proposals in 2012.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 14 december 2011). written statements (rule 149
mr president, firstly may i acknowledge the work of the polish presidency in recent months. however, prime minister, it is with no satisfaction that i stand before you now and say that the polish presidency will be remembered as one that has overseen the eu on its sickbed, the euro in perhaps terminal decline, and the eu institutions in denial as to the medicine required to cure the ills of its economy and its suffering people. what has also been alarming has been the sense that in the course of this presidency the institutions of the eu have become increasingly anti-british. actions have been taken with the sole intent of inflicting damage on the uk, and we have witnessed a growing anti-british rhetoric in this house. that is deeply regrettable for democracy and these institutions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would like to think that the british press, like the press in the rest of europe, particularly the press in germany that has been particularly anti-british over the last number of days, would have had little or no impact on a prime minister who had to decide what was right for the united kingdom. can i also say that this house tends to put on its blinkers when someone disagrees with it. difference can be good; it can be a force for good and can force others to look at other people’s views. it is not the united kingdom that these institutions have to convince that the agreement that was made last week will work: it is the markets. the markets have so far failed to be impressed and the people of europe will continue to suffer in the heat of the markets until these institutions show leadership.
mr president, the rotating presidency of the council since the lisbon treaty is not quite the position that it once was. presiding over the european councils passed to the president of that body, and presiding over the foreign affairs council has passed to the vice-president/high representative. furthermore, presiding over finance policy has moved out of the hands of the rotating presidency. it does still retain some function, but it seems that member states are such unpredictable creatures that they cannot be left to run eu institutions without being guided by a professional. it will be interesting to see how long presiding over the remaining functions will be left in the hands of the member state holding the rotating presidency. the function of the presidency, of course, is to preside over decisions that were initiated elsewhere and to grant member state authority to the legislative process, rather than to exercise power, which is exercised by permanent bureaucrats.
author. − madam president, i would like to thank the commission for having given parliament time to express its views on the draft scoreboard. the relevant recital of the regulation specifies that the commission should seek comments from the competent committee of the parliament before adopting the scoreboard. this oral question, with the accompanying motion for a resolution, is the response to this consultation. as you know, parliament has been very engaged on this topic. there was a very protracted debate in parliament, and with the council, in order to reach the final text in codecision on the ‘six-pack’, so this is a very sensitive subject for us. the scoreboard is an important tool for observing potential imbalances, even though the definitive measures are in any subsequent in-depth studies. parliament attached a high importance to the indicators having both upper and lower thresholds where appropriate, and envisaged this form of comparison as useful. in the draft, this is not the case for most of the indicators. of course it is not always appropriate to have both thresholds, but the working document does not explain the reasoning why there are not both in the majority of instances, and it would be helpful to have elaboration on that. the issue of current account surpluses was also a matter contained in the commission declaration. in particular, it said ‘macroeconomic surveillance covers countries with current account deficits and surpluses, with appropriate differentiation as regards the urgency of policy responses and the type of corrective actions required’. now of course the eu is not a closed economy – and it is very important that it is not – but, with regard to one another, we need to aim for better balance within a framework of promoting competitiveness. it is also noted that the commission working document refers to available economic literature, but no references are given. we consider that references, and a more complete explanation of the methodology, are appropriate. spill-over effects were also a significant part of our discussion and one of the objectives of budgetary coordination, and so we ask how the commission intends to deal with spill-over effects in the scoreboard. i think it is reasonable to consider the scoreboard as a ‘work in progress’, and it is noted that by the end of 2012 it is intended to set a new set of thresholds relating to financial sector indicators. there is clearly a potential relationship here with the european systemic risk board dashboard indicators. for my part, i suggest that domestic sifis may be one area to look at for inclusion in the macroeconomic scoreboard. also with regard to work in progress, not all of the elements specified for economic reading of the scoreboard in article 4 have yet been taken into account. we look for all of these to be included in the economic reading of the scoreboard, most notably in relation to employment, drivers of productivity and the role of energy. and now, more generally, how does the commission intend to implement the scoreboard as part of the agreed regulation on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances? in particular, how does it intend to implement the assessment of member states showing large account deficits or surpluses as part of the annual alert mechanism report? what measures will the commission take to make sure that it has timely statistics of the highest quality for inclusion in the scoreboard and its economic reading? finally, and as must be evident from what i have said concerning literature references and methodology, i would like to stress that a transparent implementation of this new policy instrument is of utmost importance throughout the procedure. therefore i urge in this respect that the commission ensures that any updates or reports on the functioning of this instrument are formally addressed both to the european parliament and to the council, and on an equal basis.
mr president, my understanding is that respect for human rights is now included in every fisheries partnership agreement and in every trade agreement that this parliament creates. is that not the case? can we be absolutely certain that what mr milana is asking for is accurate?
mr president, i too welcome the vote today approving a compromise on the fruit juices directive which aims to improve production standards and set rules for the quality and labelling of fruit juices. this will not only help consumers to make healthier choices, but also improve the added value of european products on the international markets. it is a very good deal for both the uk fruit industry and uk consumers. from now on there will be clear rules on what aromas and ingredients can be used. as a result, for example, the practice of labelling as ‘strawberry juice’ a product which contains more than 50% apple juice, and of which strawberries are only a minor ingredient, will now be banned. this will bring an end to marketing strategies that mislead consumers. the practice of adding sugar to fruit juices will also be prohibited. this will ensure that only genuine fruit juices are marketed as such in the eu. consumers will now be able to buy these products secure in the knowledge that the labelling accurately reflects what is in the can.
mr president, when i first worked on this directive i stopped drinking fruit juice. i stopped trusting what was on the label. one wonders if the labelling of fruit juice has any resemblance to what is in the product. that is why i am glad the amendments to the fruit juice directive mean that clearer labelling will give consumers more accurate information, not only on the sugar content, but on the actual quantity of fruit in these drinks. without this directive, manufacturers will be able to label a drink as strawberry juice, for example, when in reality there is only a touch of strawberry, a lot of flavouring and an apple base. the public has a right to know what is in the juice: if it is pure, is nectar or is made from concentrate; if it contains added sugar, no sugar, honey or sweeteners. we need to make it easy for customers to make a healthy choice. we need to ensure that there is transparency in the market. i hope the fruit juice directive will result in a high quality of fruit juice as opposed to sugary drinks.
mr president, i voted in favour of the perello rodriquez report. the report recommends sensible measures relating to consumer transparency and will allow eu citizens to more easily make informed and healthy choices as regards what they consume. i have to confess an interest here: i am a prolific juice-drinker myself. fruit-based beverages which originate from concentrate or have added sugar should be transparently labelled as such so as to prevent them from being mistaken for fresh or pure fruit juices, especially given the sometimes misleading packaging used by some manufacturers. a transitional period of 18 months would allow distributors and retailers to use up current stocks and adjust to the new, tougher guidelines. the report also reiterates the eu’s commitment to maintaining globally recognised labelling standards for fruit juices, which will ensure that eu products remain competitive on the global market.
mr president, i have voted in favour of the report on fruit juices and similar products intended for human consumption, as it quite rightly incorporates more of the provisions contained in the international codes, bringing the eu standards in line with other internationally recognised standards and codes of practice concerning food, food production and food safety. the report’s proposed amendments to the existing directive make the necessary clear distinction between fruit juices and drinks that have been produced from concentrate. there is more clarity in the labelling, which is critical for those of us who want to make a choice based on healthy options and want to know when there has been sugar added to the drink. this is going to lead to greater consumer choice and hopefully, over the longer term, lead to a healthier population, including in my welsh constituency.
mr president, the whole purpose of a free market is to swap on the back of differences. the purpose of the european union is to have exchange through comparative advantage, but in this report we see measures being proposed to protect and stimulate european manufacturers at the expense of those elsewhere. you would have thought, with everything going on in the world at the moment, that we would be aware of the dangers of repeating the mistakes of the 1930s and adding to a downturn with protectionism. the tragedy is that europe, by cutting itself off from the bits of the world that are still growing, is not only impoverishing consumers directly but is making itself economically irrelevant. we had an awful lot of talk yesterday about britain being isolated and standing aside. i would be very happy to rejoin the wider world when it is the eu as a whole which is isolating itself.
mr president, when reading this report, the phrase that stood out for me was the phrase ‘this report favours the consumption of local products’. so there we have it: let us favour local products at the expense of open trade and instead of helping producers in other countries to create wealth locally. this protectionist strand runs throughout the whole report and what we are going to see is a situation where we continue to support companies that cannot compete globally. when they get into trouble, what will they then do? they will seek a bailout from the european globalisation fund because they did not bother to take advantage of global supply chains and compete globally; they sought protectionism. of course, we all need to give more information to consumers and i think there is consensus about this across the house. let us say ‘yes’ to consumer information, let us say ‘yes’ to open trade and consumer choice, but let us say ‘no’ to european protectionism.
mr president, i believe strongly in free market forces. in order for markets to survive they must develop and advance their products in line with environmental targets. in the case of laundry detergents, industry has led the way, with almost all washing powders and liquids already free from phosphates. whilst i support this directive, i hold concerns on the addition of proposals to include dishwasher detergents. the chemicals used in dishwasher detergents are very different to the laundry detergents. however, small traces of phosphates will still be permitted in dishwasher detergents, with a honeymoon period until 2017. whilst we all agree that phosphates would ideally not be included, let me sound a warning. the environmental and health impacts of the new chemicals that will be needed to replace phosphates in dishwasher detergents are not yet fully assessed. we must therefore remain open and flexible until the science catches up with the political will.
mr president, i, too, voted in favour of the newton dunn report which deals with the use of phosphates and other phosphorous-based compounds in household laundry detergents. the central purpose of this report was to reduce the often devastating impact of eutrophication on the eu’s rivers, lakes and seas. eutrophication effectively chokes water of oxygen by encouraging weeds to grow. phosphates are a kind of fertiliser, thus disrupting the natural biodiversity of bodies of water, and have a huge detrimental effect on aquatic life. the rapporteur sought to allow legislation effectively to catch up with industrial best practice, as a majority of marketed laundry detergents are now effectively phosphate- free. despite my initial concerns over the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this matter, such as the short compliance timeline envisaged for its implementation, following the recent negotiations with the council i can now agree that this ban on phosphates usage could also be extended to dishwater detergents, with suitable derogations. realistic and reasonable limits have now been set at 0.5 grams per dose, paving the way for manufacturers to develop more compact and concentrated products to the benefit of our environment.
mr president, europe has long recognised the necessity of restricting the use phosphates in domestic laundry and other detergents to reduce the impact of their use on europe’s water courses – something which we are all concerned about. whilst the majority of laundry detergents on the market are already phosphate-free, as dictated by the market and consumer choice, i welcome the rapporteur’s proposal to extend the scope of the proposal to the dishwasher detergent market. with a phosphate limit being set at 0.5 grams per dose, this will give the manufacturers the impetus to develop more compact products through innovation in the industry. flexibility in its implementation will, however, be necessary to ensure that consumer choice across europe is not limited in the interim period.
mr president, i very much welcome the way parliament voted today on the eu-fisheries partnership agreement when it decided to reject the agreement. i voted against the report, as it is probably the least successful of all the fisheries agreements currently in force. for a number of reasons, i believe that we should have rejected the report and i am glad the parliament did. for a start, it is a poor deal for european taxpayers, with a return of only 65 cents for every euro the european union is investing. from a sustainability point of view, the stocks we are accessing are already overfished, so not only are we heavily subsidising jobs, but we are doing so while exporting ecologically unsustainable fishing practices. on top of that, only 15% of the funds allocated for sectoral support in the agreement have been used to date. there is also remaining legal uncertainty on this agreement under international law as far as the rights of the people of western sahara are concerned. i was disappointed that the committee on fisheries voted for the agreement, despite opposition from both the committee on budgets and the committee on development, but i am very glad that today the parliament took the right decision. i hope we can strike a better agreement when this will be reviewed once again in february 2012.
mr president, the european community and the kingdom of morocco agreed a fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) in may 2006, which came into force in february 2007. the commission has since conducted negotiations with morocco in order to renew this fpa by a single initial protocol, which was expiring, and to extend it by one year. a protocol to renew the preceding protocol for the period of 2011 to 2012 has been provisionally applied. however, before it could come into force it obviously needed parliament to adopt it. as it was a time-limited extension to a previous agreement, i could support the committee on fisheries recommendation. given the vote, however, we now need to ensure that local people are beneficiaries of all our fisheries policies over the long term and, as such, need to ensure that any agreement on future protocols is subject to stringent criteria as set out in the resolution we agreed and voted on today.
mr president, the common fisheries policy is being transformed from a european into a global tragedy; having emptied, exhausted and sterilised our seas we now export the same practices to more vulnerable and poorer countries and we have the same basic flaw, which is lack of ownership rights which would have incentivised conservation. there are successful fisheries’ conservation schemes around the world in new zealand, in norway, in iceland, in the falkland islands but all of them are based on giving skippers a sense of property so that they treat fisheries as a renewable resource. we tragically suffer from common ownership which makes it impossible to persuade fishermen to tie up their boats knowing that other nations’ vessels are at large in the same seas. surely having created this ecological catastrophe in our own waters, we should now draw back before we inflict it on others.
mr president, given the failure of the common fisheries policy in europe and the way that our seas do not have sufficient fish, what is interesting about this is the way that, as my colleague said earlier, we now seek to make agreements that are unsustainable with other countries. because of this lack of ownership rights, which led to the failure of the cfp, we are now seeing the lack of ownership rights in other countries and we worry about the future of fish in those areas. the real problem here is that where there are no ownership rights, a government seeks that ownership on behalf of its citizens, but in the case of morocco, not only on behalf of its own citizens, but on behalf of the western saharan people, too. in this case, what will happen is that they will plunder those seas and local fishermen will lose out. when local fishermen lose out from such deals, what do they seek to do in many cases? they seek a better life in the west, in europe. what do we then do in this house? we complain about immigration – when we have destroyed their jobs. let us make sure we look at the full impact of these agreements and let us not destroy the seas of other countries.
mr president, the financial crisis means we need to make cuts to public spending even in the area of defence. in the uk, this was made worse by the fact that the last labour government left the present coalition with gbp 38 billion of unfunded commitments. however, in the field of defence, as everywhere else, i do not believe the answer is ‘more europe’. ‘more europe’ means more costs as eu bureaucrats create super-structures, with super-budgets to match. we must avoid expensive duplication of nato structures and ensure that the eu has nothing to do with defence. i am proud of the british armed forces, which are a symbol of our national sovereignty and security. no matter how bad the economic crisis may be, britain will continue to defend itself, as i would expect all sovereign nations to do.
mr president, the report on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector rightly notes the trend of cuts in the defence budgets of the majority of eu member states. it also alludes to the possible negative impact that these measures may have on their military capabilities. however, i believe that the report itself makes the wrong proposals to address this issue, which is why i have voted against the report. it suggests that the strategic autonomy of the eu should be enhanced by acquiring more synergy in defence planning measures, such as through better coordination of defence planning – a laudable objective but one which would require harmonisation of military requirements and significant measures to increase interoperability. it continues by proposing other measures to pool and share certain capabilities and support structures through eu institutions, which i am fundamentally opposed to. member states’ defence policies can of course be more coordinated if they so choose, but this should be through choice by national parliaments and not be an eu competence.
mr president, it is clear that what is intended by this report is a greater role for the eu in defence and security policy, and therefore i am unable to support it. i believe that because in all policy areas my constituents want less europe and less interference from brussels, not more. that is especially so in this case, since much of what is talked about in the report is purely a very poor imitation of what we already have in the nato structures. it is inevitable that amongst 27 member states there will be significant differences in interest and opinion, and these differences should not be feared when they are fair and reasonable. the place for the formulation and implementation of security policy and defence policy is the member state, not brussels, and therefore i could not support the report.
mr president, the european neighbourhood policy review acknowledges the challenges faced by the eu and crucially takes into account the recent events of the arab spring uprisings. recently we have seen the overthrow of long-standing regimes in egypt, tunisia and libya and continuing violence in syria, to name a few countries seeking a new democratic structure. the report sensibly suggests that our approach should be to support further progress towards deep democracy and to support sustainable social and economic development in our neighbouring countries. it also recognises the need to build effective regional partnerships, as this is in the interests of the eu as a whole and best done collectively. it is for these reasons that i have been able to support this report.
mr president, whilst i agree with a number of important principles that underpin the european neighbourhood policy, such as supporting progress towards a functioning democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law in neighbouring countries, i did not support this report. through the european neighbourhood policy the eu hopes to fuel the economic development of bordering areas. however, as we are in the crucial and dangerous stages of our own crisis, we must ask ourselves: is the provision of an additional eur 1 billion for the enp until 2013, and a further proposed budget of eur 18.2 billion for the period from 2014 to 2020, the best way to utilise this money for the benefit of citizens in eu member states, especially when the money allocated to the previous policy failed to support those who in the arab spring fought against merciless dictators, many of whom this house and the leaders of eu institutions had fêted and praised?
mr president, as a representative of northern ireland, and having lived through a terrorist campaign waged in our province for over thirty years, effective counter-terrorism strategy remains a priority in my constituency. sadly, there remains a rump within republicanism who still cannot comprehend that their objectives cannot be reached through murder and mayhem. while it is right that we should prioritise the threat of organisations such as al-qa’ida, we should not forget the threat posed in individual member states. i condemn unreservedly the shooting of a young man in londonderry this morning, in my constituency. effective anti-terrorism measures are a must. anti-terrorism measures must be coordinated across national borders and in line with a threat-based approach. the sharing of data is important, as long as the necessary safeguards are in place. there is some merit in this report, but i could not support some aspects of it and therefore i abstained.
mr president, international pressure and cooperation is an invaluable tool in the fight against global and local terrorism alike. i can therefore see the benefits of member states working together on counter-terrorism measures and the eu has already made significant progress in counter-terrorism work, such as in the sharing of international banking data and air passenger security. whilst the report on the eu’s counter-terrorism policy puts forward some sensible measures to the policy, such as a risk-based approach that is tailored to each member state and the need to examine the costs and the current allocation of european spending, there are still a number of areas that require clarification. i am not comfortable with permitting the eu institutions to act as the facilitator of intelligence sharing between member states as this should not be an eu competence. issues concerning national security are a member state competence and should remain so. terrorists do not respect borders; they act globally. counter-terrorism measures need equally to reflect a global, not solely eu, focus.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which allows iceland and montenegro to be placed on the list of countries qualifying for pre-accession assistance.
in writing. − i and the ecr group which i coordinate on the committee on foreign affairs voted today to support the albertini report on amending the instrument for pre-accession. the enlargement of the eu to 27 member states has been a great success story, although enlargement fatigue has now set in. i am the standing rapporteur of the parliament for montenegro and i am pleased that montenegro and macedonia have now been moved from potential candidates to candidates for eu membership under ipa. but i deeply regret that at the european council summit last friday, in spite of recommendations from the commission and – in the case of montenegro – for reasons of domestic politics in a couple of member states and - in the case of macedonia – for reasons of the name the country uses to describe itself, which is objected to by greece, they have still been blocked in council as candidates from opening negotiations. this is deeply frustrating to their governments and also deeply unfair to their people.
in writing. − reliable and clear information to consumers is vital and it is welcome that accurate information on fruit juice packaging has been a priority for the rapporteur and those at the negotiating table. the key factor for me, and i think for many consumers, in this is the clear distinction between a product that is a fruit juice and those that are a fruit juice from concentrate. i am glad this key difference will remain clearly identifiable to the consumer, as indeed the health benefits in terms of vitamin intake can be quite stark between a pure fruit juice and a concentrate. we want fruit juices to be an easy way to reach the recommended five a day of a healthy diet, and that consumers have the information to make an informed choice.
in writing. − i supported this report which will enable european consumers to make more informed decisions.
in writing. − the european union produces high quality fruit juices which contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are manufactured according to the sustainability standards supported by our laws. it is therefore fair that we should defend these same high standards of quality for all products being marketed in the eu. without seeking to question any form of import policy, this report favours the consumption of local products, those which do not have to be transported over vast distances, generating co2 emissions, which are produced under social and labour conditions which are acceptable under community law and which are manufactured according to the food safety principles established by the eu. this is not a matter of european protectionism, but reflects the continued pursuit of sustainability in all sectors of our economy. the overall quality of a product can also be measured by its ethical quality, its ecological quality and its social quality.
in writing. − this report principally concerns updates to the existing legislation for fruit juices. i am nevertheless pleased to have voted for it, as i have worked long and hard for measures to provide greater transparency for consumers in the food and drink that they buy. in order for consumers to be able to make informed choices – on where their food comes from, how it was produced, what it contains or what nutritional or health value it has – they must be given the necessary information in a clear, easy-to-understand way. in this case, that means making sure that what manufacturers label as ‘fruit juice’ is really what consumers understand to be fruit juice, and in particular distinguishing it from drinks made from concentrate. the updates in this report will provide further clarity for consumers.
in writing. − i welcome today’s vote on this report which will go some way towards reducing harm to the environment.
in writing. − i voted for tough restrictions on the amount of phosphates that can be used in washing powder, and socialist meps were successful in extending the restrictions to dishwasher detergents. we need to restrict the use of phosphates in detergents because an accumulation of them in the water supply causes excess algae growth. too much algae causes an imbalance in the ecosystem which can result in ecosystem problems such as dead fish. this has been a big problem in the baltic sea, but can affect all rivers, lakes and seas. this is a perfect example of why we need a european union of twenty-seven nations acting together: you cannot control polluted water in one country if it simply appears in another. we all need the same restrictions. eutrophication is the unhealthy growth of plants leading to an increase in bacteria and lack of oxygen which results in dead fish and, in certain areas of the uk, has led to dead pets such as dogs. phosphates are used in varying amounts in laundry and dishwasher detergents. areas with hard water need them more than areas with soft water.
in writing. − i am very pleased that this report on limiting the use of phosphates in household detergents in order to combat eutrophication of water bodies in the natural environment has been passed by parliament. eutrophication, which causes the accelerated growth of bacteria, algae and other plant life in a water body, can be a serious environmental problem, killing higher sea life and plants and upsetting the balance of local ecosystems. when eutrophication affects sources of drinking water, there are also risks to public health. nevertheless, this can be reduced or avoided by limiting the use of phosphates in the detergents we use and switching to alternative ingredients, and these are the aims of this legislation. i am pleased that, because of the input of my socialist and democrat colleagues on the envi committee, the report was strengthened to include dishwasher detergents, a significant source of phosphates.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution on the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) because of economic, legal, environmental and moral reasons. the eu and morocco concluded a fpa on 22 may 2006. an outside consultancy prepared an ex-post evaluation report, on behalf of the european commission, which evaluates the first four years of the fpa with morocco. on a general note, it states that ‘the results of this first four-year period of the new fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and morocco are generally rather disappointing’ as the agreement fails to stabilise the eu market and to develop the fisheries sector. moreover, the population of western sahara, the sahrawi people who suffer under the unlawful and unacceptable occupation of their country by morocco, does not benefit from this agreement. morocco has no right to dispose of the natural resources of a territory which does not fall under its sovereignty. for more than 30 years the western sahara’s problem has been dealt with by the united nations, but without any progress whatsoever. by rejecting the fpa, the european parliament sent a strong signal to the moroccan government that the eu cannot support an agreement with a country which violates human rights.
in writing. − today’s vote sends out two strong messages. this parliament is no longer willing to sign off fisheries agreements regardless of their impact on citizens in countries outwith the eu. and this house respects the right to self-determination – a right which the moroccan government has not given to the people of western sahara. morocco has no right, under international law, to sell the natural resources of western sahara. it follows, therefore, that the eu should not be paying morocco for fishing rights in the waters off western sahara.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which was for a one-year extension of the expired protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, in order to give the commission time to establish whether morocco is in compliance with international law by providing evidence that the eu’s financial contribution is used to benefit the people of western sahara.
in writing. − i have taken a strong interest in the eu morocco fisheries agreement and with my political group voted against the proposal. i believe that eu fisheries agreements are often flawed in that they encourage industrial fishing on a scale which threatens conservation of marine resources, as well as allowing european fisherman to deprive local fishing communities of a livelihood. in theory, the money paid to the governments of countries like morocco should flow back to the local people to compensate. in the case of morocco this not the case and indeed morocco does not respect the un resolutions granting the right of self-determination to the western saharan people through a plebiscite and has not compensated the saharawi people for their loss of fishing rights in proportion to the size of the western saharan coastline. for all these reasons i reject the proposal.
in writing. − i am sceptical about eu fisheries agreements in general, and am not clear what the benefit to the uk, or indeed to morocco itself, would be from the proposed eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. in addition, the scope of this agreement bears particularly on the western sahara region, whose international status remains unclear. however, the moroccan government is a friendly government with a helpful counter-terrorism policy and is currently taking steps to improve democratisation in the kingdom. therefore i have very mixed feelings about a number of aspects of a complex issue and i abstained.
in writing. − one of the principal aims of the european union is to promote european values in the world and to set an example to the world on issues such as the rule of law, social justice and the environment. it is for this reason that i and my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party followed parliament’s committee on development and committee on budgets in voting against this report. evaluations of the agreement have shown it to cause a net economic loss to the eu, whilst failing to aid the development of the fisheries sector in morocco and failing to prevent over-exploitation and promote sustainable fishing. there are also important, and still unresolved, questions over whether the agreement complied with international law in terms of whether it benefits the people of western sahara. rather than extending the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, we believe that a new agreement must be brought forward urgently to deal with the serious problems we have seen with the current agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal to alter the numerical strength of the standing committees. following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the lisbon treaty, the new members are entitled to sit in the european parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights.
in writing. − i voted for this report in order to allow the new members to take their place on delegations.
in writing. − i voted for the appointment of benoît coeuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and for amendment 2 which says that any future protocol should respect the wishes of the people of the western sahara.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recognises bilateral and regional initiatives such as the 2010 uk-french defence agreements, the nordic defence cooperation and the baltic defence cooperation as important steps for rationalising the use of resources and fill short-term capability gaps; notes the proposals for similar cooperations in other regions, such as among the visegrád group countries; takes the view, however, that significant structural gaps remain which need to be addressed in a coordinated fashion at eu level and that, therefore, at a certain point these bilateral or regional arrangements need to be integrated into the wider european perspective, making sure that they contribute to the development of csdp and do not, in any way, run counter it; in this context, believes that the eda should be given a role in ensuring overall coherence of efforts and encourages further reflection on how the treaty provisions on the permanent structured cooperation could be used to provide an overall coordination framework.
in writing. − while it appears to be a well researched report containing much useful information, this report is a manifesto for eu defence integration and so rejected by the ecr group. it largely ignores nato, to which we attach primary importance. it emphasises the very questionable concept of ‘pooling and sharing’ with all the problems of political unreliability that this involves. it seeks to boost the ‘strategic autonomy of the eu’ when importance should instead be attached to operating alongside the forces of our greatest ally, the united states. and the innocent-sounding ‘harmonisation of military requirements’ takes us down the dangerous path of eu procurement of defence equipment. while we support transparency in offset arrangements, this is a matter best left to individual countries. we are in favour of increased investment in defence r&d, provided this comes from compensating reductions in other eu budget areas. we cannot support the various schemes such as the so-called european security and defence college and eu funding of military exchanges and training schemes, which are merely designed to inculcate some bogus idea of a ‘european identity’ to supersede our national identity and loyalty. the entire thrust of the report and its conclusions are misguided.
in writing. − whilst i support democracy and human rights, i feel the eu has no right to lecture other countries on democracy, as it has an unelected president, ignores referendum results that displease it and appoints unelected prime ministers. i do however, feel the accusations of vote rigging in russia are serious, and would like to see these allegations investigated by a third party.
in writing. − ukip supports democracy and human rights. however, we feel the eu has no right to lecture other countries on democracy, as it has an unelected president, ignores referendum results that displease it and appoints unelected prime ministers. we do however, feel the accusations of vote rigging in russia are serious, and would like to see these allegations investigated by a third party.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which welcomes the demonstrations in russia as an expression of the will of the russian people for more democracy; condemns the crackdown by the police on peaceful demonstrations protesting about election irregularities and fraud reported by international observers; urges the russian authorities to respect freedom of assembly and expression, to leave peaceful demonstrators unharmed and to release immediately and unconditionally all peaceful demonstrators that have been arrested in the context of the elections; calls for an immediate and full investigation of all reports of fraud and intimidation, and penalties for those found responsible, and hopes that president medvedev’s order to investigate this proves substantial and transparent.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recognises that, as far as our eastern neighbourhood policy is concerned, the human rights situation should be continuously monitored – with particular regard to the rights of children, women and minorities – and human rights dialogues conducted with all partner countries, and that an annual assessment of the situation as well as the outcomes of the dialogues should be included in the annex to the annual progress report of each partner country with a clear mechanism to reconsider and progressively limit bilateral cooperation if human rights violations are confirmed. it underlines that the approach towards various partner countries regarding the human rights situation has to be credible.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 1 which was carried and, as a result, the whole resolution fell.
in writing. − we need a full assessment of counter-terrorism policy within the eu. in recent years, the need for an effective policy in this area has become vital. however, we need a full evaluation of what impact these measures have for democratic scrutiny and civil liberties, and we also need to look at the cost-effectiveness of eu counter-terrorism policy. i support calls for the commission to draft a report on the financial implications of the policy by looking at how and where the money is spent. i also believe it is important to examine budget lines created since 2001 relevant to counter-terrorism research funding.
the next item is the report by michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (recast) (com(2008)0229 – c6-0184/2008 – 2008/0090(cod)) (a7-0426/2011).
rapporteur. − madam president, can i start by thanking colleagues that have worked with me on this dossier for what seems a very long time now. there may be some differences between most of us and the european people’s party but i am sure that we can overcome those differences in the long term. i will put this debate in context, because it is not only about access to documents. the debate is about the pre-condition of democracy: access to documents is, according to the charter of fundamental rights, fundamental to citizens and therefore any exceptions to that right have to be narrowly defined and justified. only through transparency can citizens participate in an informed way in the democratic process, which is even more important in the current crisis. what we are talking about is a right that allows citizens and their representatives outside parliament and the institutions to make sure that we are accountable: parliamentarians accountable for what we do in their name; the commission accountable for what they do; and equally the council of ministers accountable too. as we know, meetings of the council of ministers currently take place behind closed doors. if we knew how our ministers and our prime ministers vote in their secret meetings, we would be able to hold them to account in the national parliaments – hold them to account not on how they report but what they say in those meetings and how they vote. it would also, i believe, destroy the media myth that unpopular measures from brussels are imposed on national governments, whereas the contrary is true. national governments have to agree. it is also about building trust between the eu and its citizens, whereby a mixing of concepts from member states and eu should be avoided. that is why i believe that at eu level we should become a model for our member states on transparency. i will use the remaining amount of my time at the end of the debate to respond to any points and to any questions that arise during the debate.
rapporteur. − madam president, i am afraid that was a deliberate attempt to mislead this house. it is quite clear to me from the opposition that is coming from the epp group, that they have failed to read the entire regulation. you cannot select one article or one recital; because there are checks and balances. mr pirker, i ask you to go back, read the regulation in its entirety and look at the exceptions covered in article 4. all of the concerns raised here this afternoon are a mere camouflage because of the fact that you do not want to give citizens their right of access and accountability.
madam president, freedom of information was one of those universally popular objectives, or at least i thought so until this afternoon, although few contemplate the justified exceptions and even fewer choose to exercise this right. possibly one reason might be lethargy or lack of interest, but another might be ignorance that there is anything to look for. i think it was donald rumsfeld who distinguished between what we know we don’t know and what we don’t know we don’t know. in the case of the former, we can employ our knowledge to seek the unknown, but in the latter case we cannot seek a document the existence of which we are entirely ignorant. perhaps there should be a publicly accessible register of documents, or some proactive attempt to make sure that lobbyists know of them. there is also the problem that discussions which are very sensitive, but not classified or legally restricted information, might take place without a paper or electronic record or that discussions by email might be routinely deleted. is it anticipated there might be any rules preventing documents being destroyed or prescribing that record should be taken and should not be destroyed?
madam president, you, i and the rapporteur mr cashman are, according to ms sargentini, from the ‘plus one’. well, let us hope that is ‘minus one’, and according to most of this chamber you will probably be most happy. i welcome the strong approach taken in this report; it is right and proper that transparency is given its correct importance. i am unsurprised by mr cashman wanting this because for the pro-europeans in the uk it is becoming a much more difficult job trying to sell the european union and the secrecy of the european union: its unaudited accounts or unsuccessfully audited accounts have for many years been a difficult sell within the uk. something will need to be done. i would point out that it was the labour government who brought in the freedom of information act in 1997 in the uk and it ultimately caused them a lot of problems. i am unsurprised that they are hoping to put the conservative party in a difficult position in the council, although they were very disingenuous when they were in power. i do sound a note of caution though on what i hear from the commission, which is that they have no intention of being transparent, nor does the epp when they are talking about undermining institutions and about a legitimate report. who will decide what a legitimate report is? they will never allow transparency because they do not want it.
rapporteur. − madam president, i look forward to negotiating with the commission. that will be a first, so let us meet soon. i would just like to address some of the points. we actually enshrine the concept of a space to think; we do not diminish it. we actually enshrine the concept of classified documents, mr pirker, so it is absolutely clear that documents that are restricted, classified or confidential cannot be made public. equally, we deal with the issue of documents coming from member states. member states would like to have a veto so that they cannot be placed in the public domain, whereas there are cases where they should be, such as documents in competition law proceedings and for businesses. i believe that if articles 4(2) and 4(7) of the current regulation are used appropriately, then there are sufficient guarantees for competition cases and for businesses. this approach is not about unrestricted access. we have to be clear about definitions, clear when documents cannot be made accessible, and equally clear when they can. we must reflect the jurisprudence that has been handed down, and we must balance data protection and privacy. let me say that it is entirely wrong to say that privacy and personnel maters will not be respected. they are absolutely respected and the data protection supervisor says that in our report we have got the balance absolutely right. i would remind you that there is also a directive on data protection which cannot be overridden here. there is also the members’ statute about political meetings, about the conduct of meps and about personnel which cannot be overridden within this regulation. it is either mischief or it is ignorance that causes people to propose such suggestions. can we please stop treating our citizens, and indeed the ngos that represent them, as children? they want to be engaged in the political process, and if they do not know what we are doing in their name, and what the commission and the council is doing, how on earth can we call ourselves ‘democratic’? democracy is based on openness and accountability and, if we can only negotiate in secret, where is the democracy in that? we negotiate on the basis of principle and on what we wish to actually defend for our citizens and indeed our political parties. if we can only do that in secrecy, i am not one of those politicians and i do not belong to one of those political parties that concur. you can criticise this but, ms sommer, i have begged you time and time again to work with me and to bring forward compromises, but comprises came there none. where there are problems, i am happy to address them on behalf of the entire parliament because the brilliant thing is that whether this gets voted through or not tomorrow is neither here nor there. whether the commission accepts this is irrelevant. whether the council negotiates on this is irrelevant, because what you cannot do, which is what the commission and indeed the council are trying to do, is to diminish the rights they gave to citizens in 2001. so even if we reject the entire proposal, the rights that were enshrined in 2001 under the swedish presidency will remain. i think i have covered most of the points. can i say that inflexibility in democracy is actually a weakness. flexibility is a strength, and we show that in our committees when we negotiate with one another and we reach compromises. thank you, ms macovei, thank you, ms bildt, for your constructive comments. i would say to nikki sinclaire that the labour government actually supported these measures in 2001 in council and the labour government continued to do so while it was in office. if we are pro-european, let us actually get rid of the secrecy because then it is much more difficult to misrepresent the truth. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. − madam president, i welcome the comments by ms sommer. we often accuse technology of many things, but i have never received one compromise amendment from the epp group. if you have them, even as late as today, i will consider them this evening and, if necessary, adjust my voting list because, as you know, ms sommer, i am always reasonable. on the issue of data protection and the balance, can i just say to you, do not take my word for it but take the word of the european data protection supervisor who believes, looking at the bavarian judgment case, that we have got the balance absolutely right. i would refer you to my amendments no 10 and no 40, which balance absolutely the right of privacy and data protection. as i started, let me finish again: thank you very much for your comments. if you have compromise amendments, as late as this evening, i would still like to review them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the green group to thank mr fleckenstein and other political shadows for the very positive way in which this report developed. there was much to agree on and little to dispute, and that was because we believe that emsa is doing a very good job. i was particularly pleased to see three elements in this report. the first was an increased role for the european maritime safety agency in the monitoring of offshore oil and gas installations; the second increased preparedness to provide a response to maritime accidents; and the third an increase in partnership working to deliver maritime surveillance, including the safeseanet programme, hopefully linking up with some of the policies recently approved in our integrated maritime policy. i did attend an emsa conference in their new centre in lisbon, and i must say i was very impressed with the breadth of their operations and their commitment to delivering safety on the sea. i commend this report to you and thank mr fleckenstein.
madam president, the european maritime safety agency, which was set up in the wake of the erika oil tanker incident, carries out an important role in pollution response and should be commended for its work in this area, which was emphasised by my good colleague, peter van dalen. however, this latest modification of the emsa regulation extends that competence. this may seem harmless and even beneficial for member states, but the ‘s’ in emsa stands for ‘safety’ and this must not be forgotten. this is not a social services agency. i am particularly concerned about extending emsa’s competence to include the analysis of the safety of mobile off-shore and gas installations. oil and gas installations are currently regulated to a very high international standard and duplication is not needed. the same applies to the fight against piracy, the training of seafarers and the certification of ships. there i agree with the commission’s position. i also do not support the creation of a european coastguard. we have seen competency creep before, and i would not want to see it here. in conclusion, increased competency means increased costs, and in these difficult economic times any calls for increases in funding must be supported by rigorous justification. i am afraid i do not see ample justification here.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking mathieu grosch for his tremendous work on this report. unfortunately, however, this does not change the uncomfortable foundations for the report – that is to say the commission’s white paper on which it is based. now i want to be fair to the commission document; it does make some positive suggestions about the need for a fully functioning multimodal network and the importance of modernising our air traffic management system via sesar. however, the report has a major flaw in my opinion. yet again, the commission believes more regulation and more eu intervention are the answer. indeed, at a time when confidence is one of the most important factors for our businesses across the eu, the last message we should be sending is one of stifling growth. as such, the proposals in this report to harmonise work and social conditions and various other measures in that sector are beyond reason. what we should be doing is repealing punitive legislation, not adding to it. moreover, the suggestions in the report for increased taxation on certain transport modes send a damaging message to industry. the report also calls for an increase in road charging. i must ask how the commission believes this could possibly not be a contradiction of their stated aim not to curb mobility. the same applies to the idea of banishing vehicles with traditional combustion engines from city centres. it is as unachievable as it is undesirable, especially in these times of economic difficulty. the report is interventionist to its core and holds no regard for the principle of subsidiarity. here we have the opportunity to send out a positive message to business that we will boost the internal market and support growth. instead we have a document which is punitive to business, our economy and therefore our citizens.
mr president, a thriving and sustainable transport sector is hugely important to the uk and europe as a whole, but having the right transport policy is essential to ensure competitiveness, future economic growth and much needed jobs across the eu. this means that we do need a long-term vision for transport policy. ensuring that future growth in the sector is sustainable is a major challenge, and we should discuss ways to encourage and assist industry in reaching those objectives. however, i am concerned that the report now lacks a balanced approach. it seems to only offer one solution to improve the sustainability of the transport sector, and that is legislation, legislation or more legislation. it is now too prescriptive and too burdensome, and most of this will lead to extra spending at both national and eu level. where is the money coming from? why not look for alternatives to regulatory options, such as the sharing of best practice? we must also take into consideration the efforts made by many sectors to reduce their carbon footprint. for example, in the aviation sector, huge efforts have been made to improve technology through manufacturing and operational changes, but this is never recognised – certainly by some members of this house – and the single european sky, which we hugely support in ecr will, of course, be a great asset in the future in dealing with congestion and other issues. we just need to get the member states cracking on that, and i am sure the commissioner will agree. in conclusion, if we are to call ourselves sensible legislators, then we must come forward with a rigorous prioritisation of these transport initiatives that will reduce the burden on our already overstretched eu budget, encourage industry and, most importantly, help keep our constituents moving.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are told that detention conditions are a national responsibility. it is shocking then that over one third of member states have not ratified the protocol to the un convention against torture, which establishes a system of inspection visits. we should be ashamed that the council of europe committee for the prevention of torture is having to take an interest. pre-trial detention is meant to be an exceptional measure, but we have member states where the majority of the prison population is made up of people who have not been convicted of any crime. as commissioner kallas has said, non-nationals are given an exceptionally bad deal. my constituent andrew symeou was held in greece for almost two years in pre-trial detention, in horrendous conditions before his case finally came to trial and where a greek national would almost certainly have been granted bail. he was, be it noted, acquitted. member states should implement the european supervision order as an alternative to pre-trial detention, but we also need common rules to cut down abuses. on which note i would draw attention to the fact that the italian president has said that the situation of prisons in italy is a democratic emergency. my former mep colleague marco pannella, a very brave man, is on hunger strike in protest. we have to give our support for fundamental rights, including in prison.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, when the european arrest warrant was proposed and steered through the european parliament by a british liberal democrat mep, it was already obvious then that the clear consequence of the european arrest warrant would be that british citizens and residents, and for that matter citizens and residents of other member states, would be carted off to countries where conditions in prison are of a lesser standard. that was totally obvious. but in this place there is an obsessive determination for there to be europe, europe and yet more europe, and parliament and the commission then ignored the inconvenient truth that detention conditions are simply not the same in the 27 member states. those of us who represent constituents ensnared in the net of the european arrest warrant have become well aware of the grim prison conditions which can await them on remand and so on. for that reason i commend to you amendment no 1 and related amendments. whilst the european arrest warrant continues, nobody should be transferred to a jurisdiction where prison conditions fall below the standard in the home country. baroness ludford very eloquently made the point, and i assume she is right, that in some member states a majority of people in detention are on remand and, assuming that this is true, so long as this applies, the european arrest warrant should be suspended, and suspended with immediate effect.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask my colleague, who mentions the deplorable conditions in some eu detention centres, whether she would join my colleague, the earl of dartmouth, in calling for the suspension of the european arrest warrant? today we have applauded with a standing ovation the sakharov prize. how can we talk about human rights in one vein, and be very sanctimonious and supportive of it, when in the european union itself we have detention standards that are below common decency for human beings? will she join me, and everyone else, in calling for the suspension of the european arrest warrant?
mr president, it is for each member state to decide on domestic legislation by itself. however, this matter is not being discussed in a vacuum; it is being discussed in the context of the appalling european arrest warrant. there is no requirement for the country seeking a warrant to provide any evidence that the person has committed the offence, still less to meet any standard of proof. indeed, the court processing the warrant cannot refuse to extradite on the ground of insufficient evidence. it can refuse only on the grounds of one of the five legal bars to extradition. some people extradited on the warrant have to spend months in custody awaiting trial. whilst i too would like to see the arrest warrant suspended or abolished, that is not going to happen. in the meanwhile, countries must be persuaded to adhere to minimum standards.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 15 december 2011).
the next item is the report by george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the interim report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement (16384/1/2010 – c7-0097/2011 – 2010/0323(nle)) (a7-0427/2011).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i want to congratulate my colleague, mr cutaş, on a very good report and thank the commissioner for his reply. it seems that we are all on the same page on this issue. the evidence that has come from a variety of organisations suggests that as many as 200 000 children are used to harvest the cotton in uzbekistan. parents and teachers are forced to comply or risk losing their jobs. the police and the prosecution service pressurise families. families are threatened with the loss of electricity, or loss of social security. there is no question that forced child labour is taking place in uzbekistan. so, to accept this proposal would not be in line with our principle of coherence between trade policy and human rights. it would not be in line with our commitments to the international rights of the child, and it would not be in line with our strong line on tackling corruption. as others have said, we need clear, independent monitoring from the ilo and clear evidence from the uzbekistan authorities that serious efforts are being made to tackle forced child labour before there can be any question of this issue coming back on our agenda. i agree with the previous speaker as well that if nothing is done, we also have to look at the gsp+ situation for uzbekistan. as the commissioner rightly acknowledges, it is not enough simply to pass and simply to ratify two ilo conventions. they must be implemented.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the greens on the committee on international trade fully support the report’s position, which is calling for uzbekistan to take concrete and convincing measures to eradicate child labour before the parliament can give consent to textiles being covered by the partnership and cooperation agreement. i think it is perfectly right that we should be withholding european parliament consent to this protocol with uzbekistan until those breaches have been stopped. in relation to the textiles, there is clear evidence of state-sanctioned, systematic and widespread forced labour in the uzbek cotton fields. schools are being closed during the harvest period and thousands upon thousands of school children are being forced to work in the fields collecting cotton. this is not the treatment that any child should have to tolerate. we would not tolerate it for our children. those children in uzbekistan are our children; we should have a responsibility for them.
mr president, jordan, a schoolgirl from my constituency speaking about forced child labour last week, said that this needs to stop. with four other friends she left home at 5.30 in the morning to make a trip to our parliament with a petition for the president. jordan went on, ‘i am here to ask the european politicians what they are going to do to stop it’. well, what are we going to do? this is something that every mep should be asking. as the uzbek cotton harvest ends, there are again reports of children as young as eight being forced to work long hours in the cotton fields. the khorezm region mobilised 170 000 schoolchildren during the harvest. eight college directors were reportedly beaten to coerce them to pick cotton. the parliament must send a strong message to uzbekistan that this practice must cease. uzbekistan has made no credible efforts to end this practice. it does not cooperate with the ilo, despite signing relevant conventions, and it failed to invite ilo observers once again during this harvest. in the committee on international trade we bent over backwards to give the government a hearing but they failed to send anyone to speak to meps. this is not acceptable and it cannot be business as usual. we now need to send a strong message. i want to be able to go back to the children in my constituency to say that we heard their voices because they were speaking up for the thousands of silent voices of children in uzbekistan. the crimes of the cotton fields must stop now.
mr president, i think mr murphy has summed this up perfectly; he talks about words and actions and that is what lies before us here. that is the decision that we have to make, or the commission has to make. this is a question of values and puts into sharp focus baroness ashton’s assertion yesterday that human rights will be a thread in all the eu does. as has been said many times here, uzbekistan is the third-largest exporter of cotton worldwide; almost half that cotton is picked by state-sponsored forced child labour. children suffer appalling conditions during the cotton harvest. many contract hepatitis from insanitary conditions, and there have even been reports of police throwing stones at children who were not picking cotton because they were sick. so far, the european union has failed to take action on this issue, but it is clear from all parts of this chamber that this is an issue of importance that needs immediate attention. i would like to see a plan from the commission, not rhetoric. suspension of gsp would be a good start.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 15 december 2011). written statements (rule 149)
madam president, i sympathise with my romanian and bulgarian colleagues. they are right that there is no european consistency or social cohesion in this matter, but this is a flaw within the eu. yes, there is discrimination, but fairness has different sides. my constituency of the west midlands in the uk – and the uk has been mentioned, along with the netherlands, as one of the countries that wants to prolong this exclusion – has the highest youth unemployment in the uk. we need to provide jobs for those people. when the first wave of eastern bloc countries joined the european union, the uk was one of the very few countries that did not impose restrictions, and the then labour government said that 14 000 people from poland and elsewhere would come into the uk. that 14 000 turned into over 850 000. that put an extreme demand on our social services: on our social housing, on our national health service and on our social security. the british taxpayer simply could not afford it. earlier today we heard the united kingdom being called ‘26 plus one’. well, it has the right to defend its own borders and to defend its own economy. we will remain that ‘plus one’ and, hopefully, will soon not even be that ‘plus one’ and will be leaving. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i wish to thank mr vigenin for his question. yes, of course, they are taxpayers, but what we are talking about here is the fact that, while they were paying tax, there was a british person who was unemployed because that job was taken, so that was a strain on our social security system. the united kingdom is, simply, a small island. it is not about race, it is about space: we simply do not have enough jobs. i would like to see a points system in the united kingdom, whereby we have people from outside the european union and people from within the european union as well, so that we can fill the vacancies we actually have. there is no point bringing workers in from around the european union when we simply do not have the jobs. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i do not have the statistics to hand but i have read several reports since 2005 and it is there for people to see in the united kingdom. we can see this. we could see in 2006 and 2007 the demand on social housing, the demand on our health service and the demand on social security. child benefit is paid for every child in the uk, and there were examples of workers from eastern bloc countries claiming this money for children still resident in the eastern bloc. that was the demand on british taxpayers. there is obviously an economic benefit from migrant workers to the uk. the uk has benefited from migration since the second world war, from our own old empire and commonwealth countries. we need a certain level of immigration, but it needs to be controlled immigration under our terms, not your terms.
blue-card question. – ms ţicău, you mentioned that we are either in this or out of this, but the treaty of rome actually says that for any kind of changes, especially to any treaties, you need unanimity. but the european union changes the rules as it goes along do you not? the british prime minister vetoed a new treaty last week, but you are going ahead with the rest of the 26 of you. where does unanimity come in there? there are rules when they suit you and rules when they do not suit you.
madam president, i was in afghanistan less than three weeks’ ago, in helmand province, visiting the british forces that are part of the international security assistance force or isaf. it is an interesting situation there, and there are many fears for post-2014, but since the taliban was overthrown in 2001, there has been a 60% increase in healthcare provision, with infant mortality reduced by 20%. education has increased – obviously including females – with 13 000 more schools, 170 000 more teachers and 7.3 million more students. these are things that we need to build on. i am glad – amazed actually – that the european parliament is having this debate here tonight and actually showing some concern about where the money goes. this makes a welcome change from previous years. we must continue to help afghanistan build, because it was a factory of terrorism. the uk, other member states and the international community need to show faith with afghanistan to build a strong and prosperous country that rejects terrorism and all the disasters that go with it.
madam president, how many men does it take to change a light bulb? in one english council, tenants must send for council staff, who may not use ladders, only scaffolding. that is three people: one holds the rigging, one changes the bulb and one supervises. that is the crazy english, but i do have better examples. at a meeting six years ago, i was astonished to hear of the number of young people injured at work. the independent body – unconnected with the eu – which had called the meeting suggested a range of safe practices which they claimed had reduced these figures – without legislation. as i have said before, good ideas always spread, and a latvian took these documents to use locally. but the eu legislates; we do it every day. why – if good results can be achieved by unbiased advice from non-political sources? so i ask that elements of this draft report, such as simplifying existing legislation, implementing national strategies and adjusting to the context of member states, carry through to the final, advisory version. voluntary systems are always best: no infringement proceedings.
author. − madam president, the european union works best when it takes relatively small amounts of money to work with local authorities and other agencies in exchanging best practice and in part-financing policy projects in its policy priority areas. the intelligent energy europe (iee) programme and the european agency for competitiveness and innovation are outstanding examples of this in the field of combating climate change, so the commission will understand the concern of members of this house when we learn of plans to discontinue a programme which encourages citizens to use energy more wisely and to help the union to meet its kyoto commitments. the commission has talked about continuing work in this area, about mainstreaming it, about strengthening it in future funding programmes. commissioner oettinger was suggesting yesterday that intelligent energy europe might go into the horizon 2020, but we want to know whether there will be a dedicated programme still. we want to know whether this will have the visibility that the iee programme has had. we want to know whether it will activate civil society and foster commitment in the same way. as ms carvalho said, the european local energy assistance facility has leveraged huge amounts of money from a very small investment to help businesses become energy efficient, to retrofit social housing, to improve public transport, to design smart energy buildings and to connect renewable energy production into electricity grids. if that programme were to disappear it would be a real loss to a huge variety of decentralised activities to promote renewable energy and energy saving. i think at heart the question that members are asking is this: has the commission lost its way when it comes to renewable energy? why is it planning to pump money into gas distribution networks for the benefit of companies that are already making billions in profits, rather than pumping money into the vision that it still professes of a renewable energy europe, one where we can meet our commitment of cutting carbon by 80% by 2050?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, can i start by thanking andreas schwab for delivering a sound report on competition policy. competition policy within the single market is a key area in which europe can deliver for its citizens. it has brought many benefits for consumers: reducing costs, making the single market more efficient and removing unjustified obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and capital. although competition policy has made great progress in many areas, failures still remain with regard to price transparency, the food supply change and energy prices. mr almunia, i agree with you and with mr schwab’s comments about controlling state aid. i know we are living in exceptional times but we look forward to you making progress on this issue. increasing price transparency should be our key goal for 2012. it is essential for consumers so that they can assess the market and analyse pricing structures. this will help lower prices for all our constituents; something which is more necessary than ever at this difficult time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. there has been much cooperation and good work done between us, the shadows and the competition taskforce which was set up, to which we all belong. it is a new year, commissioner, for parliament and commission relations, which have been very positive and fruitful. we have made positive progress in key areas. we have looked at sector-specific issues, such as state aid, and sectors of general economic interest, for example. these are proving fruitful engagements with the commission, but much more must still be done. in this report – as the rapporteur has just indicated – we have targeted certain specific aspects of interest. i will outline two. first, fining policy, where we have called for greater transparency in the procedures in determining fines adopted for cartels. i agree with the commissioner and the rapporteur on the need to balance the protection of the consumer with a fair, clear procedure proportionate to the effects. on state aid and the financial sector – much mentioned just now – member states, either at municipal or federal level, have been forced to stabilise the financial situations in their countries. the commission is right not to pull the carpet from under the feet of this stability. however, we do need to establish the correct controls to ensure that the level playing field is not ignored. we have to determine what the real need is instead of what is just for advantage and could be proved to be advantageous. i would like to say that the s&d group supports this report and supports the rapporteur’s work. he has done much to bring together many of the aspects that we have agreed – and perhaps even disagreed – on in the past. i think these issues are right to be discussed here and i wish him the very best in success on this report.
madam president, good competition policy should ensure the right environment for an innovative business culture which, in turn, will yield sustainable economic growth. we need to ensure that the eu single market becomes a competitive and dynamic place to do business again. one area where we must move cautiously is in the development of an increasingly complex regulatory environment, especially for global financial services, where reducing risk needs to be balanced with damaging our global competitiveness. we should only regulate where there has been a proven need and with proportionate measures. an example would be the g20 agreement to better regulate the world’s derivative markets. however, when we mandate the use of post-trade activities, such as central clearing, we need to ensure that we are not now mandating a new eu monopoly of service. with increased competition comes natural fragmentation of the market, which is then often followed by a wave of consolidation. we are seeing this trend in the plethora of training venues which emerged post-mifid (markets in financial instruments directive) and are now witnessing market consolidation amongst exchanges and multilateral trading facilities. legislation needs to be able to withstand these market trends and, where it cannot adequately do so, dg competition will need to protect europe’s competitive landscape. we need to ensure effective competition policy at all times so we can encourage new entrants and innovation. this is the only way we will grow.
colleagues, we have a pleasant announcement to start with concerning one of the written declarations submitted by véronique mathieu, roberta angelilli, edite estrela, jean lambert and katarina neveďalová in support of the international day of the girl. it has been signed by more than a majority of parliament’s component members and in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure. it will therefore be forwarded to its addressees and published in the texts adopted of today’s sitting. the names of the signatories will be published in the minutes.
ms estrela, many congratulations to you and your co-authors. ***
mr bisky, from the response i think you certainly have the solidarity of the house, and my solidarity. the personal integrity and dignity of the office of each and every member of this parliament must be respected always. this has already been conveyed to the moroccan authorities, as our president has written to you already, and will be pursued.
madam president, it has come to my attention that there is an increasing trend with regard to written declarations in this parliament for children to be used. could the president investigate and inform me what the legal situation is, whether they are paid or unpaid, and, more importantly, the insurance situation as to their welfare?
ms sinclaire, we will look into the matter.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
we shall now continue with the vote.
rapporteur. − madam president, just before this vote, and whatever the outcome of the vote, i would like parliament to dedicate this report to emilio de capitani, who has served parliament brilliantly and for a long time as head of the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. (applause)
madam president, the oral amendment reads as follows: ‘stresses that where detention conditions are perceived as poor, or conditions risk falling below the standards required by the council of europe’s european prison rules, the transfer of prisoners should be specifically prohibited following the issuing of a european arrest warrant’.
that concludes the vote.
madam president, the report on the budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan makes many sound recommendations on how eu aid is managed. one of the recommendations that has been made is to offer direct budgetary support, under rigorous conditions, to tackle current challenges in management, including corruption, poorly trained staff, unreliable data and a lack of full independence of local audit bodies. i support having a fully independent audit inspection body which would assist in giving oversight to the much-needed direct budgetary support in that country and the need for an annual report on aid to afghanistan to be submitted to this parliament. in principle, this is a valuable initiative, which i can support.
madam president, we have today voted to spend another eur 500 million of taxpayers’ money by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund. i just wonder: do we get good value for that money? does anyone check to see how many jobs are created or do we in fact just vote for this expenditure to give ourselves a warm feeling that we can somehow resist the process of job losses in europe? perhaps we should take more practical steps to preventing job losses in europe by making our economy more competitive. this is at a time when the nation states’ finances are under enormous pressure. the eur 500 million that we voted to spend could have been returned to the member states. i would suggest that would have been a much better use of the money.
madam president, i voted against the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund as i do not believe that the eu funds should be used for this purpose. this is a member state responsibility. i am fundamentally opposed to the use of any of these funds in assisting as this is essentially a long-term problem being addressed by a short-term fix. it is the eu’s social fund which should be used to assist these types of requests. i believe that some of the funds in the european globalisation adjustment fund should therefore be returned at this time to national governments who could better utilise them in terms of supporting innovation in particular, as well as research programmes, in order to help create jobs and stimulate the economy locally across each and every member state.
madam president, we have just voted through gbp 500 million to support a car firm in france. one might say that is a little glitch, a little twitch or knob in the single market – though at gbp 500 million it seems quite a big one – but the single market has always had these imbalances, these national peculiarities. it has always operated on the basis that some states have essential national interests. you cannot easily reform the common fisheries policy without this receiving a spanish veto, or the common agricultural policy without a french veto. germany has particular interests in its heavy industries and, of course, my own country has an interest in the financial services sector. the difference is, however, that our interest is in preserving the single market, and not in having some protectionist exemption. it was extraordinary to hear in the debate yesterday that the uk was somehow turning its back on the single market when all it was asking for was a guarantee that the single market would apply evenly to financial services and would not be applied asymmetrically, to the detriment of the main financial services sector in europe. it is not the uk that has abandoned the free market principles which the treaty of rome enshrined, but rather the member states which are pursuing this new union. this makes the uk’s departure, i am afraid, more or less inevitable.
madam president, i have grave concerns about the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and i voted against this report. i have looked at the history of this report and noticed that the french car firms in particular, both renault and peugeot, as well as dutch companies and german companies are great recipients of this for people they have made redundant. i am minded of my own constituents in coventry, the peugeot ryton plant, where over 2 000 people were made redundant in 2007 without receiving any assistance or training whatsover. indeed the labour government or the current conservative-led government in the uk has made no claims or put anything into retraining these people or other people whatsoever. there was also this week an egf in favour of the südtirol region of italy, where the member here, mr dorfmann, says that unemployment is just 3%. yet we gave eur 3.9 million to that project. why? why are we not training people where we do have serious unemployment but just throwing money away to a region where unemployment is only 3%?
madam president, it is wonderful to see you in the chair. hopefully we will see much more of you in the next term. can i just say at this stage that that there are many opportunities afforded by globalisation. it allows companies to take advantage of global supply chains, many of which are in poorer and developing countries, and it allows us, using market conditions, to take many millions of people out of poverty. unfortunately, the downside of globalisation is that there are companies which refuse or fail to take advantage of these opportunities. what they do is seek to protect their positions even though market conditions have changed. unfortunately, all that the european globalisation adjustment fund does is to encourage this inertia – not adapting to market conditions, not taking advantage of global supply chains and asking for more taxpayers’ money when that money would be better returned to member states to be invested in sustainable jobs. it is time we ended the european globalisation adjustment fund and returned the money to member states.
madam president, the report on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents fully appreciates the need for greater transparency and access to institutional documents. i have therefore supported this report as it extends the definition of what a document is to cover written and electronic material, and to include all sound, visual and audiovisual recordings. it also acknowledges the necessity of having the appropriate safeguards to exempt documents such as those relating to public security and intellectual property rights, which gives the option for refusal in exceptional circumstances as long as this is justified. i welcome a transparent eu and i hope that all eu institutions, including the european central bank, will now publish their minutes in a full and timely way.
madam president, most politicians across the political spectrum on the whole understand that it is important that the citizens who vote for us have access to documents from the european parliament, the council and the commission. i would hope that we could extend that transparency, at times, to other elements of our decision-making process. while i understand there are times when we might be involved in delicate negotiations at which we might not want to reveal our negotiating positions, surely we should also be pushing for transparency at some of our meetings. can you imagine if the council deliberations on the eu budget were in public? then politicians could answer their electors as to why, at a time of austerity, when governments and councils are seeking to tighten their belts and control spending, they have asked for more taxpayers’ money to be spent at eu level. let them justify their decisions to the public.
madam president, the european maritime safety agency was set up in the wake of the spillage from the oil tanker erika, and its primary role should be to focus on maintaining maritime safety. an additional role which i support is supporting member state action to combat piracy. a system for reducing administrative barriers is also an acceptable use of that agency. however, i cannot support the widening focus of its role to inland navigation and recruitment of seafarers. moreover, i believe the suggestion of it having an anti-pollution role is too controversial and thus cannot be supported. in particular, in my member state, the uk, we have reservations regarding the extension of the agency’s role in the analysis of the safety of mobile offshore oil and gas installations. i firmly believe that the maritime safety agency should not have competence in this area and that this is completely unnecessary, given that the uk’s north sea oil field already has high offshore exploration safety standards in place.
madam president, this draft scoreboard for surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances is unnecessary and a waste of this parliament’s time. we spent over a year in this parliament working with the council of ministers to get an economic governance ‘six-pack’ of legislation through earlier this year and that ‘six-pack’ of legislation gave the commission responsibility for devising a scoreboard to detail what were macroeconomic imbalances and what needed to be monitored. that was one year in the making. therefore we do not need any more layers of complexity in this system. last friday’s summit, if it taught us anything, taught us that we need solid measures to combat the eurozone debt crisis. we need to implement what we have already decided and not devise new procedures at this time of crisis. i cannot support any more interference by parliament. let us allow the commission to get on with their job of devising that scoreboard.
madam president, just before the vote, a ppe friend of mine said there was nothing so annoying as people being wise after the event. i responded that we were in fact being wise during the event and had been wise before the event. what is happening now in the eurozone was not just predictable, it was widely predicted. it had all the inevitability (to choose an apposite parallel) of a greek tragedy. we had the hubris of the early days when everybody pretended that greek and german debt were interchangeable, when a productivity gap of 30% opened up and when the markets did not intervene to impose a correction of their own. now we are having the nemesis, but we will not have the catharsis until greece and the other stricken countries are able to print their own currencies, price their way back into the market and start exporting their way to growth again. one is never popular saying, ‘i told you so’. nonetheless it does seem a bit unreasonable, if the other member states are prepared to pay all these extraordinary prices or at least inflict these prices on their peoples, to send us the bill. it is not our problem. we kept the pound.
madam president, as a resolution on a single european transport area, this report calls for the commission to put forward proposals on social and working conditions to facilitate the creation of a fully-integrated european transport market for workers. this is something that i cannot support. the report is far too ambitious, and unrealistic targets have been set for reducing the number of road deaths and reducing co2 emissions from road transport and shipping. it suggests that the commission should also develop safe infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists in towns and work towards doubling the number of users of public transport. the resolution clearly does not respect the principle of subsidiarity, and i feel it would generate more unnecessary bureaucratic legislation for member states. even wales has devolved transport systems. i cannot see how this could work in the uk, let alone across europe.
madam president, given that uzbekistan is the fifth largest producer of cotton and the third biggest exporter of cotton worldwide, i welcome the report on establishing an ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement taking in bilateral trade in textiles. crucially the report takes into account the concerns of the eu presidency, unicef and the international labour organisation (ilo) with respect to the alleged use of forced child labour in the uzbek textile industry. it also quite appropriately requests the commission to conduct a feasibility study on an effective traceability mechanism for goods produced, which would go some way to address the issue of forced child labour. the proposed agreement would also give uzbek cotton the most-favoured-nation status thus allowing trade with the eu which is free from quantitative restrictions, which can only be good for the long-term development of uzbekistan. finally the report quite rightly calls for an ilo investigation into the alleged forced child labour breaches. such an investigation should happen without delay. if we take action here and organise this, we should be able to make this trade much better and safer for all involved.
madam president, it is nice to see you in the chair and i hope, like other colleagues, to see a bit more of you. it is difficult to think of a more textbook case of a repressive regime than that in uzbekistan. that beautiful country with the ancient cities of the silk road is being treated more or less as the personal property of the president’s family and of some of their cronies. there is an almost caligulan tyranny there, and a regime which is involved in drug running and repression – two opponents of the regime were boiled to death while in prison. and yet the west has tended to hold back from criticism because in the uncertain days immediately after 9/11 the karimov dictatorship had the wit to declare itself an ally in the war on terror and to make its bases available for use in the afghan campaign. this is the error we make again and again in muslim countries. we made it with the shah in iran, we made it in egypt and we are making it in saudi arabia. there is no, or very little, fundamentalism in uzbekistan. a traveller there does not see beards, does not perceive headscarves and does not hear the call to prayer. however, if we define every opponent of the karimov tyranny as a fundamentalist, we will eventually make that prediction come true and we will create the very thing we purport to fear.
madam president, central asia is strategically important to europe, and the development of an eu strategy for central asia back in 2007 cemented the eu’s acknowledgement of this. a lot of progress has been made since its implementation, with initiatives and programmes aimed at supporting good governance, the rule of law, economic development, trade and investment to name but a few. however, we are currently operating in a starkly different economic climate compared to that of 2007 and so it is only appropriate that the eu strategy for central asia be reviewed and updated accordingly. the main focus of this report is for the eu to strengthen its engagement with central asia, particularly with respect to human security and better regional cooperation. it is for these reasons that i have voted for this report.
madam president, i have major reservations about this report on health and safety at work, which calls for a european strategy to be developed which will allow for new risks, such as psycho-social risks, and also to include all workers, no matter what their function, in prevention policies. it calls for more legislation in the area of health and safety and for something which is perfectly acceptable – more corporate social responsibility. all member states should have appropriate health and safety regimes but, just as in my own country, the uk, we are already buried under the often unnecessary red tape this involves. common sense, not legislation, now needs to be applied. the proposals made in this report would inevitably increase the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, which is something that i cannot support. many smes are fighting for survival in the current economically turbulent times. we should be proposing measures that would assist their businesses rather than hinder and bury them in red tape.
in writing. − i voted for this report in which the rapporteur examined the audit reports both of the european court of auditors (eca) and of us audit entities. these revealed significant shortcomings in the management of funds for afghanistan. it is evident that project management in conflict-affected areas such as the one in afghanistan cannot be directly compared with project management in developed countries or even developing countries not affected by conflicts. there is no doubt that oversight efforts are also hampered by the unstable security situation. at the same time, reliable information on weaknesses in project management and relevant risk factors need to be identified, in order to make improvements as far as possible.
in writing. − i voted for the geier report on the budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan. with a plethora of international originations operating in theatre complementing the nato isaf mission, it is essential that partners coordinate their efforts to avoid duplication and therefore the needless squandering of resources. of particular relevance here is the relationship between the eu and un agencies and the direct eu budgetary support for afghanistan, where there is a serious risk of duplication. the seemingly ubiquitous problems of government corruption, tribal nepotism, the hazardous security situation for eu officials as targets of the taliban and poorly trained afghan officials must be addressed with renewed vigour, and monitored closely. audit bodies administering financial aid must be transparent and accountable. my hope is that eu financial assistance will assist in the creation of robust institutions and democratic mechanisms within afghanistan in order that, following the 2014 withdrawal of foreign troops, kabul can maintain internal security and adequate counter-insurgency capabilities.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament urges the commission to link the extension of the temporary state aid to the banking sector beyond 2011 with enhanced and more stringent conditions related to the reduction of the balance sheet composition and size, including a proper focus on retail lending as well as stronger restrictions on bonuses, distribution of dividends and other crucial factors; it deems that these conditions should be explicit and should be assessed and summarised on an ex post basis by the commission.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal from my colleague michael cashman on public access to documents. it is a measured response to increasing demands from the european citizens but also from national institutions and regional authorities, primarily the national parliaments, for improved access to the documents held by the eu institutions.
in writing. − it is vitally important that eu institutions are made more transparent in order to encourage greater citizen participation. i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes a positive step towards a fully transparent and accountable eu. in addition to allowing citizens access to important information upon request this resolution also places importance on encouraging institutions to actively disseminate documents. this progressive resolution has my full support because it will bring the eu closer to its citizens and strengthen the democratic process.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which points out that an eu oil spill detection and monitoring system reduces costs by around 20% compared to national systems.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the syrian regime to lift the siege of homs and allow in international aid and relief efforts and to withdraw all syrian forces from the towns and cities of syria
in writing. − i voted, along with my group, the ecr, in favour of the joint text on syria. in recent weeks and months, the situation in syria has been extremely unsettled, with widespread protest against the al-assad regime since march of this year. the method used by the government to control the situation has been violent repression, and many protesters have lost their lives exercising their fundamental human right to freedom of expression, with the un estimating that 4 000 people, mostly civilians, have lost their lives so far. we voted in favour of the proposed text as we feel that it highlights well both the plight of the syrian people and the crimes committed by its government. it takes a strong line, as required, that urges the government not only to put a stop to the violent repression of its population and to launch independent investigations into the actions of its security forces, but also to instigate a system of democratic reform in order to widen political participation and to lift its censorship of newspapers and the internet.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which takes note of the commission’s intention to provide, by the end of 2012 and in time for the subsequent european semester, a new set of indicators and related thresholds for the financial sector, and asks the commission to make explicit the relationship between such financial sector indicators and the dashboard envisaged in the european systemic risk board (esrb) regulation.
in writing. − i voted for this report which points out that there is an acute need to take action in towns, as the population in conurbations is increasing, which will lead to increasing traffic, noise and air pollution. in order to address these problems, towns should establish sustainable mobility plans, and financial support for projects should be made dependent upon the submission of such plans. under the principle of subsidiarity, towns will, of course, decide themselves what urban projects to plan, but these projects will have to comply with the standards of european transport policy, meaning that they will have to provide for efficient multi-modal passenger and goods logistics chains which reduce not only traffic in towns but also environmental impact. for this reason, mobility plans will also have to provide for increased infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists and lead to the doubling of the number of public transport users. bus and tram transport in particular can significantly contribute to efficient co-modality in urban, suburban and regional transport, provided that the requisite infrastructure is adapted or made available
in writing. − i voted against this report, not because of the proposals it makes to keep pedestrians and cyclists safe nor because of the targets it recommends to reduce road deaths, but because of proposals to ‘enhance the attractiveness of the transport sector for workers’. in my home constituency of london, the sector is so attractive that bob crow, the leader of the rail maritime and transport union, earns nearly gbp 150 000 in pay and perks. as millions of londoners face pay freezes, unions regularly hold my constituents hostage over salaries and conditions, although train drivers already earn more than nurses, teachers, policemen and soldiers. one union has just voted to hold a series of strikes because transport for london refused to offer their drivers triple pay on a public holiday. boris johnson, the mayor of london, sees no alternative other than to introduce driverless trains to the london underground, something which may have been put in jeopardy had this report been legislative. i’m sure mr crow will be over to brussels soon to lobby the eu for such legislation. why? because his union recently won the right to travel free on eurostar in the last round of negotiations!
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the member states and the accession countries to sign and ratify the optional protocol to the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment punishment, which establishes a system of regular visits by international and national bodies to places of detention and confers on those bodies the task of visiting and inspecting prisons and hearing appeals by prisoners, as well as drawing up a public annual report for the relevant parliaments. the resolution encourages the european union to make a call to sign and ratify the optional protocol part of its policy vis-à-vis third countries and calls on the eu and its member states to fully collaborate with and support these bodies, including with appropriate resources and funds
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on uzbekistan and believe that, as long as the uzbek government continues to refuse ilo full access, the eu should initiate an investigation into the temporary withdrawal of the gsp rights for uzbek cotton.
in writing. − i voted with the ecr in favour of the cutaş report concerning the draft council decision to extend the partnership with the republic of uzbekistan to cover trade in textiles. if the new protocol came into force, uzbek cotton would receive mfn status, and there would be no quantitative restrictions on trade with the eu. the allegations against uzbekistan that it uses forced child labour are serious, and an investigation into the situation by the international labour organisation would be beneficial, but long standing traditions that see a school-aged voluntary work-force put to work each year to collect cotton during the harvest, must also be taken into account. following this we could then consider the potential advantages and disadvantages that could be brought to the situation by the temporary withdrawal of gsp status for uzbek cotton imported to the eu.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution which calls for the abolition of transnational measures for the free movement of workers.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which underlines the strong political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bi- and multilateral relations with central asian countries in all areas of cooperation, such as stability, security and sustainable development of the region, trade and economic relations, energy and transport links, reinforcement of dialogue on universal values such as democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and common challenges and threats, including border management and combating drug and human trafficking.
in writing. − the strategic importance of central asia cannot be underestimated. these vast but comparatively underdeveloped moderate muslim countries have crucial energy and mineral (including uranium) reserves that remain central to the eu’s energy security: turkmenistan provides an outlet for gas flow across the caspian sea and into the european continent. geopolitically, uzbekistan and tajikistan provide land transport corridors for troop transit to support the isaf mission in afghanistan. i strongly agree with the kiil-nielsen focus on environmental policy – in uzbekistan, for example, decades of soviet environmental mismanagement for purposes of cotton growing have damaged the aral sea, and in mountainous tajikistan, soil erosion through deforestation for agricultural development has led to desertification. a good and sustainable water management policy is indispensible for development in the region. the report also suggests measures to strengthen civil society and the rule of law and human rights, which acts as complementary to the socio-economic development strategy advocated by the report. i was pleased to vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report which calls on the commission to submit a proposal to parliament and the council in 2012 seeking to ban smoking everywhere at the workplace, including indoor catering establishments, on all public transport and in all enclosed public buildings within the eu.
in writing. − i support calls to reinforce legislation on health and safety for people in the workplace. as many as 168 000 workers across europe die each year as a result of work-related accidents or diseases – we need to look specifically at the risks associated with new technologies and harmful substances to make sure that appropriate legislation is put in place. i also welcome calls to ensure the protection of whistleblowers in the workplace – people should be able to warn of risks at work without fear of reprisal and the practice of ‘blacklisting’ those who speak out must be brought to an end. i am however disappointed that uk conservatives refused to support an end to this unfair behaviour. the report also deals with work-related stress, which is a major problem for many people, especially with the increasing number of people being made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. awareness of this issue needs to be raised with employees, employers and trade unions in order to help increase productivity in the workplace and ensure the wellbeing of workers.
author. − mr president, the tragic case of rafiq taqi is, regrettably, symptomatic of the culture of poor human rights in azerbaijan, which is a member of the council of europe and the osce. taqi, who was a prominent journalist, allegedly published a newspaper piece arguing that the strict adherence of president aliyev’s regime to islamic values was damaging any democratic credentials to which it may lay claim. allegedly as a result of a fatwa issued by a radical islamist cleric in iran, taqi was stabbed to death, most probably by a fanatic, and died four days later. until significant international pressure was exerted, the azeri authorities appeared to be at best ambivalent and at worst unconcerned at taqi’s murder, with still no clear condemnation and only limited coverage of the investigation of the circumstances surrounding his murder. up to this point, the iranian authorities, for their part, have neither condemned the fatwa – which appears to have been an incitement to murder – nor have they shown any sign that anyone suspected of inciting, planning or carrying out the crime on taqi would be brought to justice. we welcome the decision, even if it is somewhat belated, to open a criminal inquiry now into the circumstances of taqi’s death, and we call upon the azeri authorities to do all within their power to bring to justice the perpetrator, if he or she is apprehended, following a fair trial to international standards. we call upon the iranian authorities, too, to cooperate fully with the investigation and to provide all the necessary evidence possible to aid it in its course, although i suspect that tehran will, sadly, not listen to what we have to say in this house. we are concerned at reports that azerbaijani authorities have recently used the criminal law to stifle free debate on the issues regarding religion. we feel strongly that azerbaijan must step up to its legal obligations, as a member of the council of europe, to protect human rights and freedom of speech and all the other freedoms that go with it.
author. − mr president, the situation of women in pakistan and afghanistan remains serious. human rights abuses perpetrated against women remain commonplace, sadly, and more worryingly are frequently tolerated by the authorities. pakistan’s tradition of honour killings must be addressed in particular, and the government there must take much stronger action to ensure that this crime in particular does not go unpunished. genital mutilation is still reported in some rural parts of pakistan, and therefore we urge the authorities to investigate these alleged crimes fully as well. afghanistan, for its part, has the second-highest rate of maternal mortality in the world, and we call upon the afghan government to do more in the area of maternal health. sharia law enacted in some areas of pakistan and afghanistan permits the execution of pregnant women, and this must, of course, be condemned in the strongest possible terms and is indeed against un international human rights declarations. despite the significant financial and technical eu aid in afghanistan, girls and women are still experiencing major difficulties in accessing primary education due to deeply-rooted cultural discrimination against the female sex. safeguards aiming to ensure gender equality are not acted upon, especially in the recruitment of women to positions of influence, such as the national legislature or the judiciary. it is imperative that this situation is addressed and a concrete, lasting and enforceable solution found before nato isaf forces finally withdraw from afghanistan in 2014. the recent talks at the bonn conference were indeed encouraging. we believe that, as well as the measures taken by the governments of the countries themselves, the commission should give even more assistance to those projects that promote and protect the rights of women in these two countries.
author. − mr president, my group, the ecr, welcomes the commitments that have been made by the new tunisian government following the end of the ben ali dictatorship – a deeply corrupt regime – and particularly its cooperation with the un in putting procedures in place to respect tunisia’s international legal obligations and to prevent torture and in particular inhumane and degrading treatment of prisoners. in the light of this recent commitment we must urge the tunisian government to do all it can to make sure that the authorities deal properly with the case brought forward by zakaria bouguira in a transparent manner and in line with the law. the same manner must also be used when it investigates the alleged use of torture against the moroccan nationals implicated in the case, and we must push in this house for there to be an independent criminal inquiry into the matter. we are aware of the challenges that tunisia faces after holding its first free and democratic elections in this period of transition, and for this reason we believe that a reform process must be fully implemented in order to establish a stronger and lasting multi-party pluralist democracy in the long term in tunisia, and one that is based on human rights and the rule of law, with an independent judiciary and an accountable police force and, most importantly, a free media. we again congratulate the tunisian people on holding the first democratic election to come forth from the arab spring, on 23 october. there was an ep mission observing that election, and the european union must continue to support the tunisian people in their clear democratic aspirations. as such, we call on the tunisian authorities to carry on reforming the security forces and ending any climate of impunity. tunisia has traditionally prided itself on sharing eu common values in building a modern secular society. we hope that this process will continue into the future.
