i would like to point out, mr president, that rule 173 of the rules of procedure is being breached because this is the third consecutive sitting of the european parliament in which the item 'questions to the council' is not on the agenda, as provided for in rule 116. i would ask you to explain why this is so, where it is due and, in any case, to defend the right of the european parliament and its members to exercise parliamentary scrutiny in the council as well.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs stihler very much for the excellent work she has done. we all talked about a technical issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that construction is a key pillar of the economy. we all know that small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of our economy, an economy in the european union which is in a very difficult situation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. and he did it brilliantly! we have succeeded and we have reached a compromise, a good compromise for all. we have managed to strike the balance between simple procedures which can be applied by small and mediumsized enterprises without compromising quality and, at the same time, the greatest possible good result. we've managed to crack the hazardous materials case. we all remember - and the older of us here remember very well - the asbestos contamination case of the berlaymont building, which had been closed for five or six years. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think mrs stihler has done a very good job here in her report and in the compromise that has been reached. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the view of mr harbour when he stresses the importance of the text we are discussing, which will be adopted by this house thanks to this agreement, because it is a new piece of legislation which will give important signals to the market but, at the same time, will set good rules, allowing small and mediumsized enterprises to develop, especially in this final phase of the crisis, when we must do everything possible to ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises can create new jobs and develop. this is the aim of the european commission, which shares the strong commitment of the european parliament, thanks in part to the implementation and development of the small business act. simplification for small and mediumsized enterprises, and therefore a reduction in bureaucratic burdens, but in drawing up these rules for the liberalisation of the market and for the development of the market - as mr gebhardt also said in his speech - there is a strong signal that safety is also concerned, and safety is of great importance for workers in the construction sector, but also for consumers. i think this text is going in the right direction, but the commission does not intend to end up approving the regulation as a result of the agreement and compromise between the council and parliament. we want to continue working in the coming years and i confirm this commitment to president harbour who has stressed the need to move forward to put in place a road map on implementation which i will send to you as soon as possible. many members spoke during this debate on the subject of harmonization in the construction sector, particularly with regard to safety. i am fully aware of the problem and i am glad that we have developed the eurocodes with cen, which are harmonized standards that are specifically concerned with the safety of construction. the commission, as you know, is preparing a communication on standardization which will be presented to parliament and the council in a few weeks' time, so mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today and tomorrow we are making a major step forward. i repeat, it is not just - and i thank the rapporteur for her patience in working on technical standards, which are the result of a strong political commitment - of technical standards, but behind the technicalities there is an important economic choice in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the ones that will be able to create new jobs in the coming years, and in favour of half a billion european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 january 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the commission statement on the consequences in the european union of the detection of dioxin in animal feed.
commissioner, twelve years after the dioxin scandal in belgian animal feed, dioxins have now been detected in animal feed in germany, a country with a tradition of discipline and reliable institutions. this means that the control system is not sufficiently rigorous, targeted, transparent and objective and is not accompanied by sufficient counter-incentives and sanctions. these shortcomings must be addressed with seriousness and responsibility towards the consumer, especially at a time when the economic crisis is encouraging the search for unfair solutions to reduce production costs. it is not possible to expect that, especially in adverse economic conditions, problems will self-regulate on the basis of a system of moral values. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the consumer is not compromised. the european union is proud to have set strict conditions to ensure public health, environmental protection, animal welfare. but it must also ensure that they are strictly applied if it does not want its policy to be limited to simply ... )
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to express my concern that the flegt negotiations with indonesia and malaysia have been frozen. the commission has an important instrument in its hands: the regulation on wood. this regulation excludes countries with which a flegt agreement has been concluded from the procedures provided for in the regulation. it is an important tool for giving new impetus to the negotiations. we really need to conclude flegt agreements with all the countries with significant tropical forests, whether in asia or latin america, but also with the major timber traders, such as vietnam, cambodia, laos, china and so many other countries. these countries are following their own path; establish their own procedures to modernise and monitor legal logging. the question is, are we doing what's necessary? do the 27 member states make the regulatory decisions on the import of timber from flegt countries? finally, the timber regulation requires a number of delegated acts. we have two years until the regulation is fully implemented. the commission must speed up the procedures, proceed with the delegated acts so that the countries know the details to which they must adapt.
mr president, the continuing crisis in the eurozone places all of us - the european institutions, the member states, the political leaders - under a great deal of responsibility. we must take the initiative of the market movements, give a comprehensive and convincing response to the crisis by supplementing - not replacing or neglecting - the responsibilities that the member states have assumed to fulfil their obligations. in this context, european personalities, political parties, citizens' movements and european trade unions argue that eurobonds can play a key role in overcoming the debt crisis and ensuring the stability of the euro. i would therefore like to stress that the council must respond immediately to the request made by the european parliament in its resolution of 16 december 2010 and give a clear signal to the european commission to study the matter in depth and to submit concrete proposals.
ladies and gentlemen, greece is the main gateway for illegal immigrants to the whole of europe. according to frontex, 90% of illegal migrants seeking refuge in europe enter via greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek government has recently announced its intention to build a fence on our land border with turkey. the question is whether such a solution can help strategically to solve the problem, whether that is enough. of course you didn't. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. and to get started properly, the first thing we have to do is to establish a good cooperation on these issues with the main country of origin, turkey. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy. we know very well that it takes one and a half to two years to reach an agreement and to implement it. in the meantime, let us implement the bilateral agreement with greece that has existed since 2002, as other countries in the south have done and have settled the problem.
mr president, i would like to refer to the worrying situation in the mediterranean partner countries and the impact this situation may have on our relations, on security, on prosperity in the region. we have spoken this afternoon about the rapid changes in tunisia; social unrest exists in the maghreb and mashreq countries; the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the mediterranean countries are partners, not just neighbours. i would remind you that since 1995 tunisia has received more than eur 1 billion in direct aid, in addition to the low-interest loans from the european investment bank, and we have planned significant amounts of direct aid until 2013. i would therefore like to make a request, mr president. we should have a serious multilateral discussion, taking stock of our relations, looking at the prospects and the procedures to be followed, and the high representative should present us with an integrated neighbourhood plan within the framework of the union for the mediterranean to deal with these crises together with the partner countries.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, it is a great privilege and honour for me to return to the european parliament in my new capacity as the representative of the hungarian rotating presidency of the council of the european union. i hope, honourable members, that you will consider me a former member of this house, and as a guarantee that the hungarian presidency will be a parliament-friendly presidency. i look forward to working with you all during the forthcoming five-and-a-half months of this presidency, with great expectations. i shall now use my mother tongue. a tanács soros elnöke. − elnök asszony! képviselő hölgyek és urak! nagy öröm és megtiszteltetés számomra, hogy részt vehetek ezen a vitán, amelyet követően a parlament szavazni fog a szerb köztársasággal kötött stabilizációs és társulási megállapodás jóváhagyásáról. egyúttal szeretném megragadni az alkalmat, hogy köszönetem fejezzem ki az európai parlament raportőrének, jelko kacin úrnak, aki egy kiváló jelentést készített a témában, és hogy melegen üdvözöljem a szerbia európai integrációs folyamatáról szóló állásfoglalást. a régió többi országához hasonlóan szerbiának is javára szolgált az európai tagságnak a perspektívája, és az elmúlt években jelentős haladást ért el a cél irányában. ebben az összefüggésben a stabilizációs és társulási megállapodás fontos előrelépést jelent szerbia számára az unióba vezető úton. a megállapodás megerősíti az eu és szerbia között már fennálló szoros köteléket és szerződéses kapcsolatot teremt a két fél között. a megállapodás új keretbe helyezi a politikai párbeszédet. szabadkereskedelmi övezetet hoz létre és megerősíti a kétoldalú gazdasági kapcsolatokat és ezáltal arra hivatott, hogy komoly gazdasági előnyöket hozzon szerbia számára. a megállapodás ösztönzi azokat a reformfolyamatokat, amelyek hozzájárulnak majd a szerb gazdaság növekedéséhez és elősegítik, hogy szerbia teljes körűen működő piacgazdaságot alakítson ki. a megállapodás lefekteti továbbá az alapokat ahhoz, hogy az unió és szerbia a jövőben számos területen fokozott együttműködést alakítson ki. nem utolsó sorban a szervezett bűnözés és a határokon átívelő tiltott kereskedelem leküzdése terén, valamint a meglévő környezetvédelmi előírások javítása tekintetében. a tanács 2010. június 14-én elindította a megállapodás ratifikálási folyamatát. eddig tizenegy tagállam, köztük természetesen magyarország erősítette meg a megállapodást parlamentje által. nagyon bízunk benne, hogy rövid időn belül az összes tagállam ratifikálni fogja. a tanács üdvözölné, ha a stabilizációs és társulási megállapodás 2011 végéig, de legkésőbb 2012 elejéig hatályba lépne. ez azt jelentené, hogy szerbia éppen akkor lépne ambiciózus szerződéses kapcsolatba az unióval, amikor intenzívebbé kezdi tenni a csatlakozási előkészületeket. az önök szavazata még inkább előtérbe helyezi és előmozdítja majd ezt a folyamatot, köszönhetően annak az egyhangú támogatásnak, amelyet a külügyi bizottság december 1-jei ülésén valamennyi politika erő kifejezésre juttatott. szerbia a 2009 decemberében benyújtott csatlakozási kérelmével kinyilvánította az európai unió iránti elkötelezettségét. a tanács tavaly októberben felkérte a bizottságot, hogy nyújtsa be a véleményét. erre várhatóan 2011 második felében kerül sor. mindannyian tudjuk, szerbia számára az európai integrációs folyamat számos előnnyel jár. az országnak ugyanakkor még fontos reformokat kell végrehajtania. ide tartoznak a közigazgatás és a jogállamiság terén tett további erőfeszítések, beleértve az igazságügyi reformot is, a korrupció és a szervezett bűnözés elleni küzdelem, valamint a volt jugoszláviával foglakozó nemzetközi törvényszékkel való együttműködés. ahogy az a jelko kacin úr által benyújtott jelentésben is szerepel, az integrációs folyamat az e téren elért előrehaladás függvényében zajlik. üdvözlöm azt a tényt, hogy már számos eredmény született. szeretném egyben megragadni az alkalmat, hogy felhívjam a figyelmet, az elmúlt évben szerbia történelmi lépéseket tett a régióbeli szomszédaival való megbékélés felé. üdvözlöm továbbá azt a szoros együttműködést, amelyet szerbia 2010 nyarán az unióval folytatott, és amelynek eredményeképpen megszületett az az ensz határozat, amely megnyitotta a belgrád és pristina közötti párbeszéd útját. a tanács teljes mértékben támogatja catherin ashton főképviselő asszony e téren végzett munkáját. komoly kihívásról van szó, de a párbeszéd kialakítása lehetőséget kínál mind koszovó, mind szerbia számára ahhoz, hogy közelebb kerüljenek az európai unióhoz. és még egy zárógondolatot engedjenek meg nekem. meggyőződésem, hogy az európai uniónak fenn kell tartani a bővítési folyamat hitelességét. ehhez az eszközök a kezünkben vannak. azt gondolom, hogy amennyiben a magyar elnökség alatt sikerül lezárni a csatlakozási tárgyalásokat horvátországgal, az szerbia felé is egy nagyon komoly jel, hogy a folyamat él, és a balkán országainak az uniós népek közös családjában van a helyük. elnök asszony! képviselő urak! 2011 jelentős év lesz szerbia számára, amely egyaránt hoz kihívásokat és lehetőségeket. üdvözlöm azt a lehetőséget, amelyet ez az új megállapodás hoz szerbia számára ahhoz, hogy egy békés európában közösen építsünk vele közös jövőt.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to address the european parliament today for the vote of consent to the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of serbia. i would also like to express my warm gratitude to the rapporteur for serbia, jelko kacin, for his report on the european integration process of serbia. the stabilisation and association agreement is a major step forward for serbia on its path towards the european union. the fundamental objective of this agreement is to pave the way for further european integration and reforms and to prepare serbia for european union membership. this important milestone will serve as an encouragement for serbia, as it has renewed its efforts to promote reconciliation in the region. the stabilisation and association agreement sets up a comprehensive institutional framework through the saa council and saa committee, a renewed framework for political dialogue and a network of subcommittees extensively covering most european union policy areas. naturally, it also establishes a specific body between this house and the serbian parliament, the joint parliamentary committee. from an economic standpoint, the saa foresees the gradual establishment of a free trade zone and the gradual integration of serbia into the european union’s internal market, thus bringing economic benefits for both the european union and serbia. as was the case in central europe in the 1990s, the agreement will boost investment, in particular for indirect investments. it will make a key contribution to the growth of the serbian economy and help serbia move towards a functioning market economy. the benefits of this agreement for the european union are equally significant. serbia’s market has now been opened up to european union exporters. previously relatively high tariffs will be totally dismantled within a couple of years, with the exception of a few very sensitive agricultural products. furthermore, by gradually integrating serbia into the internal market, conditions for investors will become more stable and predictable. rules on competition and state aid are aligned to those of the european union. protection of intellectual property rights is also gradually being brought up to european union standards. the sizeable serbian public procurement market is also being progressively opened up to european bidders. forging closer ties with serbia entails a number of other advantages for the european union in particular, as it will facilitate cooperation in the areas of justice, freedom and security, the environment, transport and customs, to mention just a few. it therefore helps make the european union’s policy in south-east europe more credible and effective. finally, it is particularly noteworthy that serbia brought forward the implementation of the interim agreement. it officially entered into force in february 2010, but serbia decided to apply it shortly after it was signed in april 2008. serbia has thereby demonstrated a commitment to its economic integration with the european union and has so far established a positive track record. since 14 june 2010, when the council decided to launch the ratification process for the agreement, nine member states have notified ratification and two more have secured the approval of their parliaments. today’s vote by the european parliament should therefore provide additional impetus for this process thanks to the unanimous support from across the political groups. i hope that ratification by the other member states will follow soon. let me conclude by focusing on the motion for a resolution on the european integration process of serbia as a well-prepared contribution to today’s political debate. i am therefore grateful to the rapporteur, jelko kacin. the resolution sends serbia both a message of support for enhancing eu-serbia relations, and a message of expectation in relation to the key challenges on serbia’s path to european union membership. this is particularly timely in the context of the preparations of the opinion on serbia’s membership application. i was in belgrade last november to hand over a detailed questionnaire to the prime minister and the deputy prime minister for european integration. the serbian authorities are currently working hard on their replies, which we expect by the end of the month. i am encouraged by the serbian government’s adoption on 30 december of an action plan as a follow-up to the commission’s progress report. the commission will thoroughly analyse the replies to the questionnaires and the steps taken by the serbian authorities in the coming months to complete its assessment with a view to issuing the opinion in the second half of 2011. as my hungarian colleague said, 2011 is an important year for serbia: a year of demanding challenges as well as a year of opportunities. the path has been set and the objectives are well known, yet it is up to serbia to walk down that path, fulfil the required criteria, and, once ready, engage in the negotiation process with the european union. i am convinced that, with our joint support, serbia will continue to make the right european choices and move ahead in its integration efforts. this will deliver a positive message for the whole region at a time when we need to reaffirm its european perspective in order to consolidate peace and foster economic prosperity in the western balkans.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, i too would like to congratulate mr kacin on his balanced and thorough text. the socialist and democratic group strongly supports the accession prospect of serbia, a country which has made enormous strides in recent years and which is a cornerstone for peace and stability in the western balkans. the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement by parliament today is therefore a historic moment and we welcome it. the european parliament resolution also welcomes the application for membership submitted by the country, stressing that there are still steps to be taken. it should be clear that the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the union in the western balkans. in this context, the country's cooperation with the international criminal court is an absolute international obligation and must proceed swiftly, not because europe wants it, but because the administration of justice contributes to reconciliation with the past and allows the improvement of relations between all the peoples of the former yugoslavia. the serbian people have been victims of this war. serbia is now the country with the highest number of refugees and internally displaced persons in europe. people who need care, shelter and integration into the labour market. the union must give practical support to all efforts in this direction, particularly in the context of the financial crisis. we therefore welcome the recent commitment of the serbian and croatian presidents to seek joint solutions to the refugee problem. the decision to open a dialogue with the kosovo authorities is of particular importance for stability in the region. we support the dialogue which must be launched as soon as possible for the benefit of all the people of kosovo and which we hope will contribute to the common european future of the peoples of the region. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the serbian vice-president, mr đelić, on his statement yesterday to the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs that serbia is seeking a historic compromise on kosovo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i think that mr kacin's report is perfectly balanced and i congratulate him on it. the progress of serbia on the necessary reforms is reflected in this report in a realistic manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, there is still a significant backlog of cooperation with the international criminal court, including the handover of the last fugitives to the hague, which is a fundamental condition for serbia's accession. freedom of the press is one of the most important problems that the serbian government must solve, since there must be no political pressures or other influences that hinder the independence of serbian journalists. another problem plaguing serbia is the large number of refugees and internally displaced people facing housing and poverty problems, while unemployment is as high as 19%. i think we should help serbia and we should not forget that this country has just recently been through a war.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and for the text he has presented on serbia. the signing of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement is a key development for both serbia and the european union. the next stage, the next important step, is to obtain the status of candidate country. and i think that we should decide this next december. let's not forget that 2011 is an election year for serbia, as in march 2012 they will have parliamentary and municipal elections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it is therefore important that the european union should take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the situation in the former yugoslavia. we also noted the positive and constructive attitude of serbia and the serbian government towards a meaningful dialogue with pristina. we must encourage serbia.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would first of all like to wish everyone, especially the commission, the bureau and all the politicians, a good year, a year which is proving to be very difficult. i would like to make a point, in passing, in response to the invitation made by the president of the commission, mr barroso, to help him in a global economic governance to prove what europe is. it is a unified economic, cultural and perhaps political force. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the commission, and it is to be adopted by the council and the commission. the belgian presidency has generally been a very successful presidency. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last, and the european council in brussels on 15 and 16 december last, have been very positive in their efforts to bring about a new and more balanced and more effective european union. first of all, belgium has operated in a fully european manner; the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the presidencies usually add national issues. belgium has given us a good example of being europe, of dealing with the issues raised by the commission. he didn't aspire to put his own issues in. the second commendable feature of the belgian presidency is the model it has followed, the trilogy model, of tripartite cooperation: council, european parliament and commission. i would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen.
in writing. i voted against the report on humanitarian aid for two reasons. firstly, because it insists on linking civil protection and humanitarian aid to the eu external action service and to its foreign policy, whereas obviously the criteria for intervention should be clearly humanitarian only. i also think that it does not give the right direction in terms of linking political and military means to deal with humanitarian crises. it is obvious that in some cases special knowledge and the use of special equipment which the army has and uses so far are required. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the only way to provide real and effective aid in humanitarian crises without addressing the dangers of troop presence.
in writing. i voted against the report, despite the fact that it contains serious positive points and recognizes the role of agriculture in ensuring food security and food sufficiency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the commission to propose a faster eu authorisation procedure for the introduction of a new genetically modified feed variant once it has been proven safe. our position against the import and use of any kind of genetically modified material, food or feed remains firm and i could not in any case vote for a report which, for the first time, forms a positive attitude of the european parliament towards the genetically modified organisms which mr barroso is so eager to introduce into europe.
president of the commission. − we are pushing for that. we are trying to put the issue forward for the next european council. energy efficiency is still lagging behind, as you said. i am not happy with the situation and the commission intends to reverse it. energy efficiency is now an integral part of the headline target of the eu 2020 strategy. we are currently in talks with the member states to establish national targets to underpin this objective. we have already estimated that, with existing policies and measures, the saving by 2020 would be no more than 10%. however, the combined national indicative targets emerging in the europe 2020 discussions give a result that is clearly more ambitious than that, but still likely to be well below the 20%. that is why we intend to follow a two-step approach, by closely monitoring the progress made with the implementation of national targets defined in europe 2020, and reviewing this progress in 2013. if these reviews show that our target of 20% is unlikely to be achieved, the commission will consider proposing legally binding national targets for 2020.
president of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me say that the commissioner is the one who is proposing this additional approach to energy efficiency and i fully trust that he is doing his best to achieve that goal. we are also trying to link this energy issue to other policy objectives like the fight against climate change. that said, we believe this is not just a matter of setting targets, it is also about work in the member states, and so we believe that it is better for the member states to establish their own national targets and then we shall see. if they are on track, great. if not, we will at least propose binding legislation. but to achieve success it is sometimes better to start with a kind of voluntary target. at least, that is what we have done in the past and it has proved to be the right approach. we do not exclude – quite the contrary – a possible need for binding targets for each country, but let us also give the member states ownership of this policy and see how they develop their strategy.
president of the commission. − in general, the commission wants to reduce as much as possible the time for adoption and implementation. the issue is that member states usually ask us for a realistic lapse of time, so that implementation can proceed, as far as possible, in a coherent manner, avoiding distortions in the internal market, or at least in what we believe should be the internal market. one of the concerns in the energy sector is precisely the fact that we still have very different regulations. some progress has been achieved, and we are not starting from scratch now. on 4 february there will be the communications that we presented recently, and there is also of course the historic (i think we can now call it historic) climate and energy package that we presented some years ago under my previous commission. we are open to reducing the time gap but it is important to have an agreement with member states so that they act more or less at the same time in order to avoid these problems of distortion of competition in the internal market.
president of the commission. − first of all, i should like to congratulate cambridge university and your region. secondly, i hope to have the support of your group in the discussion on the multi-annual framework for appropriate budgetary commitments to support research, technology and innovation at european level. cambridge is one of the most developed universities in the world, but there are other universities in europe in the poorest regions that unfortunately do not have the same kind of access. thirdly, simplification is indeed one of our priorities for energy and innovation, and in this case for research. we are also going to discuss innovation in the other part of the european council. it is certainly one of our priorities and we are very happy to have the support of the european parliament for that. we hope also to have the support of the court of auditors and others. it is important to understand how important it is for scientists that they do not lose so much time on paperwork and that they have more time to concentrate on what they do best, namely research.
president of the commission. - mrs ilda figueiredo knows our position on budgetary consolidation. it is essential to do so, particularly in a country like portugal, which is facing some problems with its sovereign debt, but it is also necessary to do so in general in the european union. but it is precisely in the recommendations we have made in a document we have just published that we ask the states not to reduce investment in education and research, and particularly in the energy sector, if possible. and indeed, there are states that are doing this with great success, states that are doing budget consolidation programmes, but are even increasing funding for research and education. solidarity and cohesion must also be exercised in relation to the countries with the greatest financial difficulties. that is why i will not tire of defending economic, social and territorial cohesion at european level too. solidarity is important. solidarity cannot be a meaningless word. it is necessary, if i may use the expression, to make solidarity operational.
president of the commission. − you are rightly concerned with this problem of the lack of synergies at european level. that is precisely why i expect the european council to address this matter in a comprehensive way. in fact, european innovation partnerships are an instrument for creating synergies between already existing programmes at european, national and regional levels. by bringing them together under a single umbrella, i believe we can tap into their inherent innovation potential in order to deploy europe-wide solutions that address societal challenges. so one of the goals is precisely that of speeding up the step from research to market, from market-oriented innovations to market-oriented products and services. this will create the necessary pull for participation. hence we are seeking – in the commission and now with the member states – this comprehensive approach to innovation, looking beyond dgs’ portfolios and even national origins.
mr president, scientific studies published in the international press and, more recently, in the greek, israeli and cypriot press, indicate that there are large quantities of natural gas and oil in the aegean region and south of the island of crete. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in view of this, how does the european commission intend to encourage and support research into the detection and exploitation of these energy sources, which are in any case easier to transport to the european union than any other pipeline planned? and on this occasion, mr president of the parliament and mr president of the commission, let me say that i consider you to be very fortunate people, because your destiny has been to preside over an enlarged parliament in terms of its responsibilities following the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, and to manage a major economic crisis in europe. i share all of mr barroso's moves in this direction, but i would like to suggest something: there is also the american method, the issuing of new money. please, investigate her... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a directive which really solves the problem of using health services in other member states. the use of these services is already being made. the directive, however, harmonises and regulates the conditions for using these services. i agree with what my colleagues have said that health services must be of high quality and available to the citizen where he lives. but there is often a need to go to the health services of other countries, especially for rare diseases and new treatments. i also welcome the fact that special reference is made to the health services of hot springs and thermal springs. their use allows us to improve with few resources the prevention and treatment of many diseases and can be very important for health and our insurance funds. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to support this initiative to promote these services.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, the member states are being funded by the european union with resources to modernise the curricula of the member states. i would remind you, for example, that in the previous community support framework, the third, many member states used community funds for this purpose. and the question is specific: does the commission have data on the effectiveness of these resources which have been and will be made available to the member states?
member of the commission. − i can provide you with all the detailed data that we have on various member states. we have not analysed it, it is not our job to see why certain member states did worse than others, but during our work we exchanged good practices. i am very pleased to say that some countries that have followed good practices have shown very good progress since 2006 in most of these indicators. regarding elementary school, unfortunately we do not have studies similar to the pisa one. no such study exists.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission’s communication on europe 2020 and its communication on the digital agenda for europe set the objective of bringing basic broadband to all europeans by 2013 and seek to ensure that by 2020 all europeans have access to much higher internet speeds of above 30 megabytes per second and that 50% or more of european households have subscribed to internet connection above 100 megabytes per second. mr president, the commission is aware that without strong public intervention there is a risk of sub-optimal roll-out with fast proven networks concentrated in high-density zones and with remote and rural areas lagging behind. that would also have negative consequences on educational systems and integration of information and communication technology in education. the latest eu-wide data shows that only 67% of schools have broadband access and that there were large disparities between member states and between densely and thinly populated areas, 73.7% and 60.6% respectively. to avoid the risk of a sub-optimal roll-out, the commission has adopted a broadband package outlining a common framework within both national and regional policies, which should be developed to meet the targets. those policies should, in particular, lower the cost of broadband deployment in the entire eu territory by ensuring proper planning and coordination and reducing administrative burdens. the commission has already acted to increase investment in remote areas and regions within the framework of the eu cohesion policy with the programming of about eur 2.3 billion in the period 2007-2013. the commission’s communication on a european economic recovery plan also enabled the programming of eur 360 million in broadband measures for rural areas through the european agricultural fund for rural development. in its programme package the commission announced that it will reinforce and rationalise the funding of high-speed broadband through eu instruments by 2014 and explore how to attract capital for broadband investment through credit enhancement backed by the european investment bank and the eu funds. an ec-eib proposal on the issue is expected in 2011. another pillar from the digital agenda is dedicated to digital skills. here we propose for instance to consider digital literacy and competences as a priority for the european social fund regulation in the next programming period and to identify digital competences as a supplement to europass to ensure their transparency. education, as you are aware, is crucial to the development of digital competences in our society and we agree that without appropriate investment some regions may lag behind. the latest eu-wide data – i am talking about 2006 – shows that only 67% of schools had broadband access and that there were large disparities between eu member states and between densely and thinly populated areas. we are about to launch a new survey on schools and the results will be available at the end of this year.
commissioner, thank you for your very thorough reply. i would like to add the following: the commission will continue to support the development of the digital single market, in particular by supporting the development of the digital single market in the union. you yourself have said at times, in hearings before the relevant committees, such as the committee on culture and education, that in the next five years some 500 000 new jobs will be needed in these sectors. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the creation of these jobs is distributed fairly, without excluding geographically isolated areas.
commissioner, it is good to see what is happening in the alps. but in greece, because of the memorandum, the greek government is cutting and stopping services, which are isolating greece from the european and balkan railway network, citing, together with the commission, that the hellenic railways agency is heavily indebted. i would ask you, therefore, how you assess these developments, namely the reduction in railway timetables? and secondly, does the debt of the greek railways agency include the money for co-financing infrastructure projects with the european union?
commissioners, haiti is truly a unique case. we should all understand that. it's not a case of a humanitarian crisis where we deposit some money and the government then takes over how to implement the projects. haiti is a country in complete collapse. the only thing to be expected is that, given the situation in which it finds itself, it will have more corruption and more and more difficulty in dealing with the crisis and taking the necessary measures. it is a country in which our intervention should be stronger, more stable; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. mr. deva referred to the debris that has not yet been cleared so that the damage can be repaired. the debris must be cleared from the streets. that should be our priority. at the rate we're going, it'll take us another five years! this project must be finished immediately. there are so many projects that need to be done in this country that there should not be unemployment if all of these are done right. we really need to intervene forcefully on the issue of the ruins, on the issue of water supply, on the issue of food supply, so that this country can get back on its feet, so that the citizens of this country, who are forced to think every day about how to survive, can think about tomorrow.
mr president, we must recognize that since the beginning of the crisis europe, although totally unprepared institutionally and politically, has taken serious steps to deal with it. from the implementation of the greek support package almost a year ago to the decisions of the last european council to set up a permanent stability mechanism, significant steps have been taken. however, the continuing and widening market pressures - and no longer only at the expense of the most vulnerable euro area economies - demonstrate that our decisions are piecemeal and insufficient to give a comprehensive response to the crisis. we therefore need a comprehensive european response to the crisis, one that does not replace or ignore the responsibilities of the member states to meet their commitments and to repair their public finances, but protects these economies from market attacks and facilitates the success of their efforts. mr president, the european parliament, in a resolution adopted a few days ago, called on the european commission to carry out a feasibility study on the issue of eurobonds without delay. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, as you know, for the second time in the current financial crisis the united states government was forced to initially intervene dramatically to support the two big banks that failed and the insurance company ing. so it offered 700 billion in financial aid to its banking system. despite these measures, the u.s. economy needed more help, and the government generously recently provided an additional $600 billion in capital to help the economy out of recession. it is clear that the united states is issuing new money. mr president, unlike the us economy, the eurozone remains firmly committed to the principle of fiscal discipline, to a tightly controlled monetary policy, thus leaving room for various speculative enterprises to speculate at the expense of those less resistant to pressure from states. mr president, i propose that we consider issuing new money in the eurozone, perhaps it is the egg of columbus!
in writing. in his recent book, former british prime minister gordon brown says that the delay in eu decisions on the economic crisis in greece has resulted in an increase of 90 billion in the amount of loans needed by greece. the german failure to accelerate the process of increasing and qualitatively restructuring the loan fund creates a corresponding financial burden for greece and ireland. the commission is asking itself: how can it finally cover the costs of the delayed decisions of the council in the member states of the union? would the commission support greece in an attempt to find out the causes which have increased and are increasing its debt since the greek crisis was announced?
in writing. i voted today in favour of the joint resolution on intercountry adoption in the eu, which aims to improve the system of adoption between member states and to establish safeguards to ensure that adoption is in the best interests of the child with full respect for his or her fundamental rights. the resolution emphasizes the following: • the creation of a european strategy on adoption, which will define the rules for adoption from the poorest to the most developed countries and will make it possible to monitor the progress of each child placed under international adoption arrangements by means of periodic reports submitted by the competent national authorities in the children's country of origin. • simplification of the procedures required for adoption and reduction of red tape. • reducing the time spent by children in institutions and orphanages. • priority in national adoptions. (iii) the elimination of the unfair practices of child exploitation and trafficking for the purpose of adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease because the european commission and the governments of the member states are committed to drawing up european and national action programmes with the following objectives: - to promote research at european level on the causes, prevention and treatment of alzheimer's disease and to increase funding for it; - to improve prevention and early diagnosis; - to organise information campaigns for the general public with a view to improving the recognition of the symptoms of the disease; - to recognise the significant burden of caring for patients with dementia and to provide psychological support for patients and their families. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine and the introduction of a new vaccine. the public nature of research, prevention, treatment and support for sufferers, their families and relatives is important and not just for reasons of principle. the public character is necessary to avoid speculation by the pharmaceutical industries or other private interests. member states should provide the necessary public services and infrastructure to address the health and social consequences for patients and their environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european alzheimer's disease initiative, as it will help to improve the quality of life of patients and their families and reduce disparities between member states in terms of prevention, access to treatment and provision of appropriate services to patients with dementia. in europe, 1.4 million citizens have some form of dementia, and over 8 million europeans aged between 30 and 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases - half of them have alzheimer's - and their number is expected to double every 20 years. the report seeks to improve the situation, with the main objectives of promoting early diagnosis and prevention and improving the quality of life of patients, solidarity and a uniform approach between the various countries, from research to medical care, and the promotion of the dignity of patients throughout their treatment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 'situation in haiti after the earthquake: humanitarian aid and reconstruction'. the text of the resolution emphasizes the protection of human rights and dignity. it is recalled that at present in haiti, in addition to the conditions of poverty and the feeling of insecurity among the population (60% of the population lives in the countryside and 80% in absolute poverty), there is also a strong concern about the situation of the most vulnerable people who face violence, sexual abuse, trafficking in human beings, exploitation and neglect. the resolution calls on the commission to go beyond the simple detection of such cases and to make a practical contribution to the process of establishing a social protection system in haiti.
mr president, in recent times there has been a proliferation of incidents of religious violence throughout the world, which is a cause for concern and outrage. the prohibition of the exercise of religious beliefs is a flagrant violation of fundamental rights, as well as of international law, which states that the right to religion is inalienable and given. the banning of christmas services in rizokarpasos, occupied cyprus, by the occupying forces, the bombing of the christian church in alexandria against the coptic community are just two examples of the growing tension and religious hatred that is developing in many places not far from europe. the european union must develop a set of tools which will in practice safeguard the right of every religious belief. the message must be strong and clear that the european union will not tolerate such phenomena. i would ask the high representative to include in her priorities the assessment of the situation of freedom of religious expression. finally, at the level of the council and the european commission, it would be good to include the aspect of the protection of religious beliefs in all discussions with third countries.
mr president, a long time ago i wrote an article entitled 'the plural monologue'. plural means that many speak, and monologue means that one speaks. that's exactly the problem with our societies today. we all talk - and most of the time about ideas - and we only hear what we say. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of terrorism. i would point out that in the course of a century, from the beginning of the 20th century until now, while in the east christians represented 22% of the population, they are now estimated at less than 10%. so we have to be careful about this surge of islamism, because we have aging leaderships in both egypt and libya and other countries, and we don't know after their fall what can happen and where these countries can go. in view of this, i ask you, mrs ashton, through your influence to take initiatives to normalize the situation of religious fanaticism, with a corresponding christian and muslim.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i will be quite brief because honourable members have been very helpful in offering not only support for the breadth of the approach that we will be taking but also raising particular issues. if i pick up two of them, the first is – and in a sense mrs salafranca began with it – about how we should support regional initiatives, which are often dominated by individual countries but do not include all the members of the region, and how best to try and provide the kind of support that ensures we engage with all the countries of that region. i am putting it slightly more broadly than the honourable member did, but very deliberately so. one of the challenges for us is to back initiatives that countries are able to take individually and collectively, but ensure that they can be effective by ensuring that they are comprehensive, either in terms of the numbers of countries or in the approach that they take. one of the things we need to look at is how to balance our own actions against supporting actions from those most concerned. i am always very conscious of looking at ways in which we intervene, through our support and through the instruments at our disposal, to back up and support initiatives on the ground – home-grown initiatives – as being often but not always the best way forward. regarding the western sahara and the proposals being made, these are things we need to look at. i need to see where best we can lend support. i am conscious in a number of discussions with honourable members that these issues, particularly western sahara, have become more prominent. we need to think about this approach in a very comprehensive way. we will continue to work on this. it will be part of the discussions that we have at the foreign affairs council, but also something that we will return to with the parliament to make sure that we have got it right. it is now really important that we move forward into a strategy that really does consider the short, medium and long term but also the breadth of the way in which we can engage as a european union, as a parliament, as a commission and as a series of member states able to pack this up into one seriously thought-through strategy for the future.
the debate is closed.
colleagues, let me say in general that it would be greatly appreciated if those asking for catch-the-eye were present throughout the debate. it would make it much easier to be able to respond to the lively debate.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i very much wish to thank you and all the honourable members who have participated in this very important, focused and well-considered debate today. i will, of course, study parliament’s resolution on this important and challenging issue. it is now still only a month since this crisis began, and events move quickly. my hope is, of course, that they will now move in a positive direction, in line with the goals that we all share. the detainees should be released and belarus should lay the foundations to embark on an inclusive reform process. i stress my hope that parliamentary cooperation will continue to have an important role to play in that process. many honourable members have endorsed the ideas that i set out in the beginning: the need to be absolutely clear about the unacceptability of what has happened, to be clear that we wish to take steps on this, and to be clear that we wish to support civil society, young people, the media and students – the categories that many honourable members have talked about. i will take great heart from the comments that have been made. we will now move forward to make sure that we do this. finally, when i met the families and the opposition leaders who came to meet with me, i was absolutely clear with them that we expected to see people released from prison and belarus move forward, in the way that we would all wish, towards real democracy. i also made very direct comments to the foreign minister. it is in their hands to reverse their position and to do what they know that they must. if they do not, then the international community will and must act.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 january 2011. madam vice-president/high representative, i understand that you have been in the chamber since 15.00 and now it is 18.15. would you like us to take a five-minute break just to relax? it's up to you, otherwise we can keep going.
the next item is the report by mrs ana gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the negotiations on the eu-libya framework agreement (a7-0368/2010) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
mr president, just today the german government announced its decision to stop returning refugees to greece for the next 12 months. similar decisions have been taken by sweden, great britain, iceland and norway. however, just a few months ago, last november, the council of justice ministers did not accept the inclusion of a suspension mechanism for the transfer of asylum seekers in the revised dublin iii regulation, as had been proposed by the commission since 2008, and considered that dublin iii is well and there is no problem. at the same time we want - and we are right to do so and we must do so with the directive we are discussing today - to provide free legal aid to asylum seekers at the first stage of the examination of their application. but we know very well - and this was also mentioned earlier by mrs hohlmeier - that these procedures are often abused by applicants in order to extend their stay in european territory as long as possible by legal means, even though they are not entitled to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how we can, with such contradictory decisions, achieve a viable common asylum system by 2012, when we ourselves decide differently, propose differently and, in the end, take different actions and achieve different results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i would agree with many colleagues, but particularly with mrs herczog and mr repo, who have referred to the environmental importance of this area and the importance of protecting the rights of indigenous peoples. we think this area is too far away, too pristine; but there are people who live there, people who have culture. and the environment of the region is of particular importance. it's a critical area for addressing climate change and adapting to it. and i am really saddened to see the european union also getting involved in this competition to be the first to exploit, above all, the oil reserves in this region, now that the ice is melting. just because others do it doesn't give us an excuse to do it. our own voice should always express our values and we should always move towards the protection of these resources and towards a low-carbon economy.
madam president, we are discussing today a very important report on a particular region close to the european union, the black sea. the region brings together countries of the union as well as countries important for regional cooperation. it is therefore a common need to ensure that there is an area of peace, democracy, security and stability around the black sea. we have a stable framework of cooperation through the black sea consortium which has been in the works for some time, but without any tangible results. the successful implementation of this agreement, with the active participation of all the countries involved, will further strengthen our relations on the basis of common values. it must complement the established european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. the stability and security of the black sea has a direct impact on europe. the european union therefore shares the responsibility for supporting the peaceful resolution of conflicts and confidence-building. this region is of importance to the union, particularly because of its energy and transport links. strengthening democracy and a stronger rule of law system will facilitate trade, investment and mobility of persons. i fully support the idea of a specific budget line for the black sea region. this will help to modernise the area. it is up to us, madam president, to bring these countries closer to europe with our policies for the mutual benefit of all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how could it be otherwise, since, after the accession of bulgaria and romania, it is almost an internal sea of the european union? energy, security, stability and, of course, democracy are areas of our top concern for this region. since 2007, when we launched our policy in this multi-critical area, we have made some progress and some successes. but unfortunately we have also had delays and sporadic approaches and periods of inactivity. it is unfortunate that since 2008 no ministerial meeting has been organised on this policy. this situation falls short of our initial ambitions and, given the geostrategic, geopolitical and economic importance of the region, we have no choice but to strengthen our policy and action in the black sea. i therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal by the rapporteur, mr ungureanu, to upgrade european policy on the black sea to an integrated strategy, supported by a separate budget line of its own. in this context, i would like to stress, also as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, the importance of these two sectors, which must necessarily be part of a european strategy for the black sea. finally, it is needless to stress that the european union's integrated maritime policy can also make a significant contribution to the integrated sustainable development of the straits settlements. these things have to be done now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the black sea region is of great importance for europe's energy security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its energy needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the united states to take action. yesterday, the president of the commission, mr barroso, told us that he had been to azerbaijan and turkmenistan and that the talks had gone very well. what does that mean ? what does that mean ? we must at some point set a time limit. when will we know if nabucco is viable or not so we can save our energy and see what else we can do ? the nabucco issue, which is one of the main issues in the energy security of europe, is very important and needs to be clarified. do we have a supplier or not?
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of christians in the context of freedom of religion. the joint resolution, following the attack on worshippers praying in a coptic church in alexandria, egypt, on 1 january 2011, condemns all forms of violence against citizens irrespective of their religious affiliation and expresses concern at the increasing incidents of religious aggression. i would remind you that greece is particularly sensitive to these issues, having mourned the victims of a similar attack on greek tourists on 18 april 1996 by fanatical islamists in cairo, egypt.
on behalf of the efd group. i would like to add my voice to what has been said so far. the roma have made a decisive contribution to the development of europe and particularly to its culture. what i would like to point out, rationally, is that any programmes concerning roma in the european union which come from the commission are fragmented and usually fall within the framework of social exclusion. my suggestion would be for a more rational approach. the commission should therefore adopt an initiative for roma only, exempt them from social exclusion, and thus have a programme for roma only. in this way we will be able to work more effectively at national level for the roma.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i heartily wish our dear mr barroso good luck. good luck to all of us with the azeris and the turkmenis in the market. they say they have already promised to supply five other parties with gas. and this really raises the big question. a few years ago we had the russian-ukrainian crisis, and we are still battling with that. now we have the north african crisis. the price of oil is already rising. so it is about time that we put on the agenda on friday that europe has to look into its own resources and sources. it is about time we put exploitation, extraction, etcetera on the agenda. i think you could ask the member states to prepare maps of what is going on in terms of the exploitation of energy resources and sources in each member state, evaluate the most promising projects, adopt incentives for private companies to engage in exploitation, and see what we can do with our own resources. we face the most horrifying scenario of losing the suez canal. so, as for egypt, for all of us: orderly transition. otherwise we are going to have huge problems.
the next european council meeting, mr president, is taking place in the context of the capitalist crisis and the intensification of monopoly competition, both within the european union and between the european union and other imperialist centres, for energy and innovation. these are two key areas for capital. large regions such as the middle east, asia, africa are the scene of fierce imperialist competition and interventions to control the sources of wealth and the energy transport routes that cause immense poverty, cruel exploitation and oppression, in cooperation with the local bourgeoisie at the expense of the peoples. this reactionary policy is giving rise to the popular uprisings, as characteristically manifested these days by the people of egypt and other countries, proving that the protagonists of history are the people. the communist party of greece expresses its solidarity with the revolted people of egypt. it calls on the peoples to express their support and solidarity in practical ways. a key priority of the meeting, which is not formally on the agenda but will be discussed, is the european union strategy 'europe 20-20'. the same trend is being observed in the priorities for implementing enhanced economic governance.
mr president, with all due respect to mr verhofstadt and mr cohn-bendit, i should like to say to the high representative that i have very strong objections to what has been said by the two gentlemen. this whole situation reminds me of iran. please tread carefully in handling north africa. this part of the world is not europe. the question is: can you not recall what happened in iran? do you not see any similarities? do you not agree that we have to secure an orderly transition here? (the president cut off the speaker)
let me just note, mr tannock, that your favourable reference to liberal democrats created a lot of happiness in the middle of the room. you may have some explaining to do later on. (laughter)
mr president, i regret that i do not share the great optimism expressed by most of the speakers in this chamber. firstly, why should we ask ourselves why, especially south sudan, has gained its independence so easily when western sahara has a regime - as we know - and is not recognised as having this right. for me and the communist party of greece the answer is very simple. south sudan was lucky to have oil. we hope that oil will not become a curse for the people of south sudan as it was for the people of iraq or other peoples. there are still serious, unsolved problems. we believe, unfortunately, that the great powers will be competing more and more for this region and we call on the workers of south sudan not to succumb to divide and rule but to work with the workers of north sudan to forge a different perspective for their country.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the concept of bananas is familiar to all of us. these are the countries where the big banana companies have been able to put and take governments down as they please. when governments annoyed them, because they were trying to maintain minimal state rights or raise minimum wages, they even used coups against governments. in these countries, banana production is still carried out by the same companies. the destruction of forests and the environment, the poor working conditions and the use of pesticides - banned in the european union - are commonplace. at the same time, because of these multinationals, we are consuming 99% of only one type of banana, when there are a few thousand types of bananas, and this species is threatened, because of monoculture, by a specific disease. the support measures for the african, caribbean and pacific countries were particularly important and their reduction will change the reality for producers in these countries to a great extent. very poor countries that need our help. the european union is the world's largest and most profitable market for bananas. in the coming years we will really see these huge multinationals trying to dominate the european union market completely, pushing smaller producers out, and this is where our attention really needs to be. the commission must be vigilant in strictly enforcing european competition law to prevent large multinationals from abusing their dominant market position by artificially lowering prices first - in order to exhaust small producers - and then by creating cartels by raising prices so that they are too expensive for european consumers.
madam president, i shall start with egypt as a matter of urgency. the external service must be activated to the fullest extent possible in the difficult period ahead to protect european citizens in egypt, the rights of minorities in egypt and the historical institutions that represent them, such as the greek orthodox patriarchate of alexandria. now, to my main topic, the waste. while we have a high-level legislative framework, almost all member states are facing infringement procedures. there are many reports of waste crises and there are areas where there is a massive breach of community law, such as transfrontier shipments of waste. at the same time, the member states, for political reasons, the famous 'no in my backyard', are not participating as effectively as they should. the commission therefore needs to propose new complementary tools, such as the extension of the responsibilities of the european environment agency and the possibility of union fact-finding missions to the member states. let the commission consider this in the light of the proposals for 2012.
madam president, today, in a remarkable atmosphere of unanimity, the european parliament accepted the call by its president, mr buzek, for the european union to officially recognise the genocide of the roma, who were victims of the nazis during the second world war. he also said that the roma had been the most oppressed minority for a long time. but who are we addressing? who will implement the policies we decide together? the commission had commissioned a report on european roma policies covering 18 countries in july 2008 and received it in june. i have therefore asked the question, because i think it is totally unjustified to delay the publication of such a valuable report. there was even an international movement to get it published. ms reding replied to the question and undertook to publish it by the end of december 2010. it's already february 2011 and the report hasn't been made public yet. i'd love to know why.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the way to tackle the problem of the rapid increase in electronic and electrical waste, which is estimated to reach 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. the revision of the directive is a great opportunity to stop the leakage of dangerous substances due to the inadequate functioning of official collection points, unreasonable management and irregular transport. the main problems we are facing are: firstly, whereas 65% of electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market is collected separately, less than half is processed and declared, and the rest ends up in the environment or exported to third countries. secondly, the existing collection rate of four kilograms per person per year for household waste does not reflect consumption in individual member states and therefore leads to targets that are too low for some countries and too ambitious for others. thirdly, there are different registration and registration procedures for producers in different countries and finally the undertakings are not applicable. what we did was: first, we extended the scope to all waste, with only a few exceptions. secondly, we have strengthened the collection targets so that by 2016 85% of this waste will be collected. thirdly, we have secured a separate 5% target for the reuse of entire electronic and electrical appliances. fourthly, member states must ensure that sufficient resources are available for the collection of waste from households. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the ep report on the management of electronic waste, which is of particular importance for greece as well, as over 150,000 tonnes of electronic waste were identified in 2010. the main objectives are high-level legal treatment (as only one third of eu e-waste is currently legally collected and treated), the proper collection, recycling and reuse of valuable substances contained in waste, and the prevention of illegal shipments of waste, an obligation primarily incumbent on the member states. the key to this effort is to raise awareness among all the parties involved, manufacturers, consumers and public authorities, and to provide incentives for all to dispose of such waste in a correct and appropriate manner.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on tunisia, as did all the political groups, in an attempt to send a message of support to the country. the stability of the region is a fundamental and permanent european objective. in the future, the creation of a prosperous basin, where democratic regimes and respect for human rights prevail, should be a key pillar of the eu's neighbourhood policy in the mediterranean. we must not forget that sources of instability in europe's neighbourhood can trigger chain reactions and waves of refugees and migrants greater than those caused in the past by conflicts in central asia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'vaccine initiative against foot-and-mouth disease'. the resolution, which was supported by all political groups, is a result of the outbreak of the disease in europe and the united states over the past decade. the main reason for this resurgence of the disease is probably the large numbers of immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, who in many cases are unable to maintain basic hygiene standards. greece, which is facing illegal immigration today, is considered to have relatively high rates of tuberculosis in the developed world and therefore the proposals in this resolution, such as encouraging a large-scale vaccination campaign in the member states, disbursing funds from the european investment bank for this purpose and calling for the provision of public health services in the most remote areas are important for our country.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their report and the spirit of cooperation they have shown. the main problems in the implementation of the directive, although most member states have made considerable progress, are mainly, as the report shows, firstly, the lack of information to businesses about what is applicable in each member state and, secondly, the unnecessary administrative burden, i.e. the time-consuming procedures. these problems are a major obstacle to crossborder trade in services and to the creation of a level playing field in the market, and all that this implies. it is therefore very important for the proper application of the directive that the single points of contact act as e-government gateways, thus allowing for the remote processing of procedures and formalities and at the same time providing information on labour law, workers' law and, in particular, tax matters. however, in order to complete the market, to promote growth and to create new jobs, i believe that it is essential for the member states not only to speed up the implementation of the directive but also to adapt immediately any ambiguities in the directive, both for the benefit of the social partners and small and mediumsized enterprises and, in particular, to protect the rights of workers.
mr president, i come from greece and unlike austria, in greece, only a few months ago, in 2010, we started to implement the services directive. it has been passed into our national law. we are proud of this because we have achieved it at a very difficult time for greece, at a time of crisis, and it is very important that we achieve this because the first to benefit from the services directive, and in particular from the single information centres, are the small and mediumsized enterprises, which we need in the european economy more than anything else. i would like to remind you of two things that the other greek colleague who spoke, mr poupakis of the people's party, also mentioned, namely that it is very important to be informed and it is also very important to remove administrative burdens. finally, i would like to thank evelyne gebhardt, who, like a mother, has looked after this child, the directive on services, since the last legislature, has made him grow up, and i think that in cooperation with 'daddy', mr barnier, they will really be able to raise this child, the directive, for the benefit of european citizens.
mrs rapti, i gave you a little more time because birth always takes a little more time. i hope the baby is well!
member of the commission. - mr president, it is true that i and mrs gebhardt are in a real partnership, but that does not mean that we have to agree all the time, and i will make no other comment than to say that we must work together intelligently, mrs rapti. i was struck by what you said, mrs rapti, which i myself had seen during my recent visit to greece, and echoing the concern expressed by mr harbour about the growth reserve in this directive, that if it is used intelligently, within the limits provided for but with all its potential, it is clear that for the service economy which is so important - i wish, i repeat, that other agro-food or industrial economies were equally or more important - there is growth potential. and for open economies like the greek economy where services, especially tourism services, the tourist industry, are so important, this directive is an opportunity if we use it well. i would like to say to andreas schwab and to mrs gebhardt that they were right to point out the role of parliament in improving this directive and to confirm the vigilance of parliament in ensuring that it is properly implemented. i myself, as i have often said to president malcolm harbour, am very attentive to this implementation. today, almost all member states have opted for the adoption of a horizontal legislative act. mrs vergnaud, like mr canfin, pointed out - and they regretted it, but it is their responsibility to give their opinion - that france, but also germany, preferred to introduce the principles of the directive directly into their existing sectoral legislation. this approach, mrs vergnaud, may be contested or criticized, as you have done, but it is, in our view, clear and valid in the european context. i would also like to remind mrs hyusmenova that 23 member states have already adopted their horizontal transposition legislation. mr kelly said ireland was the last country. in two other countries, mrs regner spoke of austria and luxembourg, legislation is currently being considered in parliament. i would also like to remind mrs in 't velt that infringement proceedings are currently pending against seven member states for failure to communicate transposition measures. so you see, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the spirit of contract, of voluntarism. i myself go to the member states, as has been noted earlier. mr løkkegaard mentioned my visits on these particular subjects. but if necessary, and you can see that, we can be even more urgent through infringement procedures to ensure that this directive is properly implemented. mrs auconie, mrs handzlik, mrs sehnalová, mrs gebhardt and mr harbour all stressed the importance of multilingual one-stop shops. we share this view of the importance of multilingual services, also highly interoperable services, which are online and which can be used from the point of view of this wonderful tool, the internet, as lara comi or mrs roithová have said, or mrs herczog, who just mentioned these one-stop shops. i would also like to remind mrs handzlik that the commission is working with the member states to exchange good practice on these issues, both in imi and solvit. we have a group of experts to facilitate this exchange of good practice; we have launched a study to see how things are going and we will be organising, at the end of 2011, a conference on the practical operation of the single window, in the spirit of the single market forum that i would like to organise - this is a suggestion that mrs von thun und hohenstein made with president harbour - an annual single market forum to give a more human, more concrete, more citizen-centred approach to this market with businesses and with professional or trade union organisations. mr løkkegaard and mrs gáll-pelcz, who reiterated the commitment of the hungarian presidency, discussed mutual evaluation. it is also a new method which, if we succeed in it, will, i believe, be useful for other european texts. i am very attentive to this good mutual evaluation, which is a modern tool consisting of a case-by-case evaluation before being applied to other legislative instruments. president harbour mentioned the performance tests we've commissioned. why are these service-by-service performance tests being used to see the positive or negative interactions between certain european texts? because it is clear that, in order to apply the services directive correctly, attention must be paid to other texts, and i have the example of an architect based in belgium who works with clients in the netherlands and who may be subject, depending on the situation, to the services directive, the professional qualifications directive, the e-commerce directive, the consumer protection directives, to say nothing of other instruments. this is how we have to look - and this is what we are going to do with the performance tests - at the right interactions between these different european texts. i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to the very political point, which is also important to me, ladies and gentlemen, and which mrs gebhardt mentioned, namely the first point, namely the application within the framework of this directive and not to other subjects. i will therefore be as vigilant as you are about the temptation of certain states to use this directive beyond what is provided for, particularly in matters which could affect services of general economic interest. mrs auconie has raised this point, as did mrs svensson or mrs bizzotto earlier. i would also remind mr canfin, who asked me, that the commission is working on a text, as it has promised, which will clarify a communication on public service missions, missions of services of general economic interest. my colleague, the commissioner responsible for competition, joaquín almunía, is also working on an update of the monti-kroes package. so you'll have two tools, in terms of communication, that should clarify and avoid ambiguities and, sometimes, controversy or misunderstandings. the communication on missions of general economic interest or public service will be made during the year. i also say to mrs geier that the services directive must not affect the rights of workers; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to do so. finally, i would like to say to mr le hyaric, whose criticisms i have heard, that transport is not covered by the services directive, nor is health. this directive does not require any privatization of public services, and i shall pay particular attention to this, as well as to other matters, in the communication we are preparing on missions of general interest. in other words, ladies and gentlemen, i know that this directive has been the subject of debate. i would remind you that it has been greatly improved, that it is now quite clear and that we can use it to create the jobs and growth that citizens expect. i want us to be demanding - and you are right to be so - but i also want us to be objective about this directive and to build this single market for services together in the spirit and with partnership methods. i am determined to do so, as i have promised to do in front of you, over the next four years to give this directive its full measure.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 15 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the recommendation by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection (oj c 5538, 11.6.2011, p. 1).
in writing. the danube strategy demonstrates the crucial importance of an 'integrated approach' to the development of regions that share common challenges; challenges that do not stop at eu borders and which require joint action to address effectively. through the coordination of policies, financial instruments and stakeholders at different levels of governance, integrated responses will be developed to a range of challenges: untapped river navigation potential, insufficient road and rail links, threats to the environment. we all have a duty to contribute to the speediest and most effective implementation of the danube strategy, which together with the baltic strategy acts as a pilot project to develop best practices and mechanisms for their implementation in other 'remote regions'. the challenges to which the danube strategy is called upon to respond are clearly present in other wider geographical areas such as the balkans and the adriatic. it goes without saying that the impact of climate change on these regions is projected, and that they have the potential to develop green economies, transport and renewable energy. the european commission must also respond to these challenges by adopting corresponding 'macroregional strategies'.
the popular uprisings against the barbaric oppressive regimes of the plutocracy in the countries participating in the union for the mediterranean of the european union demonstrate the invincible strength of the peoples and at the same time reveal the hypocrisy of the imperialists. now the european union and the united states are in pain for the people's freedoms, democracy in egypt and other countries! for years, the us, nato and the european union have supported and strengthened these barbaric regimes with all their might, upgraded their commercial, economic and military relations with them, with capital and its political representatives, creating mass poverty, impoverishment of the peoples, political persecution and huge waves of economic migrants and refugees who are overcrowded and held in concentration camps in the member states of the european union. mubarak is still today co-chairman of the union for the mediterranean. the statements made by the european union and the united states to the rebellious peoples of the region have one and only one aim: to disorient the people's struggle. the peoples must not be trapped by the interventions of the united states and its allies. the communist party of greece calls on the people to express their solidarity with the struggling peoples in practice.
in writing. the implementation of the anti-working class "liberalisation" of services directive, known as the "bolkestein" directive, is being promoted by sweeping reactionary changes at the expense of the working class and the popular strata. the opening up of the services markets, which account for 40% of gdp and jobs in the eu, involves the abolition of collective agreements, the erosion of workers' wage, labour and social rights and gains, the selling off of strategic public sectors of the economy and the property of the people. the european parliament resolution on services calls for the eu and the member states' civil governments to accelerate capitalist restructuring to fully implement the services 'liberalisation' directive, on the basis of the commission's recent communication 'towards a single market act' in 2011, with the aim of further drastically reducing the workforce and penetration of monopolies into new gold-digging sectors for capital. the creation of one-stop-shops for service companies in all member states is the pretext for speeding up the implementation of the anti-union directive, whose ratification had provoked a storm of reactions from workers in all member states. the committee voted against the resolution on the implementation of the services directive.
in writing. the resolution on the draft regulation on bus and coach passenger rights significantly strengthens passenger rights. despite months of negotiations between the ec and the council, the final compromise text provides for a series of rights for passengers on these means of transport travelling distances of 250 km or more - instead of the 500 km originally supported by the council. within four years, the deadline for the implementation of this provision, greek coach and bus passengers and their partners will be able to be compensated for delays, postponements or unjustified changes to scheduled routes. the protection of these rights is both necessary and just, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the granting of an authorisation for enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection. the future of europe and the hope for the reconstitution of national economies and the productive fabric of countries such as greece, which are currently suffering from the crisis, pass through innovation. the legal protection of the intellectual property rights of those who aim to conceive and implement innovative ideas and products is therefore economically necessary and socially just.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to radioactive substances in the workplace is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. although i welcome the change in the legal basis and the strengthening of the role of the european parliament to ensure greater transparency in legislation and greater protection for citizens, i believe that the report is inadequate and several steps away from tackling the problem effectively. it modifies what has already been agreed and merely regulates the consequences rather than the source of the problem. it also leaves the upper limits of radioactive contamination extremely high, which is a major departure from the objective of protecting public health. for all these reasons i voted against the final vote.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, as the court's decision has shown, we are all trapped in dublin ii. as a result of the unequal burden sharing we have had the member states in a ping-pong of responsibility and complaints for years with the unfortunate refugees trapped in the middle. in the last year, greece has taken in 90% of the migrants and asylum seekers in europe. now with algeria, the pressure is shifting to italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the borders of our countries are european borders. our development policy, our foreign policy, or the lack of it, is a european matter. with the strong support of the european commission, my country has made tremendous strides in the last year to improve the asylum situation. but that's obviously not enough. the new dublin must stop the mass returns to the first member state. it must establish a real and effective solidarity between the member states. this is what parliament has asked for. it is time for some of the states in the council to stop playing pontius pilate and wash their hands of it.
mr president, to continue the debate, i will make a hypothesis: we see the turmoil in the mediterranean countries and the countries of the arab world. we see that many citizens of these countries are seeking to seek a better fortune in europe. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the citizens of these third countries are therefore coming to europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same restrictions as the citizens of the member states, and that the european union is not subject to the same restrictions as the citizens of the member states. then some of them apply for asylum. it is a given that we will again have dublin ii implementation there. and you know that even if there is an appeal by an asylum seeker on these issues, there will still be convictions, just as we have had convictions from national courts before we reached the european court of justice. so let's not pretend to be. and one more thing: there are some who will be arrested and will not be eligible for asylum. you know, under the agreement, the conclusion of which was announced by the commission, in order to be able to repatriate those who enter turkey, we have to wait two years for the agreement to be implemented and three years, which is the transitional period for third country nationals, for a total of five years. those who are arrested at this time, based on the crisis we are facing, we will have to wait until 2016 or 2017 to be taken back to turkey. i am afraid that with this kind of management europe is not up to the task.
madam president, the mediterranean is on fire! it is therefore understandable that migration flows will increase. as civilized people, we should treat all these people as human beings. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. according to the official report, the muslim population in the next 20 years will increase by 35% from 1.6 billion to 2.2 billion. europe today has only 2.7% of its inhabitants who are muslim. it is expected that with these flows and these births it will reach, twenty years later, about 6%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, madam commissioner, welcome to this meeting and thank you for being here. today the problem is in lampedusa. tomorrow he'll be in malta and crete. the day after tomorrow, even if we are not mistaken, he will be in milan, and after a while he will be in brussels or paris. the problem is not the partner countries of the south; it is a european problem! solidarity is required. we must also strengthen the measures and instruments at our disposal, whether it be frontex, europol or maritime surveillance. but it is also very important, eight years after its entry into force, to take a serious look at and revise where necessary the dublin ii agreement.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts to maintain the necessary balances between the economic viability and the social adequacy of pension systems, as in a period of high unemployment, labour deregulation, wage cuts and intense demographic challenges, the creation and consolidation of adequate, socially fair and economically viable pension systems is a major challenge for each member state. however, the first pillar, the public redistributive nature, must be at the heart of the systems as the only basic guarantee of adequacy of services and not be accompanied by the second pillar, which should function in a complementary manner, since it must first ensure not only access for all but also its security by establishing a governance framework. furthermore, the link between the extension of working life and life expectancy cannot in any way lead to automatic adjustments. in any case, other factors such as geographical characteristics, the nature of the work, heavy unhealthy occupations, quality of life and health should be taken into account. finally, any incentives to remain in employment must include such safeguards as to avoid hampering young people's access to the labour market, at a time when unemployment is unfortunately reaching unimaginable levels. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, we are voting tomorrow to revise this directive to deal with the danger of millions of falsified medicines in the legal supply chain, precisely because we want to protect public health from this silent killer. the main issue is the introduction of a mandatory safety feature for prescription medicines and, under certain conditions, for non-prescription medicines, which are at risk of falsification, based on certain criteria for risk assessment, as well as the strict control of online sales through authorised online pharmacies bearing the european union logo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to all medicines at risk of falsification and to tighten up the rules on online sales. these issues have been satisfactorily resolved in the final text of agreement with the council and we welcome this.
i would like to thank you for your reply, commissioner. according to published figures, the european union has allocated to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria between 2002 and 2010 resources amounting to eur 972.5 million, representing approximately 50% of the fund's total resources. i would ask you, in addition to what you have told us about the problems you have identified, has the commission carried out an evaluation report and an investigation into whether this money has gone entirely to its intended purpose?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thank you for pointing out some problems which are also at the centre of our attention, because it is a sacrosanct truth that products imported, legally or illegally, from outside the borders of the european union are often counterfeit. unfortunately, however, neither the european commission nor the community institutions have customs or police bodies responsible for checks, so we have to rely on the checks carried out by the various member states when entering the european union and when products bearing this mark are marketed. i will explain the details of this later in answer to mr higgins' further question, but i would like to point out that we have launched an information campaign aimed not only at promoting the ce mark but also at ensuring that there is greater product assurance through the verification of counterfeit goods. the suggestion to go to the port of rotterdam, where most toys arrive, is an idea i am cultivating and will probably go there myself to give a signal of the attention paid by the european commission to controls on products from outside the european union entering one of its largest ports. i agree that the use of the ce mark should be encouraged. we are at an early stage and i think we must continue along this path. this is the purpose of the information campaign, which was also initiated by the european parliament. we did a lot when i was still a member of the european parliament, insisting on the need to have a brand that would, at first, guarantee compliance with community rules. we must not forget that the ce mark is not a european quality mark, but merely indicates that certain community rules have been complied with - a kind of self-certification, therefore, or third party certification. the european parliament, which urged me to do so during the hearing a year ago when i presented my candidacy for commissioner to it through some of its members, wants the ec mark to be replaced by the quality mark. i am not opposed to this, but i think that it is first of all necessary to stimulate and increase the use of the ce mark through the information campaign within the union. more needs to be done and, in a second phase, further new initiatives should be considered. but first of all we must work to make the ce marking a common practice for all businesses in the european union, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, which probably need more information. i confirm my commitment to better information. i welcome debates and questions like these - and i thank mr higgins for them - because they stimulate debate through the activities of the european parliament, individual members and the work of both the commissioner and the commission and parliament representative offices in the european union. it is essential to inform individual member states and individual business organisations of the importance of using this tool, as i have already urged in my speech, and to put pressure on member states to ensure that there is strict surveillance both at the frontiers and within the market, so that the phenomenon of counterfeiting and the unlawful use of the ce mark is eliminated or at least attempted to be reduced, in order to protect our products and to ensure that community rules that protect the interests of consumers above all are respected.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i will try to be as precise as i was when i was a member of parliament. we are dealing with topics of great interest, in particular the european commission's desire to support the entrepreneurial spirit and improve the environment in which businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, operate by supporting them in accessing markets in third countries: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this is why the commission's review of the small business act for europe, adopted in 2008, is due to take place in the coming days. the principles and provisions of the small business act are fully consistent with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy and their implementation at national level will be ensured through the support of all stakeholders. this means that all member states and business organisations will be involved in monitoring the results achieved. we want to ensure that the principles set out in the small business act, which aim to promote entrepreneurship and to eradicate the 'small' thinking in policy-making, are implemented at both community and national level. we have already introduced a test for small and mediumsized enterprises, which is intended to take greater account of the impact assessment procedure of the various policies and the constraints which restrict small and mediumsized enterprises. the review of the small business act will include measures to harmonise the use of this test and to improve the quality of assessments. in addition, all member states will be encouraged to follow the same approach in their national decision-making procedures. aware of the need to reduce administrative burdens and eliminate disparities at national level, we will indicate concrete actions - such as the creation of one-stop shops and the use of egovernment to accelerate the processes. the commission also organises exchanges of best practice between national administrations on specific topics. to stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of young people and to promote crossborder business cooperation in europe, we have set up the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, also at the instigation of the european parliament, and the results have been positive. we therefore intend to try to give the project a legal basis by turning it from a pilot action into a permanent programme. we have also planned measures specifically for women entrepreneurs: we have a network today of 250 ambassadors from 22 european countries. i hope this network can be intensified. finally, we are working to create mentoring programmes for women entrepreneurs in at least 12 eu countries. as regards assistance to smes for export and investment outside the union, we launched a wide public consultation early last year on our intentions to strengthen support measures, the results of which will allow us to adapt the proposed guidelines to enhance support services for smes while ensuring an efficient use of public funds. we have already built up a solid experience in assisting the internationalisation of smes - i am referring to the projects which have been quite successful, such as the help desk in china for intellectual property rights of small and medium-sized enterprises, the eu-japan centre for industrial cooperation, the enterprise europe network, and the training programmes. in addition, on the basis of the results of a study financed by parliament, we are preparing a communication on the strengthening of support for small and mediumsized enterprises on the markets of third countries. as regards emerging economies such as china, i can confirm that, under the small business act, the commission has used the funds allocated by parliament for preparatory actions, allowing centres for assistance and support to european small and mediumsized enterprises to be set up in china and india. i was personally present in beijing last november for the opening of the european union centre for small and medium-sized enterprises in china. i would also like to inform you that the european commission will appoint tomorrow the new 'mister sme', mr daniel calleja, deputy director-general of the enterprise directorate-general, who will be responsible for monitoring the application of the small business act and acting as a reference point for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission document, which is now being approved, calls on all member states and local authorities to appoint a mr or a miss sme, to oversee the application of the small business act within the territories of the european union. i am pleased to report that we have already received positive feedback from several member states and regions of the union.
i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for what you have said, and it is indeed very ambitious. however, i will go back a bit: the competitiveness council in december 2008 called on member states to reduce the start-up time of a company to a maximum of three days, and the commission of course committed itself to monitoring this development. three years later, in the midst of the economic crisis, we see that in greece it takes 15 days to set up a company, in austria 11 days, in finland 8 days, in belgium, on the other hand, only one and a half days. so we have big discrepancies. and i ask you: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, i had hoped that a year and a half after the last parliamentary elections in albania, the political impasse would have been over, resolved. i had hoped that, following the recommendations of the european parliament's resolution, our words would be taken into account. i was convinced that the prospect of albania's european integration would be a powerful incentive, if the albanian people so wished, to solve not only the political problem but also economic, social and democratic problems. unfortunately, the deadlock is still there. the question of who is most responsible is not our business, i believe, but the albanian people's. but unfortunately things have gotten worse. i would like to express once again my condolences to the victims of the demonstration on 21 january. we are against the escalation of violence; we call for an end to the repression, for respect for human and democratic rights and for the perpetrators to be punished. but i do not hide from you that i am worried about the upcoming municipal elections in may. it is essential that - and here too we must do everything possible - all the necessary guarantees be provided to ensure that the process proceeds smoothly. we must press for the involvement of all political forces in this electoral process and it is very crucial that these elections be held in accordance with the international rules of free and democratic elections. i believe that our assistance, the assistance of the european parliament and the european union in general - and i agree with mr füle's position - must be supportive, must be helpful and obviously must not be characterized by party affiliation and political friendships (permit me to use that expression). we will not be the solution to the albanian society and the albanian problem. this must be the business of the albanian people, of the albanian political forces. i do not agree with the thoughts that are being heard about threats of action, when most of what is being heard are measures that will be to the detriment of albanian citizens. i do not think that we will get any concrete result. i believe that through the institutions of the european union, in the context of relations with a country which is in the lobby of the european union, we can exert the greatest possible influence, stressing that all these procedures unfortunately delay the prospect of accession. and we must point out that the impasse will only be resolved by the responsible attitude of political leaders, by the logic of political dialogue and not, as has been said, by winner-take-all practices and attitudes. i believe that if the political leaders of albania persist in this practice and in this logic, the impasse will intensify and the crisis will deepen, and so this country will not be able to face serious problems, apart from the political problem, problems that will arise and are already arising from the economic crisis that is affecting the neighbouring countries, italy and greece, since remittances from these countries were helping to some extent the economic situation of albania. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the european union which is the most important force in the world.
mr president, we are following with great concern the events unfolding in albania. the dramatic developments in the demonstration against corruption, with human casualties following clashes with the security forces, must be explicitly condemned. the continuing political crisis poses very serious risks to stability in the country. everyone has a share of the blame. but the elected government must take the message that the people are sending that the country needs good governance. the creation of a rule of law with a crackdown on corruption should have been a priority for the albanian government. the people have the right to protest within the framework of the law when they believe that the actions of the government are directed against them. the european union must do everything possible to ensure that calm and prudence prevail. we must all be present in this process. i call on my colleagues in the people's party not to ignore the heavy responsibilities of the government and to blame the political crisis solely on the opposition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to make the following point: it is striking that while growth rates in albania are steadily rising - and i recall that in the midst of global economic instability, growth in the country exceeded 2% in 2010, and for 2011 it is forecast to reach 3% - social tensions are still rising rather than easing. it is clear, commissioner, that development has not instilled in the albanian people a sense of prosperity. on the contrary, it is also evident that there is growing frustration and with it fears of a new wave of migration of its citizens to neighbouring countries. we experienced this very strongly in the 1990s in greece. the european union is therefore obliged to support albania in practice, in addition to political concessions, in this difficult time, and to transfer practices and examples so that development can benefit all social groups.
in writing. there is deep concern and concern about the ongoing crisis in albania and the threat to geopolitical stability in the balkans. the political confrontation between government and opposition is putting albania's european perspective in doubt, and president sali berisha has no intention of resigning. although there are few parallels between albania and recent developments in north africa, what is similar is poverty, unemployment, a corrupt client regime and a lack of democracy. although the crisis in albania has temporarily subsided, we must work closely with albania to normalise the political situation. the commission should explain to us how it intends to ensure the protection of the rights of greeks and other ethnic albanians in albania, through a smooth democratic functioning of the system, as well as the strengthening of frontex at the greek-albanian border, since there is a risk of a flow of migrants to greece due to the political turmoil. the commission should also take seriously the fact that albanian nationals no longer need visas to travel to turkey, which makes it easier for them to cross europe's southern borders from there, starting with greece as their first destination and then on to the rest of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i feel i also made a very strong statement. firstly, i would emphasise that the world bank energy strategy is very welcome because the world bank plays a very particular role in the world, particularly in dealing with development issues. it is not an understatement to say that they are leaders of public opinion and approaches to development strategies. my point is that we should address this issue with all seriousness. at the same time, we should not forget a couple of elements that are very crucial when we are estimating our answer to the strategy. there are still a substantial number of households today that have no access to any type of energy. it is true that, although we have been discussing the issue for 20 years, substantial investment in the energy sector or energy service provision have not been delivered to hundreds of millions of people, particularly in sub-saharan africa. so i believe that we need to understand the scale of the challenge. the second point that we need to take into account is growth. each of the countries that are on the path of development have an immense growth in demand. we should respond to growth in demand with supply. there is an additional fundamental challenge because of the scale of this. the third point – and here i fully agree with ms keller – is sustainability and anticipation. whatever the energy sector does should be considered in the light of the consequences that it has on climate change. we know that the energy sector which exists today is the biggest cause of greenhouse gases. additionally, we should also look at the price of fossil fuel, because we should not forget that the challenge of fossil fuel prices is still ahead of us. i hope that we will face this later rather than sooner, but it is definitely part of anticipation of the strategy. as for the orientation, i would expect parliament to take account of the green paper on eu development policy, where we make access to renewable energy in developing countries one of the central pillars of the new eu development policy. if we do not take this pioneering step, we cannot easily expect to convince the world bank and others that we should be focusing investment on renewable energy. i believe that we are capable of managing the scale of investment in renewable energy. we just need to have courage. it is true that it requires a lot of financial means today, but any energy strategy would require quite a lot of investment. so, if i see anticipation of the prices, i would always argue that renewable energy is definitely the one that should be at the heart of any energy policy in any part of the world. our knowledge of renewable technologies today gives a good guarantee that we really could make a change in these countries. i also believe that there is a lot of untapped potential. i know that hydropower, for example, is a rather challenging source of energy from all points of view but, provided environmental sustainability analysis is being done, i believe that most countries also have a fantastic untapped potential in hydropower, which gives additional arguments that the scale – the inga dam – for example is huge. at the beginning we need to lead by example. if the eu is able and you discuss a report on the eu development policies green paper, parliament should strongly support driving eu development policy in this direction. we will have a better argument for convincing the world bank to actually follow this drive and be more focused on investments in the coal-fired power station. the bank has now established six criteria as general guidelines for future coal investment. the world bank, under the leadership of bob zoellick, is extremely active in the debate, so it would seem that the world bank is an asset and not something that we should be afraid of. it is our ally but we really need to provide european leadership on this issue and in the energy sector for the developing world. i would also like to address the issue of the eib, because it was in the question. the cotonou agreement is the legislative basis for eib activity for an amount of eur 3.1 billion to acp countries. a major instrument in this framework is the acp investment facility. the facility finances infrastructure and climate-friendly energy projects. as far as the energy sector is concerned, no projects exist in the area of fossil fuels. the general policy is very clear – to fund climate-friendly energy projects based on wind, hydraulic or solar energy. in the context of the mid-term review of the eib external mandate – covering pre-accession, neighbourhood and partner countries, asia, latin america and south africa – a proposal has been put forward by the commission to activate an additional eur 2 billion mandate for 2011-2013 to support eib financing operations in the field of climate change mitigation and adaptation across all regions. the proposal stresses that the eib’s own rules and procedures shall include the necessary provisions to ensure that only projects that are economically, financially, environmentally and socially sustainable are supported under the mandate. i believe that the eu has already taken some steps in the right direction, but we could really take more steps to provide real leadership for the world, not least by addressing the world bank’s energy strategy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner piebalgs, first of all i would like to congratulate franziska keller on her excellent work on this report. indeed, those who worked on this report saw how unsustainable the world bank's strategy is in many respects. as franziska keller said, it finances large-scale, unsustainable projects, like hydroelectric and many others. it is a fact that funding for renewable energy projects has increased by 300%. at the same time, however, financing for fossil fuel projects increased by 430%. the world bank, and this is, i would say, outrageous, does not calculate the environmental footprint of the projects it funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it does not respect the principles of free and prior and adequately informed consent of the indigenous people to the projects it funds. it's the principle of free, prior and informed consent. it also does not (and should) incorporate full cycle analysis, the life cycle cost of the projects it funds. i really hope that this report, as it will come out after the final vote, will send a strong message about the necessary environmental reforms that the world bank needs to complete internally.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you very much for this encouraging and constructive debate. the draft european parliament resolution, with its balanced message, is of vital support for the work undertaken by the commission. it provides much useful guidance for further work by croatia, and i particularly welcome the many references to fairness, quality and credibility made during today’s debate. i also fully agree with those statements made today underlining that this whole process and the efforts required are for the benefit of croatian citizens. those benefits will have to be clearly communicated in the months to come. the constructive and steadfast support provided by parliament for croatia’s accession process is an important signal. it is important not only for croatia itself, but for all the candidate countries and potential candidates. indeed, your support will encourage them to keep up the intensity of their efforts on the path towards the european union and closing negotiations successfully.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first and foremost, on behalf of the presidency, i would like to express my acknowledgement and thanks for parliament’s – and in particular the rapporteur, mr swoboda’s – continuous engagement and positive contribution to the efforts we are making to advance not only towards the successful enlargement to include croatia, but the progress of the enlargement process as a whole. i firmly believe that all these efforts have been very well demonstrated by this morning’s very constructive and very useful debate. i also firmly believe that the resolution to be adopted will underline parliament’s crucial role, which indeed goes beyond the concrete item of croatia’s accession. this will send an extremely important message to european public opinion, to the citizens of europe, to the effect that enlargement does indeed serve their best interests, and it will perhaps convince them that the enlargement fatigue which developed, and was felt, right after what we now call the reunification of europe, has gone, and that the train of the enlargement process has to go on. at the same time, it will also send an extremely important political message to the other candidate and aspirant countries. this is also underlined in your report and resolution. we all know that the key factor of stability, cooperation and reconciliation in the western balkans is indeed the european perspective. so the european perspective has to be credible and has to be underlined and demonstrated by concrete measures. that is precisely the upcoming accession of croatia to the european union. we all know that what we have here is unfinished business. europe is still not a whole and our fundamental objective is to take this process on. some extremely important remarks and comments were made with respect, for example, to whether the accession negotiations have been too long or not. it is true that they have lasted almost six years and that this is longer than the negotiation process was for our countries. what i would recommend now is that we look to the future and try to speed up this process as much as we can. very many important advances and achievements have been made on both sides, and i would only underline again and again our determination that, with combined efforts on all sides, we can now make a credible, good quality enlargement. this would be an extremely important message for all of us, inside and outside the present european union. i would like to thank you again for your extremely important thoughts and comments, and also to express my thanks to the commission – all that of course in the hope that we will be able to realise our objective, which is, i repeat, to conclude negations before the end of june this year.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure on the subject of this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 16 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 14)
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on europe 2020; the report by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2011) 0006 - c7-0033/2011 - 2011/0007 (cns)); and the commission statement on the implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (a7-0040/2011).
madam president, poverty, climate change, low birth rates, immigration, energy and, above all, the fight against unemployment are the main problems facing the european union today. to deal with them, you need money, you need credit. but across europe, unfortunately, there is a credit crunch. what does that mean ? what does that mean ? strategy 2020 is precarious; it's hard to succeed. but we have to try. i think that we should pay particular attention to unemployment, which is at its highest level in the last decade. i also believe that we must provide quality education for europe's young people, which is adapted to the needs of work, and that the curricula must be reformed so that the member states commit themselves to reducing early school leaving. the vacancies require a skilled workforce. i call on europe to adopt without delay the proposed european job vacancy tracking system, which also includes a european skills passport. we have to make it. reasons are not enough. we have to take action.
madam president, for months now we have been discussing in the union an effective, coherent and sustainable response to the crisis, a response which will ensure the achievement of our strategic objectives, which are sustainable growth, protection of employment, social progress and social cohesion. but there are two problems: firstly, the debate on strategy 2020 remains organically disconnected from the economic governance package, the european semester, the annual development review, with the result that we have either a fragmented strategy or parallel strategies, strategies running in parallel, without sufficient coordination, with the result that they risk undermining each other. the second problem is that the emphasis today on the part of the council and the commission is on tightening the rules of the stability and growth pact and on budgetary discipline and adjustment, without convincing answers and solutions for the effective implementation and financing of the objectives of the 2020 strategy. i believe that there is a risk, as was the case with the lisbon strategy, that many of our objectives will remain on paper, and i fear that this will happen if we do not convince the european citizens, who are bearing the brunt of the crisis, who cannot and should not follow the technical discussions on the reform of the stability pact, on the indices and on sanctions. we must realize that we cannot deal unilaterally with indicators and figures. we have to deal with the people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question with the blue card is not generally addressed to the house, the commissioner or the council representative. it is addressed to a colleague who develops a matter on which you wish to seek clarification. mrs morvai, that was not the spirit of your question.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members for this very substantial, inspirational and stimulating discussion. i would like to answer all the major points that have been raised as questions or comments and observations concerning the annual growth survey, the economic semester and europe 2020 in general. the most important thing is that we get the picture right, both about the documents and also about the economic situation in the european union. the inconvenient truth is that europe is experiencing a recovery. last year we already had economic growth in the european union – but not in every member state – and that is where the second part of the inconvenient truth comes. we are experiencing a very fragile and divided recovery. the commission has looked at this situation very thoroughly and developed policies accordingly. we need to maintain and strengthen the recovery, and we have to address the current division. this will not, however, be possible without addressing the weaknesses that have been exposed by the crisis in economic and monetary union, which we will do by developing further the architecture of economic and monetary governance in the european union. that is where the complications begin and where it may be true that the priorities are not always immediately recognised by everyone. for us, economic growth is the priority and all other policies in this phase serve this. we need to strengthen growth and make it more robust, but in order to do this we need a greater level of financial stability, and for that we also need fiscal consolidation. it is inevitable that, in the coming years, fiscal consolidation will remain on the agenda in the interests of stabilisation and of being consistent with the kinds of cyclical intervention which the member states implemented against the recession in previous years. we need a smart consolidation which does not undermine demand in the economy and which preserves the integrity of the eu economy as a whole. this lesson has to be learned. this must begin by stabilising the euro. i could obviously use stronger expressions here, but let us just stick to this one. we need to stabilise the euro and economic and monetary union. the lesson we share is that, in order to do that, we need to strengthen the economic leg of this union and the economic leg of policy coordination at european level. let me just ask a question and leave it as a question on this. the question is whether the strengthening of the economic leg of governance can succeed without a collective effort on wages, on coordinating wage developments in the european union. when i say that, and when we include suggestions in this area in the annual growth survey, it does not mean that we would question the importance of the social dialogue – quite the contrary. we have praised countries with a tradition and culture of strong social partnership. we recognise that they suffered less from the crisis and, in particular, suffered fewer losses in terms of human resources. unemployment remained lower in these countries. we advocate the strengthening of social dialogue in other member states which have suffered more and which responded to the crisis with less flexibility than countries like germany, the netherlands or austria. we have also increased the level of social dialogue at european level. we recently held macroeconomic dialogue with the social partners and we will have a new tripartite social forum in march in order to enhance coordination and dialogue with the social partners. i would like to reject very categorically the notion that the commission is doing business as usual. in the last year the commission has introduced a number of qualitatively new initiatives. we are pursuing a robust agenda for financial regulation. commissioner barnier’s work should not be underestimated. as part of europe 2020, we outlined a new concept for industrial policy at european level which does much more for competitiveness and the sustainability of jobs in the european union. we are pursuing a number of innovative approaches to boost investment and to find funding for it. a group of commissioners has been working to develop innovative financial instruments. the first example of this is going to be an outline for supporting developing energy networks in europe. this is absolutely necessary in order to develop the energy markets and the necessary infrastructure that is vital for it. we have launched the microfinance facility. i am grateful to parliament and the council for the final consensus that made this possible last year. just last week i was present in the netherlands at the launch of the first eu-supported microfinance facility and there are more in the pipeline in order to support potential entrepreneurs, perhaps after the experience of being unemployed: women coming back to the labour market after childbirth or people who have already been working and want to seek a new form of enterprise beyond 50, or even 60. when we discuss employment policies – and a good example of this was a couple of weeks ago when the epsco council was hosted by the hungarian presidency in gödöllő – we focus on how to generate job-rich goals, but also on the groups in most difficulty. in this case i must mention in particular young people. youth unemployment is very dramatic in some member states. again we have to be aware of diversity. luckily, there are some member states where youth unemployment is low, but the european average is too high. in some member states, like spain and the baltics, it is at a tragic level. the governments have been alerted and a complex set of policies, from education to employment services and other types of measures, is required. but youth is not the only problem group. it is true that we have to do more with regard to the employment of older workers. that is why we designated 2012 the european year for active ageing. on the institutional questions concerning the employment guidelines – which i believe continue to be our focus and provide guidance and substance – there is a clear role for the european parliament under article 148 of the treaty. the employment guidelines are to be renewed. this is confirmation that we want them to continue until 2014; they should neither be subject to major changes nor overruled by annual growth surveys. the guidelines provide long-term orientation, while the growth survey is an annual exercise that concerns its substance. but it is obviously true that the nrp exercise is crucial and that the commission is pursuing it very seriously in the context of europe 2020. parliament will be involved in the discussions in various ways. i should refer here to the multiannual financial framework negotiations. the eu budget also has to reflect 2020 priorities and we will keep parliament informed about the preparation of the national reform programme as the country-specific recommendations develop. it is clear that there is concern at this early stage about the future of europe 2020. in a way, a spectre is haunting europe 2020: that of the lisbon strategy. i have had many opportunities in this house to discuss why we believe there is a much better chance, through a more focused system of targets and also a more focused system of reporting and implementation, of success with europe 2020. only the commission can ensure that there is consistency between these initiatives. we have a number of balls in the air and we have to make sure that none of them falls while conducting economic policies: europe 2020, economic governance, the single market and cohesion policy. none of them must be damaged in this exercise. all of them need to be pursued in a very robust way, ensuring that all 27 member states are involved. the commission is obviously against the concept of a two-speed europe. we have to ensure that the divided recovery which we are experiencing does not turn into political divisions in the coming period.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first and foremost i would like to thank you all for the very constructive and useful debate. i also would like to extend my special thanks to mrs perez for her excellent report and the very important observations and criticisms that she made. we may have a different reading of the reality, as referred to by mrs danuta hübner, both for a crisis and for the recovery, but i believe that we all agree on one point, and that is that nobody is interested in a jobless recovery. we are all striving for a balance between fiscal consolidation and growth and job creation. indeed, fiscal discipline and the raising of employment levels should go hand in hand. on a more general note, on economic issues, we all know that now we have a comprehensive approach, a comprehensive ‘package’ or ‘gesamtpaket’, as some people say, most of the elements of which have just been referred to by commissioner andor. as far as the presidency is concerned, i would just like to underline again that we have to focus upon two of all the elements of the package. one is certainly the implementation and the application of the european semester. this is the first time, it is the first exercise. it will have a major impact on the subsequent development of the whole european integration process. just to mention two things briefly. one is that we have a very tight schedule, so the deadlines must be respected by all, and the headline targets will have to be achieved. we have to make all possible efforts to ensure that the overall deadlines are met through the contributions of the individual member states, in the fields both of employment and innovation, and of energy. let me just mention, about energy, that there was a very successful meeting of the european council on 4 february. for many of us it represented a kind of breakthrough, both for the establishment of the integrated energy market and for energy efficiency. important decisions were also made with respect to the external aspects of the common energy policy. last but not least, i would just like to mention the fight against poverty, the fight for social inclusion. in this respect, i would like to congratulate you on the resolution you have just adopted on roma integration. i would like to extend my very special congratulations and thanks to lívia járóka, who played a decisive role in the preparation of the report, and also in the adoption of this extremely important resolution, which will be very helpful for us when we work on and finalise the european framework strategy for roma integration. the other element we want to concentrate upon is the six legislative texts. here i would like to assure sylvie goulard that we do not only want to listen to parliament. we indeed would like to have, and we have to make, an agreement with parliament under the terms of the ordinary legislative process. we will have to do everything possible so that this process is accelerated and can be successfully concluded by the end of the hungarian presidency. i do not want to get into the other elements of the comprehensive package. i would just like to underline one thing. the council wants to fully respect the community method. we have no reservations whatsoever in this regard. as we said many times before, the lisbon treaty changed many things. there were major shifts in competences. we all know about them. but the treaty of lisbon did not change the heart of the european architecture and this is the community method. we will strictly abide by that. of course, we always have to be in line with the treaty. i would just like to refer to the fact that if you read carefully the conclusions of the european council of 4 february, you will find there that everything must be in line with the treaty. now my last remark is very short. it is about the money. as was pointed out by lena ek, policies need money and policies need financing. i could not agree more. but we know very well that there are divergences in the approaches of the member states. at this point in time i would just like to underline one thing from the point of view of the presidency: we warmly suggest that first we discuss the substance and thereafter discuss the figures and the monies and the resources. there will be a long debate. we will have very useful orientation debates on cohesion policy, on energy policy, on agriculture and so on, but, as is said sometimes, il ne faut pas mettre la charrue avant les bœufs. so, all in all, we would really like to help all these debates and then come to the real debate, the final debate about the resources. again, i would like to congratulate you all and thank you very much for the guidance we have received.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure on europe 2020 and one motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure on the employment policy of the member states. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 17 february, at 12 noon. the commission
we're noting that. thank you very much. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the trafficking of counterfeit medicines has been a growing threat to public health in recent years. there is worrying evidence that in addition to the internet, counterfeiters are now increasingly entering the legitimate supply chain of medicines. i voted in favour of the matias report because: 1. put patient protection at the heart of the legislative proposal by taking measures concerning access to safe, quality and appropriate treatment and information. the commission's proposal for a directive on the marketing of medicinal products for human use, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, will be based on the principle of the free movement of medicinal products within the community. 3. establish safety features for prescription and non-prescription medicines on the basis of a blacklist, with the aim of preventing the penetration of falsified medicines into the legal supply chain. 3.it shall enforce full traceability of medicinal products and, at the same time, establish an early warning system in all member states for the recall of medicinal products suspected of being dangerous. 4. considers falsification of medicines to be an activity of organised crime and imposes strict sanctions on falsifiers of medicines; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data in respect of the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on support for financing for smes in the next programming period. small and mediumsized enterprises and family businesses form the backbone of most european economies. it is the laboratory for the production of innovative ideas and original products. it is also the enterprises which have always been the engine of economic growth. in greece in particular, the current economic recession requires support for this category of enterprises, which also constitutes the vast majority of the business presence in the country. the european parliament wishes to make it clear that the new generation of eu programmes for smes must be geared to the new european economic conditions and must be guided by the need to facilitate access to financial loans for smes and the creation of flexible financing mechanisms such as microcredit.
in writing. i voted against the report on the green paper on european pension schemes. the report clearly promotes the anti-social policies of the european union and the neoliberal leveling of social rights. the text provides for an increase in the retirement age of european workers and for the linking of this age to life expectancy. european workers, having paid for the bank bailouts and subjected to exhaustive austerity measures, are again forced to pay the consequences of a crisis, one they did not create, by working longer hours and receiving reduced pensions. the left group, in its alternative resolution, which unfortunately was not adopted, opposed the green paper on pensions and pointed out the possibility of improving pensions and retirement conditions for the benefit of workers. this is possible without raising the age limits but through increased labour rights, especially for young people, better wages and at the same time higher taxation on financial capital and financial transactions.
in writing. the european commission's green paper on 'european pension systems', which was voted on today with the report by the alliance of political representatives of the capital region in the european parliament (social democrats, people's party, liberals), is an anti-people monster. it is intended to be a component of the eu's new anti-people competitiveness pact aimed at demolishing european social security systems and replacing them with private personalised insurance, a new goldmine of exploitation of workers for the benefit of capital. the abolition of public expenditure on social security, pensions and welfare. with the three-pillar system, they reduce the pension benefits of public insurance schemes to a poorhouse allowance, to open wide the way to the so-called "third pillar", private insurance. they are calling for an increase in the retirement age in line with life expectancy, i.e. working until old age. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also called for the introduction of a european social security system. in the face of these developments, we point out that the need for a general workers' uprising is imperative in order to prevent the new anti-insurance measures, the new savage attack organized by capital and the bourgeois governments with the eu competitiveness pact under construction, from being passed.
madam president, the causes of the increasing volatility of food prices are many: extreme weather events, limited natural and energy resources, an increase in the world population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. commodity futures exchanges have been transformed by the deregulation of the money markets from a risk management tool to a speculative trading target. the most important of these are located outside europe. after the financial crisis, several hedge funds turned to agricultural commodity exchanges to offset their losses, where the financial reserve is now 15 times the real agricultural reserve. an institutional framework is therefore necessary to limit participation in agricultural derivatives markets to those directly linked to the food sector. i welcome the initiatives of the french g20 presidency in this regard and i firmly believe that the maintenance of a strong european agricultural sector to ensure food security requires the guarantee of fair agricultural income as well as more effective market regulation measures in the new cap.
in writing. the current high prices have a positive effect on some and a negative effect on others. they favour, for example, cereals producers in the eu but not animal products producers. they favour countries with available grain to export, but they lead to a stalemate and hunger for the population of developing countries, which depend on grain imports for their food. the final result may vary from region to region or even from producer to producer. this is because behind each category of losers and winners are problems in the functioning of the agri-food chain in the eu, the threat of climate change to food security, the dead ends of shallowness and inconsistency in production, trade and development choices. the eu must find realistic and balanced solutions, assessing the situation with calm and seriousness, and being aware of its role in international markets. the cap reform must contribute to this.
mr president, the revolutionary developments in tunisia and egypt are already forming a dynamic political domino in many countries of the muslim world. societies are rising up with demands and desires that have been suppressed for many decades. watch your step! nothing is over. it all starts now. new challenges and new prospects. the question is what europe is doing, what it can do, what it should do. not what he's done so far. it was essentially absent, without coherence, without reflexes. what will it do, for example, with the new wave of migration flows? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the developments in our wider neighbourhood are also becoming a measure of european foreign policy. will we succeed or fail? time is running out on us. lampedusa is calling us.
mr president, with the recent popular uprisings and all the others threatening the mediterranean periphery of africa, we must be more deeply concerned. we must see what the matrix of these revolts is; whether it's poverty, religion, injustice, corruption, lack of democracy and freedom; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us the information we need to know about the situation in the former yugoslavia, but i am sure that he has been able to give us the information we need to know about the situation in the former yugoslavia. i notice that we appear in this chamber to be considered the temple and the heart of full democracy. the first solution we give is money. but they had money and some cunning people were making it disappear! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their valuable comments and questions. i have very much appreciated today the opportunity to exchange views on the events in egypt and on the best response to them. i have heard a lot of constructive remarks and proposals and i will pass on your messages to the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. we will reflect together on how best to address these issues and we will keep them high on the priority list as our response to egypt develops. let me assure you that, through the ongoing review process, we will address comprehensively both important elements: firstly the transition and reform needs of the countries concerned, but also, secondly, the strategic reflection of these tremendous and historic transformations in our neighbourhood area and our neighbourhood policy. this house has an important role to play to play in that. the egyptians have proven their ability to take their future into their own hands. they ask for democracy, they ask for socio-economic reforms, and the european union must be able to lend its full support to the democratic reform process. as i have said, these are still early days, but the european union is fully mobilised to listen and react to the demands coming from the egyptians themselves.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the media law in hungary.
colleagues, for those of you who do not know the procedure, a blue card is at the discretion of the president. if i feel we do not have enough time for the debate then i do not give the floor. if i see later that we have cut down on speaking time then i may give the floor again. so, when you raise a blue card, unfortunately i cannot always give the floor to you. it will have to be at the discretion of myself and of the secretariat.
dear colleagues, what i said before may have caused some confusion. there will be no more blue card questions in this debate. we do not have the time. (interjection from mrs morvai: ‘shame on you!’) what a life!
mr szájer, i do not give a blue card question to people according to which political group they belong. i give them on the basis of who raised their blue card first. as it turns out, in this debate, the first blue cards were raised by certain people, but then the time ran out, so i said that for no-one – be they from the centre, right or left – would there be time for more blue card questions. there are the one-minute interventions, for which we probably will not be able to take everyone either. i wish there was the time. i wish there was the time for me to give everyone the floor, but i cannot. i apologise to you and the others, but i assure you that this was not a political choice.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as far as i am concerned the answer is a clear yes. the hungarian minister’s body language is also saying yes. that will be done as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, please appreciate that i do not have to use my body when i express myself. a couple of brief points on behalf of hungary: given the fact that commissioner kroes’ answer was extensive and exhaustive, and also concerned the composition of the media council, this was a specific question addressed to me which i think has been answered correctly, so i can limit myself to a couple of points. first and foremost, i would like to underline that hungary is fully committed to the values, principles and the rules enshrined in the treaty, in the charter of fundamental rights and in all other instruments of international law, be they european or universal, on human rights. the first harsh criticism of the media law was made prior to the adoption of the law. i make particular reference to the comments made by the osce media representative. my simple wish was for the text to be read, studied and analysed, and then for us to be told what could be wrong, what kind of doubts or concerns might arise with respect to the text, or indeed with respect to the interpretation of the implementation of the law. this was the reason why we immediately welcomed and supported the commission, being the guardian of the treaty, in its analysis of the text, and invited it to express its doubts or concerns. now that is exactly what happened. the commission scrutinised carefully the law, made some proposals and all these proposals were adopted. i can only confirm that the day after tomorrow there will be a cabinet meeting. we will adopt the text and we will submit it immediately to the hungarian parliament and the amendments will be adopted as soon as is procedurally possible and will immediately enter into force. i would like to thank the commission for its hard work, help and assistance, but i would also like to thank all of you who made fair and reasonable comments and assisted us in this exercise, which i am convinced has been extremely important, not only for ourselves, but also for the european union as a whole. i would just like to offer our help and full support to the working group the commission is about to establish. this is in the interests of europe as a whole and we all want to participate in it and to help it as much as we can. the only thing i regret is the excessive language which appeared in some of the political statements. as i said already before, the law would have been adopted. sometimes we had the feeling that we were being subjected to what the french call ‘un procès d'intention’, a kind of ‘schuldvermutung.’ i had the feeling that it was the presumption of guilt which was being applied instead of the presumption of innocence which is, of course, a basic rule of any fair trial. so sometimes these statements went beyond the limits of reasonable and fair political debate – a political debate which we otherwise fully support, both domestically and at a european or universal level. in fact, it was harmful to the interests of europe as a whole – it was harmful to european integration. now i believe that we are hopefully over that. i just would like to confirm again our full respect and to testify to this i would just like to let you know that it is our firm intention to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the new hungarian constitution. hungary will thus be the first country where the charter of fundamental rights will be an integral part of the hungarian legal system. it will be applicable not only in the areas covered by union law, but it will be at the top of the hierarchy of the overall legal system and it will prevail over any other legislation or regulation, be it criminal law, be it about the media or be it about any other subject. that should give an assurance to all of you that the basic rules, the basic values and the basic principles which we all share are, and will be, fully respected by my country.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutionssee minutestabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. η ψηφοφορία θα διεξαχθεί αύριο στις 12.00 το μεσημέρι. γραπτές δηλώσεις (άρθρο 149)
the next item is the recommendation by mr sturdy, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part (a7-0320/2010 - c7-0320/2010 - 2010/0075 (nle)) (a7-0034/2011)
president-in-office of the council. − first let me answer mr higgins’ question concerning the regulatory environment. this is really very important for the existence and working conditions of smes. applying the ‘think small first’ principle when preparing laws and policies is a cornerstone of the new framework we are trying to establish. this is important at all levels, not only at eu level, but − and i think you share my view − also at national, regional and municipality level. the commission has revised its state aid rules to encourage member states to direct more support for smes to key areas such as training, r&d and environmental protection and to overcome the current focus on large businesses. the agreement by member states to allow for the application of reduced vat rates for locally supplied services, including labour-intensive services such as hairdressing, catering and repair services, will further stimulate economic activity and create jobs, and the commission warmly welcomes this decision. in the area of better regulation, the commission has tabled important legislative initiatives already. it has adopted a proposal for revisiting the vat directive to remove barriers to electronic invoicing, with cost-saving potential amounting to billions of euros in the medium term. the commission also came forward in february with a proposal to allow member states to adopt less burdensome accounting requirements for micro-businesses, thus fulfilling its commitment in the action plan for small businesses. it has the capacity to reduce the burden by up to eur 6 billion. the commission encourages member states to reach an agreement as soon as possible to allow member states who wish to take advantage of this opportunity to do so, so we in the council definitely have to move along those lines. the commission will also carefully assess the likely burden of any new legislative proposals, not only for smes. we have quite a number of good proposals on the table, and in the competitiveness council we are following this item and trying to address as many of these issues as quickly as possible. turning to the second question, on improving access to finance, even in my introductory remark i tried to make a reference to that. to loosen the supply of much-needed credit, the eib lent eur 1 billion to smes in 2008, an increase of 60% compared to 2007. the aim is to lend more money on these issues later on. i remember very well that, when i was still an mep, i was responsible for an opinion on the eib. in my opinion for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i made an evaluation. i have to tell you that the eib reacted very quickly to the changed circumstances and reorganised its priorities. so we welcomed those moves by the eib. i agree with you that sometimes money does not get to the intended recipients, and there should be better organisation. my view on that is that we really have to pay attention to the counterparts of the eib in the member states, because in most cases they are the partners. we should not always blame the eib for the implementation, which is not directly done by the eib. so i agree, on the second question, that it is extremely important that community money and eib loans get to the intended recipients, that is, the small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe the council cannot give opinions on written declarations, so if you do not mind, mr president, i will not comment.
the president of the council. - i would like to answer mr georgios papanikolaou's question on water resources. this is a subject of particular importance for the presidency trio, spain, belgium and hungary. it was an important element of the joint programme that we drew up more than two years ago, and each country, during its six-month presidency, contributed to the implementation of the joint programme's integrated approach to water policy. we are therefore continuing the work started by the spanish and the belgians and we would like to contribute by presenting conclusions on water policy at the council meeting in june 2011. these conclusions will address three main themes. the first is the integrated management of extreme water phenomena such as floods, water shortages, inland waterways, irregular rainfall distribution. the second theme is the role of water as an ecological service. that's a very exciting question. i think we talk too little about it these days. we take for granted that we have water, we use the so-called ecological services that aquatic life provides us, and we should really appreciate them. the third theme is to increase cooperation in water management, both at international level and between eu member states. the council conclusions are intended to contribute to the european commission's communication on a vision for european waters, which is planned to be adopted in 2012 and which will highlight the importance of sustainable management of the eu member states' water resources and the security of water resources and drinking water supplies. finally, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the hungarian presidency will also organise water conferences and events, such as the conference on the future of europe's freshwater resources, which will be held in budapest from 23 to 25 march, in conjunction with the informal meeting of environment ministers. and one last note. the hungarian presidency's priority objective is to have a danube strategy for the union, and here too, of course, water, drinking water protection and an integrated water policy are of particular importance.
mr president, mr minister, thank you very much for your reply. in conclusion, i would remind you that in 2007 the commission in its communication 'addressing the problem of water scarcity and drought in the european union' indicated that it considered it possible for the european union to contribute resources to the creation of additional water supply infrastructure. i would also remind you that many isolated areas in europe, especially small island areas in the south, such as the aegean islands, face serious problems with water supply and drinking water, while methods such as desalination are very expensive. so the question is clear: do you intend to promote the discussion of direct community support for water supply schemes in remote areas and do you see this as a positive idea?
the president of the council. - thank you for the supplementary questions. the first question raised by ms blinkevičiūtė concerns developments in the anti-discrimination directive. i mean, i could tell you that we're gonna figure this out, because it would cost me to say it, but i'm not gonna say it. we all know how bitterly this bill has been treated over the past three years. of course, our plans include making progress. in order to do this and to remain credible, we are trying to concentrate on the disability part of this directive. so we are planning two rounds of discussions on disability issues, and we hope that we can persuade the member states to at least make progress on this. so instead of shooting all over the place, we want to focus on this issue. i have to tell you, this is very difficult. member states often refer to financial issues and financial difficulties. in my own country, we had to ask the previous government for a delay to implement eu and domestic policies, such as accessibility, and in times of crisis and austerity, this is difficult for member states. but i think, and especially since we are committed to a people-centred presidency, that it is absolutely necessary that in this extremely important issue, as mr kosa always says, it does not only concern disabled people, but also many, many more people, from young mothers to the elderly, than those we call disabled, so that it is indeed the responsibility of the council to make progress on this issue. mr kosaka, how can we involve parliament more or how can we work together? i believe that the honourable member is doing an excellent job as chairman of the intergroup on disability and has very good relations not only with the council and the presidency but also with the commission. and as we see in many matters, if parliament is guiding, as i am convinced that it is in the case of the disabled, then the commission and the council have no choice but to follow. so yes, they can incorporate it into their proposals to the commission which then go to the council. we are thinking about the roma strategy, and there is a good chance that the report by mrs járóka lívia, which was adopted in the libe committee on monday, will be incorporated into the commission's proposal and then be submitted to the council. so i would suggest that this is the path, and this is the excellent partnership that i would like to see continue. we will send answers in written form to the questions we had no time to answer.
mr president, i do not ask for a debate on the question i have put. i appreciate the effort you're making, and i don't want to upset the order. just one observation that does not concern or affect the president specifically, and i'll be brief. i would like to say that because we have a problem with the question of parliamentary control - you know this very well - there have been three occasions in the plenary when we have not had questions to the council and the procedures at the end have the effect of shortening the time. so please discuss in the bureau how this time will be protected. thank you so much for your efforts. i do not want to run out of time or have my question discussed and i thank the minister for being ready.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr kalfin, on his excellent report. there is no doubt that the current economic crisis has further highlighted the important role of the european investment bank in the european union. the eib's role is also important, though less well known outside the union's borders, in supporting the european union's external actions through the external mandate we are discussing today. the proposals contained in the report, firstly to increase transparency, secondly to introduce a flexibility clause for possible redistribution of regional resources, thirdly to align the eib's activities with the external policy of the european union, fourthly to extend the eligible countries and fifthly to increase the financing ceiling, are positive, very useful, necessary and necessary proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank is a good one, but it is not enough to make the european investment bank more efficient.
in writing. i voted against the report on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries mainly because a very negative amendment by the epp was voted in which an important point in the original resolution was altered. in particular, this change removes from the resolution the concern that the world bank includes nuclear energy among the 'clean forms' of energy. the resolution thus accepts the use of nuclear energy as a solution to reduce carbon emissions. in conclusion, nuclear energy is not only acceptable but is also proposed and promoted as a 'clean' form of energy to tackle climate change and reduce carbon emissions. but the promotion of nuclear energy is in direct conflict with the demand for a world free of nuclear weapons, whether used for war or for "peaceful" purposes.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the europe 2020 strategy. the europe 2020 strategy is the continuation of the failed lisbon strategy and fails to answer questions such as recovery from the crisis and job creation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the eu's socioeconomic governance needs an alternative policy that rejects any "competitiveness by", and contributes to genuine economic convergence of the member states. it is urgent that the european union should pursue strategies which promote values such as solidarity, social justice, gender equality and a genuine effort to combat poverty. together with other members of the left group, we tabled an alternative resolution outlining the necessary and necessary measures and tools for a europe which aims at economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development with full employment and rights for its workers.
in writing. the first signs of the implementation of the eu strategy for the current decade are not particularly encouraging, as the lisbon strategy was not encouraging. economic developments in the euro area and the problems of monetary union brought to the surface by the debt crisis in the region make it clear that the europe 2020 strategy must focus on fiscal stability, growth policies and the need for european economic governance if its ambitious targets, such as raising youth employment to 75% and increasing investment in research to 3%, are not to remain mere emblematic proclamations. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the european union's future, which is based on the european council's conclusions on the future of the union.
in writing. i voted against the beres report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the report proposes to confirm for 2011 the validity of the integrated economic policy and the member states' employment guidelines adopted for 2010, and consequently to fully integrate the europe 2020 strategy into the national reform programmes. the report unfortunately calls for the same economic policies and guidelines to be followed for employment as those which led to the crisis and the failure to deal with it. it calls for the same policy choices and practices to be followed that have led europeans to be subjected to austerity measures and sovereign member states to be prey to the mafia of speculators. it also called for the continuation of employment policies which have resulted in the working age, policies which have increased unemployment and underemployment, which promote flexible forms of work and which attack the wages, pensions and rights of european workers and particularly affect young people.
in writing. the popular uprisings in tunisia and egypt, as well as the large protests in a number of other countries, directly challenge poverty and destitution. the demonstrations of anger by the people living below the poverty line highlight the impasse of the forces of capital and its political representatives in the face of the generalized economic crisis and their attempt to place it on the backs of the working people. the fao itself pointed out just a few years ago that the number of people who have difficulty or are unable to obtain the food they need to survive is greater than ever in the history of mankind. the european union is the world's largest economy, with a population of over 1 billion, and this is bound to provoke strong social reactions. the problem of poverty and poverty in the world is not a problem of lack of resources but the result of imperialist aggression and capitalist over-exploitation of natural resources with profit as the sole criterion. food price increases not only did not stop after the 2007 food crisis, but continued even more strongly. in the context of the economic crisis, the stock market gamble on the backs of agricultural production and human hunger is a way out of over-accumulation of capital and the maintenance of its profitability. in 2010, agricultural products were the biggest contributor to stock market gains.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the increase in food prices. the resolution contains a number of positive points, such as the priority given to the rural sector in development policy. the joint resolution, however, lacks important points which were contained in the resolution originally proposed by the left group. in particular, there is no link between the food crisis and the rise in prices and the agricultural and trade policies in force and, therefore, no proposal to change this framework. the resolution also calls for a solution to the food problem from the world trade organization and the g20, which is not only contrary to the demands of farmers but also replaces the un framework, thus promoting decision-making by those who create and perpetuate the problem with their policy choices. the resolution also makes no reference to the basic concept of food sovereignty, which is a necessary condition for food security. finally, it treats the problem of speculation and food price increases very inadequately, as it only refers to 'transparency' in food prices and not to how to end the financial instruments by which speculation is allowed and created.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on food prices. as a global power in agricultural production, the eu must take account of and adapt effectively to emerging challenges such as extreme weather events, limited availability of natural resources, dependence on food imports and growing speculation in food staples. the food crisis is also present in europe. 79 million europeans, or about 16% of the eu's population, receive food aid, while prices for basic products are rising steadily, a fact which, combined with the recession, has become particularly acute in greece. it is clear that europe today must produce more using less and more efficiently its resources.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, let me first of all thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the political group leaders for their constructive contribution to the discussions and their efforts to reach agreement on this very important report. the european parliament's own-initiative report on innovative financing instruments could not come at a more opportune time. the crisis that is testing, as we all know, especially today the euro area, has led to a significant reduction in public resources, to extensive austerity and fiscal consolidation programmes by the majority of member states and, at the same time, is creating enormous pressures on the community budget itself, and we have seen this very recently in the debate on the new budgetary framework. a basic and commonly accepted conclusion emerges from the description of this situation. the european citizens are the ones who bear the brunt of the crisis, with the shrinking of their incomes, unemployment, the insecurity of their employment relationships and the reduction of their social rights. the second key and commonly accepted conclusion that emerges from this situation is that the union and the member states urgently need new resources to contribute to the faster recovery and growth of the european economy, this time in a balanced way that reduces inequalities and divergences. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we need new resources and we agree - as the report expressly states - and i read the relevant paragraph: further increase in the size and scope of current tax tools, as well as further cuts in public spending, are neither an adequate nor a viable solution to the major challenges facing us at european and global level. innovative financial instruments can play a key role in addressing these challenges, as they can make a decisive contribution to generating significant new revenue for national budgets and the community budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. innovation in finance is not just about finding new resources; it is equally important to pave the way for a gradual change in the current tax model, where the main burden of taxation and more generally of financing the economy has traditionally been borne by sectors such as labour, enterprises and productive investment. the important added value of innovative financial instruments, the double benefit, as we say, is that in addition to revenue they can also have a strong regulatory role: to discourage practices and behaviours that are harmful, whether we are talking about the financial sector or the environment and its protection. the report covers four main thematic areas: taxation of the financial sector, eurobonds and european investment bonds, carbon taxation and financing for development objectives. as regards taxation of the financial sector, we start again from a basic and commonly accepted assumption: that the financial sector, although it has the main responsibility for the crisis, although it has created and continues to create, despite the crisis, surpluses, is taxed as it is almost universally exempt from value added tax. a second also commonly accepted assumption that comes simply from looking at the numbers, the facts, of how the volume of financial transactions has evolved and grown over the last decade, is its great and ever-expanding divergence from its core role of financing the real economy. these two assumptions are widely accepted by parliament, but also by the european commission through its recent communication on taxation of the financial sector. so we are dealing with a clear injustice which must be rectified, and we must send a strong message to the european citizens that we have indeed learned from the crisis, that we are seeking the fairest possible burden-sharing, and that we are determined to take all the necessary measures at the global and european level to restore the financial sector to its essential role of financing the real economy. there is a broad consensus that the most appropriate tax instrument to achieve these objectives is the financial transaction tax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on the value of goods and services, and that the tax is not imposed on the value of goods and services. as we all agreed in paragraph 13, 'a financial transaction tax can help to curb the most harmful practices in trade, such as short-term and high-frequency trading, and to curb speculation'. it is obvious that the first choice for all of us is to introduce this tax on a global scale. but it is equally obvious that, despite initial ambitious statements, the chances of a global agreement are being reduced rather than increased. the question is what are we in europe doing, hiding behind the lack of global agreement? is this enough and, more importantly, is it convincing for our citizens who are bearing the brunt of the crisis? even if it is not easy to proceed directly to the introduction of a financial transaction tax at european level, because it is not easy to reach a unanimous decision in the council, the european parliament, as the only european institution directly elected by european citizens, has an obligation to send a clear political message in this direction. it is our responsibility to send a strong political message, not the european commission's. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the report of mrs podimata is very well balanced and very well explained, and we should all welcome the four financial means introduced by the report tomorrow. the four measures are all innovative and i should say that we should not confine the debate only to the financial transaction tax. we should be careful in choosing which ones will be implemented; we should exclude tax on sectors such as the energy sector which have a multiplying effect on living costs. thus for the final phase of the issue the commission should conduct an evaluation through an impact assessment of the efficiency and potential results of the use of these instruments.
mr president, mrs podematias report contains interesting ideas - old and new - but particularly timely at this time because of the challenges we face in the euro area and in the european union more broadly for stability and growth. i would like to point out one particularly positive measure, namely that of the eurobond. i wanted to focus on the issue of taxation of financial transactions, which i welcome, even at european level, as the amendment i have co-signed says, despite its difficulty and complexity, as all the relevant studies show, in terms of its collection and its effectiveness if it is applied only at european rather than international level. but beyond these technical specificities, we are particularly concerned about its possible impact on the competitiveness of the european economy, a prerequisite for our development which is also apparent from the attempt to apply the competitiveness pact within the framework of economic governance under tough and binding conditions. we are therefore concerned about the impact such a tax may have on the turnover of fast-moving financial services, the lack of liquidity that our market so badly needs at this time and the cost to investors and taxpayers. the commission's proposal is therefore a very important one. the other thing that concerns us is that nowhere is it specified where these resources will go. we are not in favour of a tax for the sake of a tax, we have no dogma about taxes. the question is the result: i would be very positive, and my proposal is open to negotiation, with a tax going to the community budget or the support mechanism.
mr president, i do not say thank you, nor do i give thanks to annie podimat. i say a very big one, because at a time when the euro is seriously ill, it is taking on the burden of bringing to the european parliament an own-initiative report proposing a cure. the remedy he proposes, among other things, is a tax on financial transactions. i hear a lot of "no's": some are classy, some come straight. but i do not hear any alternative and i think we all want to defend the european union and the euro. i'm also asking for a study: but when i hear study proposals, i know in advance that the answer is "no" and we're just buying time. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. do something immediately and, closing the process of "catch the eye", i say to you: "catch the tax".
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first of all to thank you for this very interesting debate. opinions are divided on the question as to whether the eu should envisage introducing a financial transaction tax at eu level as a first step. the figures that are circulating might appear attractive. however, i am convinced that we should first evaluate the risk of relocation and the consequences of such a tax for european competiveness. as you know, financial transactions are easily relocated outside the eu. previous examples such as in sweden have shown that the introduction of ftt at local level could harm legitimate businesses and erode the tax base to a large extent. this was very clearly illustrated by mr schmidt and mr hökmark. as i said in my introductory speech, i would encourage you to wait for the results of the impact assessment in order to define a well-founded position in this area. i can assure you that this impact assessment will be conducted very thoroughly. you know that in february we launched a public consultation on this subject. at the end of march we will have the brussels tax forum, which will be completely dedicated to the issue of financial sector taxation. we are working in close cooperation with academia and the imf on this subject, which i would like to see analysed very seriously in order to make decisions based on solid foundations. the issues at stake are very important, and many of them were raised during this discussion, such as the impact on high-frequency trading. we also have to analyse tax incidence. some of you raised the question of who will pay the tax. there is no obvious answer here. we also have to analyse the cost of administration; we have to analyse tax bases and many other issues which have to be taken into account in order to make a final decision. so i would like to ask you to wait until the commission has finalised this impact assessment. we have committed ourselves to doing this by the summer break. otherwise, i welcome the report which globally supports the actions of the commission in innovative financing, in particular in the area of carbon tax, euro project bonds and development financing. once again i would like to thank mrs podimata for her excellent report, and i wish you good voting tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is a global tax or a european tax. · i think it is the wrong question, or rather i fear it is a question asked by those who do not want the tax at either european or global level, because we all know that it is impossible to reach a global agreement unless someone takes the first step. the union, which has the largest financial market in the world, must therefore take the first step if it is to be credible and effective in its efforts to reach a global agreement. the second point: impact assessment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, commissioner, i will not agree with you that you have asked us, begged us now and in your opening speech, to do nothing, to take no position unless there is, unless the european commission's impact study is made public. i am also afraid that your statement a moment ago is as if you had already taken a position, despite the fact that there has been no impact study, despite the fact that we should not proceed with a financial transaction tax at european level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but let us not hide behind the impact study and let us not lose sight of our role and our responsibilities at a time when we are fighting to defend the community method, that is to say our involvement and role as a european parliament in decision-making. the political decision whether or not we want a european tax is up to us and the council, and this was reminded of last week by the german chancellor, angela merkel. so let us not fall behind in this development either. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march 2011 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr crescenzio rivellini, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain provisions relating to fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement (com (2009) 477 - c7-0204/2009 - 2009/0129 (cod)) (a7-0023/2011).
(referring to the fact that mr rivellini had been allowed to speak for longer than his allocated speaking time) mr rivellini, i fully expect that you will put up a big picture of me in your office. i can send you one – and i can sign it too – in thanks for what happened today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would not put up a picture of you, so i will have to be brief. first of all, i would like to thank mr rivellini for his work on this report. i am very pleased to see the very strong support of the fisheries committee and the support of parliament on the substance of this important proposal. i can easily agree with mr rivellini’s comprehensive presentation and also with the fact that the implementation of the various measures adopted by the gfcm is key to ensuring the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean. we have to do this because the mediterranean really needs it. we have to do it if we want to ensure biodiversity in the mediterranean and make sure that it does not turn into a dead sea. let me refer to just one institutional issue, to which mr rivellini also referred. as you know, the recommendations of the gfcm become binding on the european union and, in accordance with the treaty, on the member states from the date determined by the gfcm. timely transposition is therefore necessary in order to make these international measures directly applicable to natural or legal persons at eu level and to ensure legal certainty to that effect. we need to avoid the transposition of the gfcm measures becoming a modern version of the myth of sisyphus. transpositions of measures adopted by the gfcm in recent years are already awaiting the adoption of this regulation. but very soon the gfcm will most probably adopt new amendments requiring effective transposition to eu law within a fixed deadline. so we will go through this exercise again and again. this is why i believe that the commission should have delegated powers for transposing all future amendments into eu law. i am very concerned that the limitation of delegated powers to the commission will be followed by a higher risk of having no timely transposition. this is something we have to avoid. it is not a way of avoiding the competence of the european parliament on these issues, but we need timely transposition. i am afraid that this will not be possible through this procedure. i therefore regret that the institutions cannot agree on this important question. i would like to underline that such delays would compromise the eu’s ability to comply with its international obligations and would also undermine the eu’s credibility in our international fisheries organisations. however, i believe that we need to proceed towards adoption of this regulation quickly, and i therefore welcome the position taken by the european parliament as a step in the right direction. i hope that further, similar steps will allow us to unblock negotiations on the proposal and proceed with its adoption. at the same time it is necessary to continue to reflect on the most effective ways to transpose measures introduced by regional fisheries management organisations into eu law. from our side, we will continue to look for better solutions, and i invite you to join our efforts. i would once again like to thank mr rivellini for the report and the committee for its efforts regarding this important issue.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner damannakis, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean represents a very small part of our planet, only about 1% of the marine area, but it is very rich, it has 8% to 9% of marine biodiversity. 50% of europe's fishing vessels are in the mediterranean, 60% of work and employment in fishing takes place in the mediterranean, but unfortunately 54% of catches are overfished and 32% to 36% of catches are outside biological limits. what's wrong with it? the failure of the common fisheries policy to date, the failure to implement our common decisions, and above all the decisions we take without respect for scientific data, decisions we take in the name of ill-conceived national interests. in 2006, the commission tried to redress the problems of the mediterranean. we have had the regulation on fisheries in the mediterranean, but the problems do not stop with what we, the countries of the european union, are doing. the mediterranean fisheries and the future of fisheries depend on what all the mediterranean countries, inside and outside the european union, do with this common wealth of ours, and if we do not act together, this wealth is in immediate danger. we have now gone through the first reading of this report and i am sorry to see that the council, which is not here today, has been obsessed with the question of implementing measures. the council must understand that the lisbon treaty must be applied and it must accept the right of parliament to participate in these decisions and to adopt the delegated acts.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mrs fraga estévez, the chair of the committee on fisheries, for this oral question and to say that i very much welcome the involvement of parliament in these procedures. i also share her concerns in general. we will do our best in order to achieve the best results. let me tell you a little about the current fisheries agreement with mauritania. this agreement aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries stocks. we also want to prevent and combat illegal fishing and promote the development of port infrastructures and the protection of the marine environment. through this agreement, fishing opportunities have been reduced, and the fees to be paid by ship owners for licences and per tonne caught have been considerably increased. difficulties remain, and we are looking into how to address them in the best possible way. i agree with mrs fraga on this matter. the agreement with mauritania has become the most important in financial terms – it is the most important of our agreements. given this development, the commission is considering the introduction of a strong element of conditionality related to the sectoral support in the new protocol. this will happen through, inter alia, the decoupling of the access rights payments and the payments for sectoral support. we are going to decouple this. this will enable us to react more effectively to problems in the implementation of sectoral support and at the same time to secure the access payment and thus the fishing activities of eu vessels, because we would not like to disrupt the fishing activities of eu vessels. regarding sectoral support, the execution rate was very high in 2008 and 2009. 2010, on the other hand, marked a very low level of implementation of the sectoral policy funds by mauritania – only 52%. this was mainly due to the high retention rate of relevant funds for the mauritanian ministry of finance. last year, in agreement with the mauritania side, the commission took the decision to split the payment of the sectoral support into two tranches. the commission also retained eur 9 million out of a total of eur 18 million – half of the total – until a higher absorption was reached. moreover, with the aim of addressing all these deficiencies, a new mechanism, a trust account – the cas – was introduced as a temporary measure. the cas will become operational during the first semester of 2011. the establishment of this new special account will contribute towards guaranteeing that the funds allocated go directly to the sectoral support. this is what we want. the new protocol after 1 august 2012 will take into account the forthcoming cas reform. in this connection, the negotiating mandate includes a ‘human rights and democratic principles’ clause for the first time. we hope that the council will adopt this new mandate next week. as for the fight against iuu fishing, since the entry into force of our new regulation the commission has cooperated closely with the mauritanian control authorities. we are trying to ensure appropriate information of the conservation and management measures pursuant to that regulation. lastly, investments by the eu fishing sector are made in line with the mauritania action plan. this plan aims at facilitating the establishment of european private enterprises and joint enterprises between mauritanian and european operators and identifying the most appropriate forms of private-public partnership.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner damannakis, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist motion for a resolution on mauritania is designed to fill a gap. the european parliament has a clear role to play since the treaty of lisbon, a role of co-decision in european affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but this role of parliament cannot be fulfilled if we do not have timely and complete information, if we do not have timely and complete participation in the negotiations and if these agreements are not transmitted to parliament before their period of application begins. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament is called upon to ratify agreements which have been in force for over a year, it is not officially informed of the progress of the negotiations and it has recently had difficulty in accessing texts on the impact assessment, progress and implementation of previous agreements. we need to change a great deal in our fisheries agreements. we must fish where there is a surplus of fish, we must apply the precautionary principle, we must tackle illegal and unregulated fishing in practice, and agreements must also have development benefits for the countries with which they are concluded. in particular, mauritania has a major problem both because of illegal fishing and because of the misuse of gear. the role and intervention of parliament will be to promote better agreements in general, but they must be implemented correctly, as in the case of mauritania.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission and the rest of the support mechanism in greece recently announced a government commitment to raise €50 billion from the sale of public property by 2015. the commission's representative, mr derouz, said that the real stake of the greek economy was the total privatization of public property. but public property in greece is not all the same: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the form of a comprehensive environmental policy, and that the environment is protected in the form of a comprehensive environmental policy. critical environmental protection areas such as the nestos delta, where thousands of hectares have already been declared tourist facilities, are also threatened. such changes in uses that sacrifice vital environmental functions are the opposite of any definition of sustainable development. the crisis and debt do not negate the right of future generations to a vital natural environment and opportunities for sustainable cities.
mr president, i would like to speak on the libyan issue. the revolt in that country, which follows tunisia and egypt, is bloodier and is developing dramatically. on the surface, popular reactions against the regime are spontaneous and ideologically unbridled. they are directed against a regime with a clear inability to solve chronic problems of development and basic social justice. europe has a great interest in the region, mr president. dozens of european companies, british, italian, french and many large greek companies are active in libya, which is the third largest oil producer in africa. the volatility is scaring the markets and already oil prices have gone through the roof. i believe that, in the present circumstances, europe must pay particular attention to the increase in the number of refugees, not only from libya but from all over north africa, and to the consequences of the collapse of all european budgets and the worsening of the economic crisis. in addition, mr president, we must assess the causes and take action on what is happening in europe, in particular giving jobs and prospects to young people, because young people in the countries of the islamic arc had no hope and that is why they did what they did and we shall see what happens here.
mr president, commissioner, a few hours ago moody's once again downgraded the greek economy. i come from the official opposition party in greece and i must tell you that we are strongly critical of the government's economic policy. but this moody's decision is completely unjustified. it comes just one day before the auction of the half-yearly government bonds, which is very crucial for greece and a few days before the crucial european council meetings on 11 and 25 march, where very serious decisions will be taken. mr president, it is not only greece that is suffering from these arbitrary ratings of the rating agencies. it is necessary to regulate the operation of these rating agencies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the month of march is a very crucial month for the euro area and for the european union as a whole. a failure would be a major problem for the union. the failure of the markets will make it a catastrophe and we must prevent it, there is no time to delay.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, at a time when the union is considering the future of the cap, it is even more essential to ensure that there is coherence between agricultural policy and external trade policy. the european agricultural sector is being asked to contribute increasingly to the production of public goods through strict standards of safety and quality, environmental protection and animal welfare. it is therefore logical that imports of agricultural products should provide the same guarantees. the union has long been, and to some extent still is, on the defensive in the wto negotiations on agriculture. however, some misconceptions which do not take account of the radical revision of the cap should be mentioned. the union has drastically reduced trade-distorting aid, in contrast to other major partners. it has also unilaterally drastically reduced export refunds, while competing trading partners continue to make extensive use of other forms of export incentives. the union is also the world's largest importer of commercial products from developing countries. the union has already made an extremely generous offer in the agricultural negotiations, which has not, however, been matched by an equivalent level of ambition by other developed and advanced developing countries. at the same time, the commission is conducting bilateral and interregional negotiations with a large number of trading partners. the impact on the european agricultural sector of all the individual agricultural concessions, alongside the pending agricultural negotiations, is of particular concern to us. in this context, commissioner, we call on the commission to preserve the multifunctional nature of the union's agriculture and the european model of agri-food products, which is a strategic component of the european economy. we would point out that concessions to agriculture can in no way be the currency of exchange for increased access to the markets for industrial products and services. in any event, we stress the need for an impact assessment prior to the opening of negotiations and in any event before the exchange of offers. the commission is also called upon to promote the competitive interests of the european agricultural sector and the competitive advantage of the union's high quality agri-food products. in particular, to ensure that our partners protect geographical indications more effectively both in the framework of bilateral trade agreements and in the framework of the acp-eu and wto agreements. in conclusion, agriculture is not just an economic activity. it supplies public goods of major importance to society as a whole whose supply cannot be secured through markets. the main challenge therefore lies in the effective combination of commercial and non-commercial parameters. the economic geography of the cap therefore, ladies and gentlemen, makes it imperative to ensure greater coherence between the agricultural policy and the union's external trade policy, between the internal aspects of the common agricultural policy and the external aspects of the agricultural policy, or, if you like, between what we call in foro interno and in foro externo, that is to say, the union's presence on the world trade scene in both its bilateral and multilateral aspects.
in writing. today we are faced with yet another attempt to violate the proportionate, risk-based and scientifically sound approach to the sensitive and public health issue of tobacco regulation. the brazilian government is pushing for legislation to ban completely the manufacture and sale of cigarettes containing ingredients, i.e. cigarettes made by mixing different types of tobacco (blended cigarettes). the legislation is being promoted without providing evidence that these cigarettes are more attractive to young people than virginia cigarettes. such a development would harm producers and exports of eu-produced oriental and burley cigarettes, while neutralizing competition for cigarettes and virginia tobacco, of which brazil is the world's largest producer and exporter. the european commission is therefore invited to raise this concern about brazil's intentions at the next meeting of the wto committee on technical barriers to trade on 24-25 march 2011.
i declare the 2011-2012 session of the european parliament open.
ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you. today is march 8th, international women's day. parliament has many events planned. it is an opportunity for us to celebrate the 100th anniversary of this anniversary and to express our thoughts on what women have achieved and the road that still lies ahead.
our session is now in session. the first item on the agenda is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2012 budget, section i european parliament, section ii council, section iv court of justice, section v court of auditors, section vi european economic and social committee, section vii committee of the regions, section viii european ombudsman, section ix european data protection supervisor, section x european external action service [2011/2017bud] (a7-0049/2011)
i would like to reply to mrs hohlmeier's remark: mr pittella, the vice-president responsible for the budget, is in the chamber and is following the debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2011 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the topical debate on women in the european union, with the report by mrs mariya nedelcheva, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union - 2010 (2010/2138 (ini)) (a7-0029/2011) and the report by mrs rovana plumb, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women's poverty in the european union (2010/2162 (ini)) (a7-0031/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, it is nice that on the 100th anniversary of international women’s day this house is guided by a woman. i think that is very symbolic and it is also very symbolic that we can, during this day, debate these very important issues on the agenda – thanks to the rapporteur, marija nedelcheva – which shows a great support for the commission’s work towards gender equality and focuses on important issues that the commission has emphasised and will continue to emphasise. one hundred years of struggle and we still do not see the end of it. i regret that because i always hope that we can eliminate, if you like, the yearly celebration of the struggle of women but as long as we have not arrived there we cannot do so, and we have not arrived there yet. parliament’s report shows very clearly what the gaps are. the gaps are in poverty: we have heard the second report on this too. on poverty, women are leading so there is not a gap in this sense, but what are we doing – and my colleague, lászlo andor will answer this – to get women out of the poverty trap? the second element is women in the world of employment. there are still some problems concerning the balance between family life and professional life. there is the problem of the pay gap where women still earn 17% less on average than men – and you might have seen that on 5 march we had the european gender pay gap day with measurements to see how much more women have to work than men in order to reach the same level of pay. the fact is that we were, in effect, not paid until 5 march; we had to work until then without being paid. only from 5 march on did we start to be paid. i hope that one day the gender pay gap day will be on 1 january– which would mean that there would be equal pay at that moment. the political commitment of the european commission is contained in our new strategy. the themes which are mentioned in our strategy for gender equality are the same as the ones the rapporteur has mentioned: economic independence for women, gender pay gap, violence against women and promoting gender equality in external actions. to start with external actions, you might have seen cathy ashton and myself on 8 march speaking to women outside of europe and saluting the courage of all those women who are fighting to survive and who are fighting for the establishment of a democracy; we need to make it clear that we are standing by their side. speaking about all these upheavals, speaking about the wars and speaking about the genocides, which unfortunately continue to go on, you all know that women are in the front row. women and children are the most vulnerable in our societies but also in the societies outside, and that is why the commission is working to streamline its various policy initiatives on violence against women and to create synergies between areas with similar objectives. so this us where we are in developing a coherent policy response to tackle this huge problem: my link is concrete actions in areas where there are clear legal bases in order to have efficiency, and in this regard i am going to present a victims’ rights package in may this year in which legislation to help women and children will, of course, be very high on the agenda. maybe i should finish with a theme which has been high on the agenda in these last few days. you know that on 1 march i brought the ceos of large european listed companies around a table to tell them that we do not agree anymore with the 90% quota for men on boards of directors – because that is what is happening. there is only one woman for ten men on boards, which means a 90% de facto quota for men. so we think that this should be tackled, mainly because all the economic evidence and the scientific evidence on economic functioning shows very clearly that companies with an balanced decision-making structure have a higher return on investment and make more profits than companies with solely male decision-making structures. so women mean business; it is in the interests of economic development that women take more responsibility. here i have challenged publicly listed companies in europe to sign a ‘women on the board pledge for europe’ by march 2012: to pledge to replace outgoing gentlemen on the board by qualified women – and there are so many that it should not be difficult to find these women. we are going to see, to observe, to analyse and to count what is happening between today and 8 march next year, and if nothing changes then i am prepared to take action at eu level to redress the gender balance in corporate board rooms. (applause)
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
madam president, i want to say something different: today for me is not a day of celebration, it is a day of remembrance for the women victims of the revolution that took place in america, not 100 years ago, but 157 years ago. we must not forget that either. to move forward, we need three basic things: - the first is support structures for working women: kindergartens, day nurseries; - the second is, commissioner andor, the financial support of women; and - the third is to change the perception in schools and here, commissioner reding, i propose that there be a quota and not just in the administrative boards, where it is as if we are taking care to repair the house of bricks, but that there be a quota for the nursery and teachers that exist within the schools so that we can experience gender equality. in conclusion, madam president, i would ask you, as a woman president, to bypass the rules and give the floor to the other ten speakers for this special women's day ceremony.
madam president, i consider today to be a very important day, the day of the woman, the woman we love, the woman we respect, the woman who is our mother, our wife, our sister, our daughter, the working woman and the housewife. i would like to thank all the women and i would like to stress that i personally support the struggle of women for equality in society, equal pay for work, quotas in positions of responsibility and i reject all forms of violence or exploitation of women. i will say no more, all have said it, thank you ladies, whoever is present or not present at this meeting.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy, which is the subject of a proposal from the european parliament, is a very important one. we put the matter to the vote yesterday and are awaiting the answer so that we can reach a compromise and send a positive message to the community institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs schaldemose's motion for a resolution because it is a serious and topical matter. it is essential to improve the existing mechanisms for general product safety, as this will help to ensure a high level of protection of health and safety of consumers. i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of controls on imports of certain products from third countries, which is not yet in force. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the member states are able to use them to the full.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the eu. in many cases, including in greece, the vigilance of the institutions and the state was reached the moment the publicity of the subject was limited. and while the discussion of influenza has died down, the virus not only still exists but is proving more deadly than ever. for example, in greece there has been a recent surge in both disease and deaths from it with losses exceeding 100 human lives and the main cause is lack of information as vulnerable groups, such as chronic sufferers who should have been vaccinated, do not do so considering that the risk is no longer present.
in writing. the european community and greece are contracting parties to the general fisheries committee for the mediterranean. the proposals for regulations concerning certain provisions on fisheries in the gfcm agreement area are intended to transpose into a single community legislative act certain proposals adopted by the gfcm and already applied in the countries which have acceded to it. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the proposals for control measures will protect the natural environment and will therefore benefit the parties to the gats.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on innovative finance at global and european level. the financial and debt crises have exposed the gaps in the functioning and control of the financial sector today. the introduction of a tax on global financial changes is not a new proposal, and it is certainly not popular in all developed countries, especially those with low taxation policies. however, if a global agreement is not possible, the introduction of a financial transaction tax in the eu, if it does not harm its competitiveness, would contribute to the better functioning of the sector while at the same time safeguarding significant public resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the report is a mockery of the working class and the popular strata, who are groaning under the barbaric war waged against them by capital and its political staff. it makes clear from the outset that there is no question of taxation of capital: it stresses that an increase in the rates and scope of existing tax instruments... cannot be a sufficient or viable solution. but to deceive workers, they are calling for the eu to introduce a 'financial transaction tax' of 0.01%, presented as an alleged 'equitable distribution of the burdens of the crisis' to capital and workers and an attempt to curb capital speculation. at the same time they raise direct taxation on the poorest layers of the people, they shoot up indirect taxation that brutally hits the working people's income. the financial transaction tax is not a tax on the financial sector but is another indirect tax. in addition to this new indirect tax, a whole series of measures are proposed, which are supposedly 'innovative financing' measures, new levers on the popular income: a carbon tax, a solidarity contribution to airline tickets, and even a global lottery, a global lottery to fight hunger! the kke voted against the report, stressing that there is no popular way out of the capitalist crisis without a decisive blow to the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. in my opinion, mrs podimata’s report is very well balanced and very well explained, and i welcome the four financial instruments introduced by the report. the four measures are all innovative and i would like to stress that this is not solely about the issue of a financial transaction tax. we should be careful in choosing which instruments to implement: in my opinion we should exclude tax on sectors − such as the energy sector − which have a multiplying effect on living costs. thus, for the final phase of this issue, the commission should conduct an evaluation through an impact assessment of the efficiency and potential results of using these instruments.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe it failed to address its subject matter of health inequalities and took a totally different approach. although there are many parts of the report i do not agree with, i would like to focus on the liberties given to ‘undocumented’ or ‘irregular’ migrants, as they are referred to in the report, which in essence is a method of renaming illegal immigrants. the report promotes giving many civil and health-associated liberties to individuals who have illegally entered many eu countries. this report will create many disadvantages for member states that deal with the issue of immigration on a daily basis, such as greece and italy. not only does it give illegal immigrants the right to claim equal access to healthcare, but it will also become the reason why even more so-called ‘asylum seekers’ will want to come to europe, in a desire to benefit from free healthcare, which is non-existent in most third world countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that reforming and modernising the tax systems of developing countries is the most important way of tackling illicit capital flight and combating tax evasion. these funds, which are usually sent to tax havens, have a direct impact on the economy of these countries, let alone in this period of economic crisis. improving tax systems would have a positive impact on development in developing countries, would put in place a framework for good economic governance, would promote transparency, but would also win the trust of citizens.
in writing. working class and poor women, young people, migrants and refugees expect nothing from the parties, wish lists and lies that the plutocracy throws at them in order to keep them in bondage to the capitalist system of exploitation, cheap labor to increase capital's profits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the anti-people policy of the eu, bourgeois governments, the imf and other imperialist institutions is hitting particularly hard at the conquests of women. mass unemployment, drastic reductions in wages and social benefits, flexible forms of employment, the increase in the retirement age and flexible working relationships, the commercialisation of social services in health and education are all worsening the living conditions of women and the working-class family in general. the eu's europe 2020 strategy, economic governance, the imf and ecb's budgetary discipline are preparing new anti-people, anti-worker measures. this policy must be reversed. women are called upon to develop their own struggles, to strengthen the class labour union movement, to rally around the goals of popular power and the popular economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women's poverty in the eu. in the current economic crisis, the austerity measures applied are also having a negative impact on women, putting them at a disadvantage in the labour market. in greece, the risk of poverty at work for women is 10% and is significantly higher than that for men, while in europe, female poverty is 36% compared to 11% for men. the main objective is to reduce the gender pay gap and the inequalities it creates and to take measures to support working single mothers through flexible working hours. member states are now called upon to create new jobs for women, where possible, and to facilitate their access to high-quality education to acquire skills and qualifications to compete for high-demand jobs.
in writing. combating poverty is one of the objectives proposed by the commission in the eu 2020 strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, including the creation of a european social fund. the recent financial recession has downgraded their position in society, increased discrimination against them and brought them closer to poverty. in her report on women's poverty in the european union, mrs rovana plumb is trying to find effective solutions to improve the position of women in society, which is why i voted for her.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2010 progress report on turkey.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her balanced and accurate presentation of the situation in turkey. i also appreciate the views of mr füle. the message from mrs oomen's report is that turkey is obliged to fulfil its obligations towards the european union in full if it wants to pursue its european path. if it does not want to go further in europe, it should say so, because for a large country like turkey, to go back and forth on this subject and to speak only in diplomatic terms is not in my favour. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. as if there's a problem between the political leadership and the military establishment. we have good intentions towards its neighbours at one time, but the aegean sea is being 'crashed' and turkish planes and ships are passing through daily, violating the greek land and air borders. we respect turkey and the turkish people, but we demand that turkey finally respect its neighbours and the european idea as expressed in the treaty of rome.
the intensification of the world economic crisis has given a new impetus to the competition between the imperialist centres for control of markets, energy sources and transport routes. the developments in libya, as well as the recent discoveries of hydrocarbons in the mediterranean and the frictions they have already caused, prove this. at the same time, nato and the european union are stepping up their interventions in the region. turkey on the other hand is trying to upgrade its strategic position in a region where dispute is intensifying and resistance is escalating. the recent revision of the constitution, which was so applauded by the european union and the united states, has served this purpose. at the same time, however, turkey continues to occupy the northern part of cyprus, to commit violations in the aegean, to violate basic human rights and democratic freedoms. the turkish workers know that they have nothing positive to expect from the european union because the european union is also taking back key gains of the workers and the peoples and because the european union has supported and continues to support a number of reactionary regimes in the region.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish authorities are committed to the development of the turkish economy. but contrary to the government's expressed desire for democratic change, the facts contradict it. in recent days we have been watching with concern the successive arrests of journalists. on february 20, journalist nadeem sener, known for his criticism of the police's stance on the murder of armenian journalist hrant dink, was arrested with six other colleagues. all were jailed on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization, bringing the number of imprisoned journalists to well over 100. ultimately, what seems to be prosecuted in these cases is criticism of the erdoğan government and not criminal acts. the union supported the government's efforts to stamp out the gang. but this cannot now be used as an excuse for restricting individual freedoms, and especially freedom of expression. i would ask commissioner füle to tell us how the commission intends to react to these events.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but is she ready for europe? no, not yet. is europe ready for turkey? no, not yet. has turkey abandoned the prospect of membership? no, not yet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they also sum up the complex relations between turkey and europe. for historical, political and cultural reasons, these relationships have always been a balance between trust and suspicion, between attraction and repulsion. the political expression of this reality is the long and painful process of accession of turkey. despite the remarkable progress turkey is making, it remains a country with human rights problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to refuse to normalise relations with one member state, the republic of cyprus, to maintain a threat of war against another member state, greece, and not to recognise or apply the convention on the law of the sea. recently, the arrogance of the turkish leadership has angered even the turkish cypriots. the european union, for its part, continues to send vague messages about membership, messages which are not helping either. so it needs a clearer position. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but to be fair, we must also be tough on turkey. in conclusion, i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her report, which i support, and i call on all my colleagues to support it.
member of the commission. − i would just like to say that the reverse charge mechanism is not a new mechanism and is applicable in several member states. for example, it is also applicable in the emission trading system in some member states. it is true that the reverse system charge actually implies collection of vat at the end of the supply chain instead of collecting it throughout the supply chain. when we look at the requests from the member states to apply a reverse charge mechanism we look of course at all the details, and the issue of the distortion of the internal market is also taken into account. that is why commission proposals are not made automatically but through a study, on the basis of which we submit a proposal to the council. with regard to romania, we have already been working for more than half a year – or even longer – in order to find a solution as to how to address vat fraud in agriculture in this particular country.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission, together with the ecb and the imf, recently concluded the third review of the economic assessment programme for greece. our joint overall assessment is twofold and i will outline it briefly. firstly, the programme has made further progress towards its objectives; and secondly, there remain considerable challenges to be overcome in order to secure fiscal sustainability, restore competitiveness and ensure a viable banking sector. while there have been delays in some areas, the underlying fiscal and other reforms necessary to deliver the programme’s medium-term objectives are now being put in place. however, major reforms still need to be designed and implemented in order to build the critical mass necessary to secure fiscal sustainability and economic recovery. the challenging efforts of consolidation will be supported by a bold privatisation programme, as indicated by prime minister papandreou. the government has expressed its commitment to substantially scaling up its privatisation programme with a view to realising eur 50 billion in proceeds from privatisation by 2015. this has the potential to cut the debt ratio by more than 20 percentage points of gdp over the next five years. furthermore, determination in implementing the privatisation programme will increase economic efficiency and support higher investment and exports. for all these reasons, the government’s full commitment to this process of privatisation, and not least its determination to tackle privileges and vested interests, will indeed be critical to realising the ambitious objectives and thus utilising the potential for substantial improvement in the market sentiment vis-à-vis greece. the commission therefore encourages greece to show resolve in its privatisation programme. this relates to a comment made by the oecd secretary-general: this year, 2011, is the decisive year for greece in terms of restoring the credibility of its economic policies and that is a prerequisite if it is to regain market access in the course of next year. to this end, the authorities should achieve, or even surpass the fiscal target for this year and articulate a robust medium-term budgetary strategy. in addition, greece should achieve a decisive breakthrough in structural reforms over the coming weeks and months. determined implementation of the programme should strengthen credibility and the confidence of citizens and investors alike. to conclude, through the combination of these policy measures – i.e. meeting the fiscal targets and implementing the privatisation programme – and the eu measures of extending the loan maturities and revisiting the pricing policy in the light of debt sustainability, concerns about debt restructuring can and will be addressed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, moody's is unjustifiably and unacceptably downgrading greece's creditworthiness to a level equivalent to that of angola. at the end of the day, commissioner, we all ask ourselves what is it that will finally get greece back on its feet: mere extension? the interest rate cut you've been reporting on? renegotiating the terms of the memorandum? the eurobond ? the european development bond? all of the above? is there something else? what about more austerity measures in greece? what is it, commissioner?
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lange on his very detailed report on industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. look at germany, look at china, look at spain. spain is able to withstand the economic crisis because it has an industrial base. my country, greece, had an industrial base, but we have taken care to eliminate it for various reasons. and i would like to focus on a very topical problem facing greek industry this week. we have heard statements by mr trichet about a possible increase in the european central bank's key interest rate within the next month. this caused a spike in the quarterly euribor interbank rate, to which thousands of business loans in greece are linked. in one day, euribor recorded the biggest increase since september 2008, creating huge difficulties for greek businesses that are already suffering in this climate of economic hardship that we have. the same day, however, we heard statements from the head of the international monetary fund for europe, who said that the monetary policy of the european union could be sustained and remain loose. we are not saying that mr trichet should not raise the base rate. but it could be a smooth transition so that we don't have this explosion of loans that's occurring. do you think you can intervene, commissioner?
i'm the editor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. rare earths are crucial for hundreds of high-tech applications, but also for the development of green technologies. the european industry is totally dependent on imports of rare earths from china, which monopolizes 97% of world production and holds 36% of the world's economic reserves. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the sampled exporting producers. at the same time, the european union industry lacks both access to raw materials and the know-how to process them. although rare earths are not as rare as their name suggests, experts estimate that it takes about 10 to 15 years to restore a viable production line. the european union is developing a medium-term strategy for raw materials, but the problem of rare earths is much more immediate. china's increased domestic demand and its efforts to limit environmental impact have already imposed stringent export restrictions, while global demand is rising. china has set export thresholds for the first half of 2011, down by 35% compared to last year, and even stricter restrictions are expected in the second half. the shortage is expected to be particularly acute over the next six months, with rare earth price increases and disruption to production lines. experts estimate that by 2014 there will be a shortage of 40,000 tons of rare earths worldwide. the questions to the commission are direct and pressing: - what immediate measures does the commission intend to take, together with its partners, to secure alternative sources of rare earths? - what are the developments in our discussions with china and our international partners on this issue?
the debate is closed.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr clark, you have a point of order not a speech. i am sorry, but i have to stop you. we now move on to the vote.
mr mcmillan-scott, i have an answer to what you have just said and it is that on monday this parliament voted the agenda. you will see in the agenda that parliament voted that the calendar votes would take place from 12.30 to 13.30. this is a decision that parliament took on monday.
this is how it goes. every monday we vote on the agenda. listen to me. do not aargh and oooh. if you want to change the rules you can do so, but the rules we have say that we vote every monday on the agenda. we did so this time with those members who were in the chamber. nevertheless, the president has the right to put the agenda to the vote again if a majority of the members want this, so what i will do is exercise my discretion and ask you: would you like to vote to change the agenda for today? who is in favour of voting to change the agenda? who is against? abstentions? (applause)having said this, dear colleagues, i remind you that if you want to have a say on the agenda, be here on mondays. mr mcmillan- scott’s proposal was to vote on the calendar before the address by the president of hungary, if indeed time allows – because, as you see, we are actually losing time. given the time now, i expect that we will have a lot of votes to continue with after the speech by the president. so, who is in favour of voting on the calendar before the president of hungary’s speech, if in fact we have the time to do so? who is against? abstentions? so we shall do that: we shall vote on the calendar if we have time before the president of hungary’s speech. (objections)colleagues, it makes no difference; we will continue the votes anyway after the president has spoken. (murmurs of dissent)i shall exercise my discretion. in order to stop this ridiculousness, i will take the vote on the calendar as the first vote. is everyone happy now? (applause)ok, you will still be here to vote after the president’s speech, but let us go ahead now with the vote on the 2012 calendar.
the vote will be taken again.
that concludes the vote. colleagues, we have fifty explanations of vote. you know what this means. i will be going very fast, on the minute i will be stopping you, on the dot. i apologise for this but we have to keep to the time.
in writing. the ep report and the resolution adopted by the plenary express the intense inter-imperialist contradictions within the eu over the disputes over economic and political relations and objectives that have been worked out in cooperation or confrontation with the turkish bourgeoisie. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june, called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services, and called for the establishment of a european network of information and consultation services for the protection of the environment. the turkish government still considers the popular forces resisting the violation of kurdish rights to be terrorist. the ep is tolerating turkey's intransigence and aggression against the republic of cyprus. the european union is also calling on the council to adopt a common position on the draft agreement on the european union's relations with the republic of cyprus. the kke is radically opposed to turkey's accession to the eu, because it is fighting against this imperialist organization. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of workers and their families.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft resolution on turkey's 2010 progress report. the european union is also calling on the turkish government to implement the bilateral readmission agreements it has concluded until the eu-turkey readmission agreement is implemented. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european parliament has also expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. at this time we must highlight, where we are and where we stand, the migratory risks we may face and we cannot be mere spectators to something that is already in front of us. turkey, as a candidate country for eu membership, must work with the eu and together with greece and the other member states, intercept the waves of migrants seeking to enter the eu illegally.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep report on the eu roma integration strategy today. their integration into society is a particularly important issue for all eu countries and for greece in particular, where according to studies (by the eu fundamental rights agency) 35% of roma are illiterate and only 4% have been in school for at least ten years. the key to integration is education and the desegregation of schools. alongside the provision of adequate health care and equal opportunities in employment, there should be closer monitoring in the member states of whether eu funds for roma are actually being used to benefit the recipients themselves.
the sitting was suspended at 1.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.
mr president, mr belder's report, as it has been presented to us, is an accurate, balanced and objective report. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. iran is a rich oil-producing country and has an important geopolitical position in the middle east region. the systematic violation of human rights, which was also mentioned in the report and by all the speakers, does not fit this country, this tradition and this people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the persistence of this country in pursuing a nuclear programme which is unacceptable to the international community has created enormous tensions in the region and enormous questions. but in any case, it does not contribute to the geopolitical stability of the region. mr president, we must not forget and ignore the great turmoil in north africa and the middle east and the fact that muslim societies are turning to political islam.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, commissioner ashton, i will not say that we the people are hypocrites, but i will say that we are contradictory. all the world's philosophy, all the world's literature, all the world's scholars, and all of us in this room, recognize human rights, and yet, as you said, in half the member countries of the un, human rights are being violated. we're making a rhapsody, not a substance. we know that in the name of great ideas the greatest crimes against humanity have been committed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. you know, i've been a lawyer for 40 years and i've realized, and i have as my credo, the fact that respect for human rights is a way of life, it's not easily enforced. i would ask you to make a more substantial policy on this matter.
mr president, lady ashton, the human rights council meeting this year is taking place in the shadow of events in north africa and the wider arab world, which have much to teach us. we must, as europe, rise to the occasion. it is therefore an opportunity to make a substantive assessment of the council in order to further improve its working methods and to underline our support for its independence and its role in promoting human rights in the world. at this time of historic change in our neighborhood, the message of the universality of human rights is more timely than ever. but at the same time, all international actors must work to eliminate the practice of 'two-facedness' in the invocation of human rights. we must be consistent and fair. the european union must not forget that the palestinians are the victims of the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza, and that the palestinians are the victims of the israeli occupation of gaza.
mr president, i agree with the high representative's comments that now is the time for more substantive intervention for a proper negotiation in the middle east. firstly, because no one knows what will happen in the countries of north africa, and secondly, because it is clear that the situation between israel and palestine is the one used as an alibi for terrorism and for tensions throughout the world and for fuelling tensions in the muslim world in particular. the peace process therefore requires direct intervention, your honour, and a special envoy, and it will also be an exercise for europe to see whether it can really intervene and play the role that the united states used to play with different results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. so a special negotiator with a special group, which would also have to do with the creation of a genuine democratic structure and constitutional order, would be of particular value, madam president, and i have the impression - based on what you have said - that you will undertake this effort.
mr president, commissioner hahn, you have given us a formula which says two things: on the one hand, to abolish collective agreements and, on the other, to reduce the minimum wage even further. this is the prescription that is constantly given to every patient. one of the patients is greece. you were there recently during an event organized by the socialist party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because i, who am from there, and i come from the socialist party which is currently governing the country and is doing everything it can to get it out of the very difficult situation into which it has been thrown by the governments of the right and has been forced to put water in its wine, to put water in the issue of collective labour agreements, i tell you that we are still not seeing results. you say that you are doing this for the european citizen, for the consumer, but if the consumer receives a lower salary, he will not have to spend, so it will not help growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. please, in addition to economic indicators, include social indicators.
mr president, commissioner, the great devastating forest fires which strike almost every summer, especially the member states of southern europe, and greece has a frightening and traumatic experience, lead us all to a safe conclusion: the keyword for responding in a timely and effective manner to natural and man-made disasters in europe is 'solidarity'. the lisbon treaty also introduced a solidarity clause for the provision of assistance to a member state affected by a natural disaster. we must prepare ourselves for the effective and substantial application of this clause. otherwise, we would be ignoring the 70% of european citizens who expect the european union to help their country if it is faced with a natural disaster. it is important not to let budgetary pressures influence disaster prevention policies and the financing of disaster prevention policies. it is also important that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
in writing. following the amendments adopted by the hungarian parliament last week, the hungarian law is now in line with european legislation and fundamental rights provisions, and the european commission has agreed to this. the joint resolution tabled is therefore without object and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i voted against the report on the amendment to the tfeu on a stability mechanism for the member states whose currency is the euro. the response of european union leaders to the economic crisis is austerity policies and cuts in public spending. policies and measures which are exhaustively affecting workers in most european countries, as they result in cuts in wages, pensions and social rights and in a rise in unemployment. in effect, they are being forced to pay the consequences of the economic crisis by those who created it. this treaty amendment opens the door to further intensification of austerity and is the culmination of a 'supervisory' package of measures comprising the economic governance package and the european semester. the 'euro pact' essentially abolishes the economic policies of national governments and almost extortionately turns the eurozone institution into a tool for german economic policy. i am also opposed to the use of the simplified procedure for treaty revision. i believe that the most appropriate method for amending the treaties is to hold referendums in all the member states.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, what mr barroso has announced to us is a substantial proposal to strengthen economic governance and the stability of the euro. this means accelerating political and economic governance in europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. we hope that this agreement will be able to respond to the economic and budgetary challenges of the union and send the right message to the markets. because, unfortunately, our problem today is the markets! the new economic governance comes after a crisis, a brutal crisis, of the public debt of the member states. i am sure that when the united states issues a new currency, which is estimated to be worth more than three trillion dollars, i see no reason why europe should not be able to provide the solution by issuing a new currency of the order of one trillion euros, which does not enter the market but becomes capital, what we call a 'support mechanism'. in any case, it seems that they are not yet ready to move on, as long as mrs merkel's views prevail in europe. the european union is forced to create new systems and values in a hurry and under adverse conditions. the existence of monetary union without the overall strategy of economic governance and coordination of the member states was a risk that was tested in practice and worked in general. i believe that it is time for the union to take more courageous decisions and make the structural changes that are needed. the council's decisions on the euro pact, of course, are, as i said, broadly in agreement with us and we believe that the euro will continue to be a good currency. however, it is not only the objective of stability in the euro area that must be safeguarded, but also the guarantee of a high level of growth and competitiveness in europe, the increase and maintenance of jobs for european citizens and, above all, young people. we must pay special attention to young people.
mr president, exactly one year ago, the european union's leadership and the greek prime minister decided to make greece the social and economic experimental animal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the results of this experiment are that, in the last quarter of 2010, debt approached 150%, unemployment 15% and youth specific unemployment 30%, inflation reached 4.4% and recession 6.6%. mr rehn, the greek experiment has failed and the experimental animal is ready to be exterminated economically, socially and politically. the same fate, ladies and gentlemen, awaits the leaders of the european union in the other countries which will have recourse to the euro pact, the european version of the greek memorandum. we are against this agreement because we do not want to see the extermination of workers, pensioners and the unemployed. mr rehn, when the greek memorandum was signed, you wished the greeks 'good courage'. if you are consistent with your wishes, on friday or saturday you should also wish european workers 'good luck'.
the communist party of greece condemns the new imperialist illegal war launched by the united states of america, france, britain and nato against libya. it is shameful hypocrisy to be concerned with providing humanitarian aid. the real target of the imperialists is oil, natural gas, the wealth-producing resources of libya, north africa and the wider region. the imperialist aggression of the usa, nato and the european union is increasing the risks to the peoples of the wider region. the new pact and the eu's economic governance are bringing mass unemployment and poverty. the european support mechanism is a mechanism of controlled bankruptcy and a sure default for the people to protect the profits of the plutocracy. this is the free world of the united states. this is the european union of democracy and freedom. the real dilemma is this: will the people go bankrupt or the plutocracy? in order for the people not to pay the consequences of imperialist barbarity and capitalist crisis, in order for them not to be condemned permanently to unemployment and poverty, we call on the people to rise up against imperialist interventions to fight back and fight for their modern rights, for the other way of development that will serve the people's needs and not the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. in the coming days, the 'euro pact' will be finalized by the european council. the main objective of the pact is to promote competitiveness leading to increased employment in the euro area countries. in order to achieve these objectives at european level, i propose that the definition and control of the geographical land and sea borders and the economic borders of the countries of the european union be incorporated into the pact. the result of this action will be to protect european production from the smuggling of products from the labour-intensive countries of the east. the introduction of these cheap products into the production of products, in addition to being illegal, hinders the proper functioning of the market, with the result that european companies' profits are reduced. this leads to a slowdown in growth and a reduction in the competitiveness of both european businesses and europe as a whole. in conclusion, incentives should be created for the member states of the european union to pursue the development of exclusive economic zones. it is necessary to have a european guarantee for the whole of the european eez so that there is no doubt from third countries.
in writing. i too would like to express my condolences and sympathy to the suffering people of japan from the devastating effects of the massive earthquake and tsunami, with thousands of lives lost and enormous destruction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised by the fact that the safety of nuclear installations is not guaranteed by the safety of nuclear installations. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised by the fact that the safety of nuclear installations is not guaranteed by the safety of nuclear installations. their location and design should be as extreme as the extreme natural phenomena to which they may be exposed. scientists estimate with a high degree of certainty that strong earthquakes may occur in the medium to long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. there are modern, sustainable, smart and efficient ways for earthquake-prone countries to balance their energy needs. otherwise, human life seems to be offset by the energy problem.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, continuing what the honourable members have said, i would also like to add that, first of all, madam minister, almost a year after the decisions we in parliament took - and it really took a lot of effort and a lot of effort to make those decisions - we also carried out a mission to syria for that purpose and tried to have as many incentives as possible so that more and more member states would be involved in the refugee resettlement programme - so despite all that, we are still passive. and if there is a formal problem on the council's part and parliament has to be involved, we are here to find solutions. that's our purpose. we are talking about the humanitarian dimension of this programme, but we are also talking about the means it provides europe to conduct its foreign policy even more effectively. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the negotiations on the north-south dialogue. of course, we are referring to the needs that exist worldwide. but of course we must realize that the problem is now before us. europe is called upon to play a leading role in the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources for the programme are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so in the near future. in conclusion, madam minister, i would like to recall the proposal we made then and which we are constantly reiterating as the european people's party, a proposal on the internal resettlement programme for refugees, the so-called 'reallocation'. we cannot wait, madam minister, for more 'lambduthus' to be seen before we realise how necessary this initiative is, and we must put it into effect quickly. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schwab, and the shadow socialist rapporteur, mrs gebhardt. i thank them and at the same time admire them because they have had a great deal of perseverance and also a very great deal of patience in bringing us to this point which we are discussing today and which, i think, gives a good basis for work to commissioner reding who has expressed himself, in my opinion, in a way which allows us to be optimistic. i personally consider minimum harmonization to be a very good and at the same time realistic basis for our work. i come from a country - greece - which has achieved a very high level of consumer protection. and as you can see, i would not like this high level of consumer protection to go down. i must admit that i was extremely troubled when i first heard mr schwab's arguments for maximum harmonization. that's when something i had read in a magazine really came to mind: someone tried to make the most beautiful female face by taking the eyes of one actress, the nose of one singer, the lips of another actress. in the end, the face that came out was a monster. i use this analogy to show just how it can be that we start with the best of intentions but fail to achieve the desired good result. i therefore believe that minimum harmonization is the right basis for work.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, we are really discussing a very critical issue: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the oil spills, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to prevent them. you said the study was complete. and yet, even though we have a study -- because we said we didn't have the study to go forward -- we now want this study to go through peer review. the question is, commissioner, when will this process be completed. what are the timelines? how long will we have to wait until this indicator is checked by this methodology and we can finally put it into law? because, really, the problem with sand tar isn't just emissions. there's also the destruction of unique forests, our crucial allies in tackling climate change, the canadian arctic forests. at the same time we are destroying the indigenous land on which this enormous destruction is being carried out and, if we do not put the index in our legislation today, this destruction will spread to other countries.
the agenda calls for a vote. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mr audy, i take your point but if i recall correctly the president of the council was in the parliament after the 11 march extraordinary session of the council, in an extraordinary conference of presidents that was open to all members. can we now please move on to the votes? – μετά την ψηφοφορία:
we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the 2012 budget. the report's general principles and objectives are moving in the right direction, stressing that the next eu budgets should focus on policies to boost employment and national economies (the total eu budget for implementing the flagship initiatives by 2020 is estimated at €1.8 trillion). however, it is important to stress at all times that the achievement of the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy is also a necessary condition for member states to adhere to them. unfortunately, as the european commission has found, national plans to date do not deliver on key priorities of the strategy, such as increasing employment to 75% by 2020 from 69% today.
in writing. i voted against the single european act because it is inspired by the bolkestein directive which establishes the principle of the country of origin and thus allows for different treatment between workers in terms of wages, conditions, working time, social protection, etc. the same approach applies to workers from 'third countries' outside the european union. the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of equal treatment for european and non-european workers, thus increasing the competition between them and between foreign workers, depending on whether they are posted, seasonal workers, students or residents. these differences only enhance exploitation and precariousness. despite the mobilization of the european trade unions and the progressive forces in parliament for full equality of rights for all workers, the text reflects mainly a compromise between the right and the socialists. the future directive will not apply to posted workers or students, will allow discrimination on grounds such as language proficiency, and will deny family benefits to the families of seasonal workers. in addition, the call for ratification of the un convention on the protection of the rights of migrants and their families has been removed.
the european parliament is adjourned.
i would like to say, mr president, that i too agree with what has been said, namely that we all want a credible and effective asylum procedure and we all want to safeguard those objectives. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of asylum. when we arrived at the airport, we visited the detention centre and there a third country national - who was in front of us - was being held and we talked to him. so after telling us that he had applied for asylum, after a while he started speaking in greek! so we asked him how he knew greek and he said: i speak the language because i have been working in greece for 10 years, i had just been to my country, i have returned and now i have asked for asylum. i would like to say that we must, of course, emphasize the credibility and transparency of these procedures, protect those who are entitled to asylum, but also beware of abuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we say that after six months the burden of proof for the person persecuted in his own country is transferred to the member state and not to the applicant himself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner.
member of the commission. − mr president, as has been said many times, we have been negotiating this for a very long time and – as mr moraes pointed out – we have had the objective of having a joint common asylum policy since 1999. the council has made the decision to have this by 2012, and we are beginning to see an end to the deadlock that we have had for so many years. i would like to thank parliament, because i think it has made a great contribution to this. we must have a fair, efficient and coherent system that is equivalent in all member states. it has been very clear from the beginning, in my contact with the different rapporteurs on the whole package, that there would have to be some amendments. this is not something that the commission just came up with. the deadlock is such that we need to make some compromises so that the two legislative partners in this can agree. with the vote that you will be making tomorrow or on wednesday and with the commission’s proposals in this, we will be in a good position to try to see if we can find some compromises. we have been involved in contacting the council throughout the spring in order to identify the main difficulties here. if we want to achieve an agreement on the asylum package by 2012 and thus commemorate the 60th anniversary of the geneva convention – i think we all want to do that – we must be ready to make some compromises. this is a very good start. it is the cornerstone of the future system. i would like to thank the rapporteur, all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for this work.
the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mrs sylvie guillaume (a7-0085/2011) will take place on wednesday 6 april 2011 at 12.00 hours.
the next item is the report by mr jörg leichtfried (a7-0028/2011), on behalf of the committee on international trade, on a community system for the control of exports of dual-use items and technology (com ((2008) 0854 - c7-0062/2010 - 2008/0249 ((cod)).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of mr de gucht, i would again like to thank the rapporteur and his committee for the work they are doing. the commission very much shares the views in their report and on the two remaining issues where they propose one ex ante system. the most important thing for the commission is that it is the same system, because we have to avoid all kinds of double standards and over-complications here. we also agree with you that some kind of reporting mechanism is necessary – without, of course, posing an exaggerated burden on small and medium-sized companies in particular. however, some kind of reporting mechanism would be necessary, and i hope that you will be able to reach a conclusion with the council on these remaining issues later. thank you again for this debate, mr president.
the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mr jörg leichtfried (a7-0028/2011) will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr brian simpson (a7-0329/2010), on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on european statistics in the field of tourism (com (2010) 0117 - c7-0085/2010 - 2010/0063 (cod)).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, it is well known that the european union is the number one tourist destination in the world. tourism accounts for 4% of the european union's gdp, 2 million businesses and some 8 million jobs. the report by mr simpson on the commission proposal for a directive on the revision of the legal basis for european statistics on tourism is therefore both important and comes at a critical time for the future of tourism, as the economic crisis and the recent military operations in the mediterranean are both a threat to tourism and at the same time create conditions for turning tourists away from a safe europe. we ask the commission - beyond the collection of statistics - to incorporate all the measures relating to tourism and the many other sectors connected with it, so that we can finally upgrade the tourist product. i would point out that in my country, greece, tourism is a pillar of the economy, accounting for about 7% of gdp and covering 700 000 jobs.
in writing. violence against women takes many forms, ranging from psychological oppression, abuse, rape, sexual violence, to the totally unacceptable and ongoing illegal trafficking and exploitation of women in inhumane prostitution rings. the networks of the circuits, after deceiving young women, mostly women, force them, often violently, into prostitution. many are even driven to suicide to end their nightmare. i would ask that we look more closely at the countries that are the starting point of trafficking rings, countries in which traffickers buy the silence and consent of state officials and thus turn them into a 'paradise' for human rights violations. these circuits can be tackled by transnational cooperation between the eu, which is the destination, and the countries from which the illegal circuits originate. i call on the commission to take action in this direction. it is clear that in this area women's rights organizations really have a lot of work to do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the past few years we have succeeded in reducing the flow of migrants from north africa to the south of europe, to italy, spain, portugal, malta and greece, by means of bilateral agreements concluded by these countries with their north african counterparts, and we have indeed had considerable results. that is why, if you like, greece was put under even more pressure through turkey, because we were not able, as europe and as greece, to implement corresponding agreements with turkey, even though there were such bilateral agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the package of measures you have announced is very good, and we must help these countries. it is our duty to help all our fellow men, but this must also be linked to the obligation of the countries concerned to take back all those who have arrived in lampedusa and, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in other countries in europe, because the more the pressure increases, the more we will have a movement of these people to other countries. and since we are discussing this and referring to directive 55, should we not go back to what we were saying a year ago - and my colleagues have also mentioned it - the much-awaited and notorious reallocation? the repatriation, the resettlement of refugees, the resettlement we are still waiting to implement, and tell us what else we should do. but should we also put the internal resettlement of refugees first, so that we can alleviate the countries that are facing a real problem? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we may face the same problem with italy. the greek government is coming again and is declaring a partial barrier to the jew, without us knowing how we are going to solve the problem. it is at this crucial point that we need real solidarity and a comprehensive strategy, madam commissioner.
madam president, mr provera has done a good job and i congratulate him. the commission's proposal is realistic and its proposal to share the burden of migration is a necessary solution. so i propose that we proceed to an agreement that will improve and update dublin. the development of events, madam president, shows that the issue of immigration will not be solved, it will continue! we can't undo it, but we have to manage it. it is not possible for greece, italy and spain to deal with this alone, because these countries are being dismantled, madam president. we have not dealt with the problem since 1990, we consider that it does not exist, the member states are left to their own devices and these poor people are exploited, as are the indigenous people of europe who bear this burden. we must not forget that there are 7 million unemployed people in europe today, 3 million of whom are aged between 19 and 24.
madam president, north africa is on fire because of the political developments in egypt, tunisia, libya. the crisis is also affecting other countries in the middle east, with adverse consequences, politically dubious and uncertain. at the same time, there is a significant autonomy of turkey from the decision-making centres of the west, with ankara's conflict with israel, the tightening of relations between turkey, iran and brazil. turkey is becoming independent of both american policies in the middle east and european commitments for future membership of the european union. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the fight against unemployment. finally, reliable international statistics show that by 2030 the muslim population, which today stands at 1 billion, 600 million, will be 2.2 billion, while europeans will be assimilated by at least 50 million inhabitants. question: do the leaders of europe understand that the destabilisation of the south will have adverse effects not only on the euro but also on the geopolitical stability of the western security system?
madam president, by ratifying the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the 27 member states have committed themselves to equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportunities, ensuring that our fellow citizens are fully integrated into society. but as it turns out, that's not true for everyone. the estimated 30 million blind people living in europe face enormous difficulties even in their daily activities - such as buying products - because they must first, and always rely on others, to know what is in a package. i would therefore like to invite the commission to consult widely with the interested parties on the introduction of a voluntary braille labelling system on product packaging, and at the same time invite my colleagues here to support the written declaration by signing it.
madam president, the conclusions of the last summit were anything but reassuring. the clear provision for a member state to be able to restructure its debt after 2013 is a clear retreat from the original position of the european union when the crisis broke out: that debt restructuring would be ruled out at all costs. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary powers are not undermined by the fact that the council of ministers has not yet adopted a decision on the budget. so what happened that changed that attitude? every cost, every effort, has been made, or have we finally run out? the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the forecasts and estimates made are not verified. the recession is deepening in greece instead of stopping, government spending is at -9%, when it should be at +8.5% based on the 2011 memorandum, and, most sadly, unemployment is already above 15%. the answer to these is one: growth. but are we seeing that growth? no, we need growth policies, not redistributions and discussions about restructuring.
in writing. the nuclear threat, as one of the consequences of the massive earthquake in japan and the subsequent tsunami, makes the discussion of the report of the budgetary control committee extremely timely, but at the same time it shows that the eu is monitoring and actively supporting, through financial aid, the necessary efforts to decommission nuclear power stations. efforts to ensure the proper and safe operation of nuclear power stations in europe - never to see another chernobyl or fukushima - while also taking care to deal with the effects of closure and decommissioning, i.e. meeting the energy needs of the countries in which they operate. the efforts, accompanied by substantial financial support to lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, demonstrate the seriousness with which the eu is handling the issue of nuclear safety. this is a carefully planned programming which has been in place since 1999. this financial support shall also contribute to the environmental upgrading and modernisation of the energy production, transmission and distribution sectors and to the enhancement of the security of energy supply. the evaluation of the effectiveness of the resources allocated and the respect of their sound and transparent management are the factors that will guarantee the achievement of the objective.
madam president, the euro plus pact aims at strengthening and enhancing european competitiveness, but how can we achieve a european added value economy when our labour market is being violated by illegal immigration and our european products are being replaced by contraband products imported from labour-intensive countries in the east? the sooner we identify and protect our geographical and economic products from the european union the better. so my proposal is that we incorporate the identification and protection of the economic and geographical borders of europe within the euro pact, otherwise we will not be able to achieve a competitive europe within a very strongly aggressive competitive global economy.
madam president, without wishing to diminish the importance of the recent decisions of the european council, the logic which has characterized european decisions for a year is too slow, too little. and this is not because no significant steps forward have been made, but because the benchmark today cannot be the past, what we did in the past to stabilise and strengthen the euro area, but how effective we are in dealing with the crisis. unfortunately, however, we are not effective either with regard to the markets - just look at the cost of borrowing for the countries of the region and especially portugal in recent days - but we are not effective and convincing, unfortunately, with regard to the european citizens who increasingly believe that europe is not part of the solution, but part of the problem. the european parliament, in two recent resolutions, and leading figures from across the political spectrum, have pointed out that in order to have an effective and comprehensive response to the debt crisis, we should seriously consider the solution of a eurobond issuing system. at the same time, the majority of the european council responds that this cannot be done, because in a crisis it would create a moral hazard for countries with sound budgets. and yet, while they are invoking moral hazard to counter eurobonds, they are creating moral hazard at the expense of countries in economic difficulty, by officially putting on the table without any hesitation the prospect of controlled bankruptcy and the involvement of private parties in cost-sharing, and thus perpetuating the crisis by keeping borrowing costs at an unreasonably high level. if we really want private participation and a fairer sharing of costs, then we should seriously consider, as a matter of priority, the introduction of a financial transaction tax so that part of the revenue is used to finance the permanent mechanism.
madam president, mrs podimatka has covered for me on the financial side. i would like to refer to another very important issue, the question of nuclear energy. what japan has taught us. two things: first, that no one can ever be adequately prepared for natural disasters and their combinations. secondly, nuclear energy is never completely safe. what are we doing ? we accuse japan of negligence. we say it was not nuclear power, but japan that was not safe. we say we will do our own inspections of nuclear power stations to see which are not safe and which are, and then proceed to further development. but we did not take the lessons from japan. we don't even have japan's disaster preparedness, we don't even have the policy to protect our citizens from cross-border problems, like a nuclear accident. we must stop calling for the construction of new nuclear power stations today. we must invest, not in the development of nuclear energy, but in the development of the efficiency of photovoltaic and other renewable energy sources. the consequences of nuclear energy are transboundary and therefore the responsibility of the european union, and therefore, mr barroso and mr van rompuy, it will be your responsibility too if we do not take the necessary measures to deal with a new accident.
mr president, i voted in favour of the marinescu report precisely because there is a heavy legacy of extremely dangerous nuclear reactors in south-eastern and eastern europe, such as in bulgaria, romania and slovakia. over the years, however, billions of euros have been spent by european citizens to modernise and extend their lives. it is essentially a subsidy to the nuclear lobby which was responsible for the after-sales. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but now we can change political will. convert subsidies for repairs to unsafe reactors immediately into funding for their shutdown. freeze all new reactors that are being planned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. divert resources allocated to the design and construction of new reactors to an economy based on 100% renewable energy by 2050. we are in a state of emergency and we must respond.
in writing. i voted against the report on migration flows because, despite the fact that there is a fairly correct and balanced analysis of the main causes that force people to leave their home, the report does not draw the corresponding conclusions and proposals. on the one hand, it insists on a conception that divides people into legal and illegal and on the instrumental conception of 'useful' and non-immigrant, thus linking their rights according to the various 'quotas' of the union and the member states. on the other hand, the report links the phenomenon of migration with security issues, creates confusion and identification between migrants and various criminal or 'terrorist' activities and thus reinforces the practices and ideologies that criminalise them. in this context, the report, while further strengthening the union's 'paternalistic' role, goes so far as to propose linking the pillar of eu development aid to third countries with the pillar of 'security', thus completely changing the nature and purpose of this aid.
in writing. it is important that at european level we link the dimension of the increasing pressure of migration flows to the eu's foreign policy. european initiatives can help the politically unstable countries of north africa, which are home to a large number of illegal immigrants. tools such as development assistance and cooperation programmes and readmission agreements can and should be fully exploited. it is clear that these issues are of particular importance for greece and the rest of the eu in the period ahead, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted against mr provera's report because i think his report is realistic in tackling the problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from pollution. the problem of immigration is difficult to solve, but we can, however, manage it with the right approaches. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that since january 23 000 migrants have crossed into italy. in particular, after the developments in north africa and the arab world, we must look to find a european strategy to deal with the problem of migration so that member states are not left to their own devices and, at the same time, that the poor people who are forced to migrate and the citizens of europe who bear this burden are not exploited.
in writing. economic recession and political instability in several countries have contributed to an increase in migration flows, which is a challenge for the eu. in this report, the measures proposed will help to tackle this phenomenon, which directly terrorises the countries bordering the eu and, indirectly, the eu as a whole. one of these measures is the development of a permanent monitoring system for frontex's activities and operations, which should be characterized by durability and stability, in relation to the management of migration flows. i therefore voted in favour of mr provera's report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the role and contribution of women in rural development and in the agricultural sector is enormous. support for women and their business plans in the rural sector contributes to significant development progress for the whole rural community. in the midst of an economic crisis, and with unemployment soaring, we need to provide incentives to keep women of all ages in the countryside, support female entrepreneurship and invest in their education to achieve growth and innovation in the agricultural sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on violence against women, an initiative which helps to ensure a decent life for women in europe. statistics show that about one fifth of women living in europe have been victims of violence, and 20% have experienced violence from their intimate surroundings. the report's proposals are important for combating violence against women, as they: • require member states to punish offenders according to the seriousness of the crime they have committed (sexual abuse, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, genital mutilation); • providing the means necessary to assist victims of violence, such as legal assistance and the establishment of safe reception centres for victims; • legal assistance for victims and the obligation to prosecute all forms of gender-based violence; • the provision is made for young women to be made more aware of the risks they face through appropriate training. however, i voted against the proposal to increase the number of courts with jurisdiction over gender-based violence, as such a proposal introduces unacceptable discrimination and is contrary to the principle of gender equality.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets out a framework for a new european policy to combat violence against women. proposes a set of clear policy measures on combating gender-based violence; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is based on the principle of proportionality. it's a trade that focuses on women and children. these circuits can be tackled by transnational cooperation between the eu, which is the destination, and the countries from which the illegal circuits originate. i call on the commission to take action in this direction.
president of the commission. - i was not aware of that last point. if i have information, i'll probably be happy to intervene. as regards the milk question, you are right, madam member. i have not only three children, but also a grandchild who, for the time being, drinks only milk. it is the only thing he can consume, and i am therefore as concerned as you are about the food security and also the milk we import into europe. our information, based on all the expertise we have, is that the measures we have taken are sufficient to deal with the existing risks. so far, we have not identified any cases of contaminated food at levels that could pose a threat to the health of our consumers, and we will continue to apply the highest standards in this regard.
mr president, i would ask the president of the commission and the president of parliament to pay some tribute to these 50 - not 50, more - anonymous japanese workers who are working knowing that they will die! we in this parliament also pay tribute to activists who are fighting to save brown bears - in the himalayas, for example. with all due respect, but has it occurred to anyone here that something should be said about these people who, despite knowing they're going to die, are there working endless days? i want to read to you exactly what a japanese worker said who was able to give a short interview. he said: "i feel very strongly that there is no one else of us to do this work and that we cannot go home until we finish this work". the radiation suits that tepco had were used up very quickly. he and his colleagues were forced to invent components. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. president, the northeast japan area will remain contaminated for the next 300 to 400 years and life will never return to normal. that's what the scientists say. meanwhile, plans to build a nuclear power plant in a highly seismic area are progressing smoothly. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and the european council has already taken a decision on the matter. that's what common, simple logic says. what is the commission's response to all this? in the agenda for consultation with the candidate countries (you mentioned third countries before, i refer to the candidate countries), how high is the environmental ethics for the use of nuclear energy?
the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mr josé manuel fernandes (a7-0087/2011) will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr cătălin sorin ivan (a7-0050/2011), on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the european union's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2009 (com (2010) 0382 - 2010/2247 (ini)).
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work on the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. the report covers in detail all the areas in which the member states implement the budget, such as agriculture, cohesion, pre-accession funds and the collection of the european union's own resources through customs duties. i fully agree that it is necessary to improve the supervision of pre-accession funds, given the experience of 2009, and that it is necessary to monitor olaf's work continuously, and not just when the annual report is being discussed. finally, madam president, i would like to stress that the report provides us with important findings which we can use in the discussions that have begun, both for the revision of the financial regulation and for the design of cohesion policy after 2013.
the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mr cătălin sorin ivan (a7-0050/2011) will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
member of the commission. − madam president, on 25 february 2011, the commission adopted an eur 3 million emergency decision on humanitarian aid operations in connection with the libyan crisis. those funds were mobilised immediately, and were actually the first significant contribution to arrive. this initial amount was increased to eur 30 million on 3 march in view of the rapidly increasing humanitarian needs. an additional amount of eur 6 million has been mobilised under the civil protection budget line for the co-financing of assistance in kind provided by the member states. eu humanitarian assistance is implemented through our partners, funded by echo or through assistance in kind from the member states, and mobilised and coordinated via the eu civil protection mechanism. it covers the provision of assistance to people fleeing libya on the borders with tunisia, egypt and algeria, support for the repatriation of third-country nationals to their countries of origin, the provision of assistance and humanitarian protection to people with refugee status who cannot go back to their countries – they have no countries to go to – and to libyans fleeing libya, the financing and prepositioning of emergency stocks to provide relief aid inside libya, and the financing of medical supplies, emergency surgery and food assistance inside libya, to be implemented as and when specific areas become accessible. currently, not the whole territory is accessible. for the time being, we can operate in the east but not in the west, which is controlled by gaddafi. the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy jointly adopted, on 8 march 2011, a communication on the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean. it presents a strategy for europe to support the momentous changes in the southern neighbourhood. the commission has also mobilised its instruments to support, if needed, italy and other member states if a massive influx of migrants from north africa were to materialise. this response includes operational measures and financial assistance. the frontex joint operation – hermes 2011 – was launched on 20 february with assets and experts from a number of member states. we are closely monitoring developments and preparing for different scenarios. if required, frontex operations could be strengthened to help deal with possible new inflows. the commission is ready to mobilise additional financial assistance from funds such as the external borders fund and the european refugee fund, which amount to eur 25 million in total. a large number of member states are prepared to provide very welcome specialised personnel and technical assets. compared to the status quo, current military operations have not affected the level of humanitarian access, because it was restricted from the beginning of the crisis by forces loyal to gaddafi. ongoing negotiations between the authorities in tripoli and the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (unocha) have not yet resulted in an agreement on humanitarian access to western libya.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for her detailed reply. i think it is particularly important that the european union is at the forefront of the world in the provision of humanitarian aid, that it shows its humanitarian face. there is of course a question - and it is a question of time - as to whether humanitarian aid is actually reaching the hands of the actual recipients, and transparency plays a very important role in this. i am struck, commissioner, by the sensitivity of the nordic countries to open up the european market, its borders, to agricultural exports from these countries, from north africa, to the european union, beyond the conventional framework. but the south of europe cannot pay for it again, because that is where competition is located. it accepts the pressure of immigration, we cannot have a problem in the rural south of europe.
madam president, commissioner, since the directive you referred to on the implementation of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare has not yet entered into force, i would like to ask you: does the patient, if he seeks healthcare services in another country, have the right to be compensated by his own funds from now on? i would simply remind you that the european court of justice has already given positive rulings on this.
member of the commission. − if we continue with the status quo, then yes, we have to face the possibility of the collapse of a lot of stocks, and that is out of the question. i can only agree that our situation is very fragile. if we have to face an extreme situation then the consequences will be very bad. that is why we need the reform and that is why we are going to examine the best way forward in order to achieve a balance between the sustainability of stocks and the socio-economic impact that the reform will have. however, let me be clear: it is not that we are prioritising environmental care over care for our fishermen. we care about our fishermen and about the generations to come. that is why we need the reform because, to be honest with you, if we do not have any fish stocks then fishermen in the mediterranean and all other european waters will have no future. in order to be sure that our fisheries industry has a future, we need the reform. we intend to bring forward some sound proposals and we intend to secure the livelihoods of our fishermen. this is something we want to do. another member referred to the selectivity of fishing gear. our services will be very willing to examine any new gear and any innovation in relation to selectivity. i would also like to say that, within the framework of our new funding system, we intend to allocate money in a generous way, despite the crisis, in order to be sure that improvements in selectivity are implemented. i very much welcome all the initiatives by the industry – by our fishermen – to bring about improvements in the selectivity of fishing gear. in general, i would like to repeat that the status quo is not an option. it is not an option for the sustainability of the stocks, for the livelihoods of our fishermen or for the future of our coastal communities. that is why we need this reform.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank the honourable member for his question because it gives me the opportunity to inform the house about shark finning. finning has been banned since 2003, via a council regulation, on eu vessels fishing anywhere in the world and on all vessels fishing in eu waters. in general there is a ban on shark finning. however, the current regulation allows – and this is the problem we face – under certain conditions, on-board processing involving the removal of fins on board vessels, while making obligatory the retention of all shark carcasses on board. this is why we have faced the problem of shark finning in recent years. we presented a plan of action in february 2009 and have since taken a number of measures. we are also actively working with regional organisations to put effective management regimes in place for the most vulnerable shark species and to ensure their sustainable exploitation. so the problem we are facing with a view to addressing this situation is the need for a public consultation, and we have now already had a public consultation for some months. the consultation document presented three of the main options that are currently being discussed by experts worldwide to improve controls and to ensure full compliance. many stakeholders, such as the fishing industry, scientists, managers and ngos, as well as the general public, have sent us their comments. i would like to assure you that i take the issue of protecting sharks very seriously. i have therefore asked my services to thoroughly study all the contributions received. we will then prepare an impact assessment which, as you know, is required to modify the regulation. it is my intention to have a legislative proposal adopted as soon as practically possible. i would like to inform you that i have made this issue a priority in order not to lose any more time. i would also like to say that the commission has taken a lot of measures to ensure the sustainable management and protection of sharks in general, beyond shark finning. we presented a plan of action and have since taken a number of measures. we have prohibited fishing for porbeagle, basking shark and white shark in eu waters. we have banned gill nets below 200 metres to protect deepwater sharks. last year – and i would like to underline this – we proposed a sustainable and science-based quota for various sharks. we had a very rough time negotiating this in the council. it was not an easy task, but in the end we were successful and we have a sustainable proposal for this year and, i hope, for next year.
member of the commission. − i agree with the members of parliament that although there is a ban, we cannot be happy with this situation. i agree with you and we know the reality and how it works. we know that there is a very profitable industry behind all this discussion. but we have to take measures consistent with our legal framework, so let me explain. the problem exists because the industry can now land the fins and the sharks at different ports. they can land the fins which, as we can imagine, are more precious because of the demand for them, especially in asia, and they can land the bodies of the sharks somewhere else, making control very difficult. this is why all this happens. this is something we have in mind. that is why we came forward with this consultation procedure because we would like to deal with this very difficult situation. so what i can tell you is that we are going to have an ambitious proposal and, by the end of the year, i hope we will have a new legal instrument on shark fins that will have some concrete results. we are going to regulate this situation once and for all. as regards the analogy on the mackerel situation, what i can say here is that the european union has done its best. i would like to say that the member states around this area were very cooperative and our fishermen and our industry had to suffer a lot of sacrifices in order to secure the sustainability of the stocks. that is why we were very upset when iceland and the faroe islands came with unilateral approaches and increased their own quotas by themselves. this is something we simply cannot accept. so we are now working on this – my services are working with the cabinet and the services of the trade commissioner, mr de gucht – and we are going to launch a legislative proposal for a legal weapon to use in such cases. we have some weapons now, but the legal weapons at our disposal now refer only to fresh fish, including mackerel, and not to the products of mackerel and especially not to fish oil and fish meal which are the main export products from iceland and the faroe islands. so we have to be productive on this. the commission is going to do its best to ensure that during the next fishing season the sustainability of the stocks will be protected.
member of the commission. − i thank ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her question because it gives us the opportunity to refer to this very difficult situation in the mediterranean. i would like to inform parliament that the commission recently adopted a communication on ‘a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean’, which sets out a series of proposals to address the challenges that the region currently faces following recent developments. as you know, this is an extreme situation which is very fragile and very worrying. the commission is highly satisfied with the general approval for its initiative. this communication has been received in a very positive way by all the member states and, i hope, by parliament. let me explain a few actions that we have taken to date towards the objective of a new maritime strategy for the mediterranean. firstly, in relation to an integrated maritime policy, we have already established a working group on such a policy, involving all the mediterranean coastal states and regional conventions. we plan to take this forward as a cross-cutting forum on all maritime-related activities, cooperation and funding in the region. as part of this initiative, we also have the first technical assistance project, which was launched under the european neighbourhood policy, dealing with the integrated maritime policy for the mediterranean. i would also like to inform parliament about an initiative i took recently in launching a joint cooperation project in the mediterranean together with the international maritime organisation and the european investment bank. i am counting on this initiative and i hope it will be fruitful. we will define targeted actions for maritime growth, jobs and maritime training, which is very important for the mediterranean region. we will also include measures for integrated maritime surveillance, and we will have private-sector involvement because, with regard to maritime issues, i believe this to be absolutely necessary. in parallel, the commission intends to support the organisation of a forum for mediterranean coastguards throughout the region. we will also step up our efforts in the area of fisheries control through training, workshops and joint control in cooperation with food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao). regarding protection of the environment and climate change, at eu level the commission is now working with the member states to achieve good environmental status in its marine waters by 2020. at regional level, the eu and its member states cooperate, in the framework of the barcelona convention, with mediterranean partner countries to promote the prevention of pollution, and improve the response to it, in all the regional seas bordering the union. with regard to migration-related problems and the recent developments in the region, the commission is committed to assisting and supporting eu member states that face sudden migratory pressures and is ready to mobilise financial assistance. we are now working on identifying financial emergency envelopes under the external borders fund, and possibly the return fund and the european refugee fund, in addition to funding already earmarked for 2011. as regards the surveillance of external borders, the commission is in constant contact with frontex, which has launched the hermes 2011 joint operation to control the eu external border in the region. frontex, together with europol, has also started preparing a targeted risk assessment of potential exploitation of the volatile political situation by criminal and terrorist networks, and monitoring irregular migration flows.
i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your reference to the european commission's plans and new guidelines, and for the personal commitment you have expressed in preparing for this new reality in the mediterranean. i would like to ask you more specifically: how do you assess the projects already launched for the decontamination of the mediterranean, for the transfer of energy and how do these fit into the context of the maritime policy, and what added value do you expect to be given to the plans and programmes of the new policy to which you have already referred?
member of the commission. − i would like to agree with mrs grässle that there is, indeed, a strong possibility of pollution because of the energy transfer in the mediterranean. there is a risk here because the mediterranean is a rather closed sea and it cannot stand the burden of possible pollution. so what we are going to do now is to increase and enhance our cooperation, the commission’s cooperation, with member states. i would like to say to mrs grässle that commissioner potočnik and myself will be visiting greece next week and we are going to organise something about the pollution of the mediterranean. i would also like to inform her that mediterranean countries could also better prevent and detect pollution from ships by participating in emsa’s satellite-based monitoring system, such as safe sea nets or clean sea nets. we have these systems and we are going to encourage our member states around the mediterranean to participate in these systems, to detect possible pollution from ships. i would like to say that we are going to incentivise not only our member states, but also our neighbours through discussions and cooperation in order to fulfil this aim. with regard to regional cooperation, yes, we are going to take some initiatives on it and we have a lot of initiatives in the framework of the general committee for fisheries in the mediterranean region (gfcm), and we are also now working to have a new strategy, a maritime strategy, in the adriatic and ionian region. we are now working with the governments of the member states around the adriatic and ionian seas: italy, slovenia and greece but also other neighbours around there, croatia, montenegro and albania. we are trying to have a maritime cooperative strategy for this region. i would like to underline that this will really be an opportunity for cohesion funds, as the honourable member has already said. lastly, a brief remark about western sahara: yes, we had a lot of concerns about the right of the real beneficiaries to take advantage of the money we are giving to morocco as part of this fisheries agreement. that is why we have asked the moroccan government to give us data with regard to not only the implementation of the agreement in general, but also to the regional approach of this agreement and to the distribution they have in different regions in morocco. we are going to renew the protocol for a transitional period of one year just to find out if we can go with it or not. this is the way we are moving, very cautiously, towards this direction.
member of the commission. − on the 3% r&d intensity target the state of innovation urgency in europe calls for the support of smart growth and a commitment to tackle societal challenges. the innovation union scoreboard shows that the eu is losing ground to the united states and japan, while brazil and china are closing the gap with the eu. the 3% r&d intensity target has a crucial contribution to make in meeting this challenge. the european council invited member states to set ambitious and realistic national targets, taking into account the initial level of r&d investment and the key structural characteristics of their economies. last year member states and the commission engaged in bilateral dialogues. nearly all of the member states have now set national r&d intensity targets, to be finalised in their national reform programmes by the end of april 2011. on 12 january this year, the commission adopted the communication on the annual growth survey. it comprises the list of national r&d targets, which are generally both ambitious and realistic and marks the start of a new cycle of coordination in this field. an assessment of the national research and innovation policies and achievements will be performed, aiming at identifying the main bottlenecks impeding growth and recovery in a post-crisis scenario where the financial constraints are still effective. an excellent research base is vital if the 3% r&d intensity target is to be achieved and if europe is to become more innovative. europe will need at least one million more research jobs if the r&d intensity target of 3% is to be reached by 2020. the number of new researchers required is significantly higher as many researchers will retire over the period. research excellence by universities and also, of course, by industry will benefit the wider society. progress is related to the high quality of higher education institutions. the innovation union scoreboard uses internationally recognised indicators to benchmark the performance of europe against that of our competitors. three of these indicators are: new doctoral graduates per 1 000 population aged 25 to 34, quantitative, international scientific co-publications per million population and scientific publications among the top 10% most cited publications worldwide as a percentage of total scientific publications of the country, both qualitative. the united states has increased its lead in international co-publications and is now 37% above the eu level. pending the results in june of a feasibility study, the commission will support an independent multidimensional international ranking to benchmark the performance of higher education institutions. this study will cover performances, not only in the field of research, but also in other important fields such as innovation, education, regional engagement and internationalisation. the multidimensional character of this concept will allow students, policy makers and the universities themselves to select the dimensions and underlying indicators of interest to them and make their own personalised ranking tailored to their needs. stakeholders are actively involved in all stages of this feasibility project.
commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. but i remember that about eight years ago, in 2003, in our planning then, in the lisbon strategy, we were saying about the same thing, namely that we had to rely on innovation, on research in order to be able to have a more competitive economy. you are beyond time, commissioner, and i think you have the experience to answer us: what makes you think that this time, in the new strategy we have for 2020, we will succeed and not have similar results to the previous strategy which ultimately failed pathetically.
member of the commission. − what is different now from what was promised and committed to in lisbon? i think the first thing is that innovation and research is at the heart of european policy now. we have a commitment, not just from the commission and from the member states and the parliament, but also from the european council. we have very strong monitoring in place, which will be done diligently. we have 34 ‘innovation union’ commitments — for which different colleagues of mine have responsibility — where we monitor on a regular basis what the improvement is, what the changes are, what the development is and what has been delivered or, if it has not been delivered, why not. every year we hope to have an ‘innovation convention’ at which we bring the stakeholders together to sit down and look at progress over the previous year. so we have very strict monitoring, which i think is probably where we failed — or did not achieve what we set out to achieve — in lisbon. we also have the annual growth survey and will now have the national reform programmes, where member states will set down very clearly what their targets are going to be and how they hope they hope to attain those targets. i think that is a step forward that was needed. on the modernisation of universities, this is a big issue that, i think, faces all the member states of the eu. it is not good enough to have one or two universities in a number of member states that are up there near the top of the tree. we need to modernise our university system at all levels in the eu and we need to avoid the kind of duplication that has been referred to, where each university up to now might have felt that they had the capacity to have a centre of excellence for every single faculty. that is not possible or cost-effective, and it involves a great deal of fragmentation and duplication, which is exactly what we are trying to avoid. but let us remember that the commission does not have competence in this area. so what we can do – and what commissioner vassiliou is doing assiduously – is explain to the member states that we cannot continue the policies of the past. we have to change; we have to decide which are the areas in which we will have – or a particular university will have – a centre of excellence, and we have to put in place a real programme of university modernisation generally throughout the union.
member of the commission. − i will try to be attentive to the interpreters. a precondition for carrying out the ex-post auditing activity is the availability of a sufficiently important number of cost claims submitted by the beneficiaries. for the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, or ‘fp 7 2007-2013’, the first reporting period takes place 18 months after the start of the project. as a consequence, the number of fp 7 cost claims available to be audited reached critical mass only in 2010. moreover, the commission’s control strategy for research is designed to provide reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of research expenditure on a multiannual basis over the whole period of the framework programme. as of 31 december last year the commission has closed 345 fp 7 audits, covering 432 participations in fp 7 projects. in the same period, financial corrections amounting to eur 4.482 million due to errors were proposed as a result of auditing eur 88.633.047 million of fp 7 contributions. research framework programmes are implemented mainly through cost- sharing grants based on the reimbursement of eligible actual costs. the main risk is that beneficiaries include ineligible costs in their costs statements. the risk is exacerbated by the conflict between the eligibility criteria and the usual cost-accounting practices of certain beneficiaries, in particular the requirement for beneficiaries to allocate personnel and indirect costs to projects while deducting various items considered ineligible for eu co-financing. in view of this the commission issued, in april 2010, a communication putting forward possibilities for the simplification of research funding rules and procedures. simplification and clarification of rules and procedures can reduce the scope for error and increase assurance of the regularity of expenditure, but also facilitate the participation of researchers in the framework programmes and the achievement of eu research policy objectives. following the overall consensus on a number of issues that could still be implemented under the current overall legal framework, on 24 january this year the commission took short-term simplification actions comprising concrete measures with immediate and retroactive effect on fp7 projects.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her detailed reply, but i still note that with a sample of 0.4% the failures amount to 4% or eur 50 billion and 2 million. i hope the model is not linear, and when we run 4% checks, we don't find 40% failures. i also understand that it is very difficult to ask the commissioner to simplify the procedures for the seventh and to provide for simplification for the eighth, while at the same time asking for more detailed controls. that seems counterintuitive, but i don't think it is. i think it is a good thing that we are all interested in research and we know that it is the only way to save europe and the member states.
member of the commission. − the criteria are the same for all countries. it is true that owing to geographical conditions, sometimes cities like milan in italy have a more difficult job to reach the same criteria than other cities. however, it is of the utmost importance that all citizens in the european union be guaranteed the same level of health and protection. that is the issue in this respect. of course, if there are issues that are locally or regionally specific, we award attention to that and we do try to address these issues in a collaborative way with the authorities so that we find the proper solutions. our aim is always to target and find a solution – to be strictly helpful and helpfully strict, if you like. concerning the second question, we normally do not give specific recommendations to any of the cities or regions, simply because we believe that the authorities there are much better placed and know the situation better than we do. we do check if compliance is met, but normally the kind of standardised approach that gives good results is a mixture of various measures, some which are more short-term orientated and others are more structural.
member of the commission. − the commission is putting the finishing touches on the new eu biodiversity strategy, which will provide a framework for action to tackle biodiversity loss over the next decade. we are aiming for adoption in early may. because the draft strategy is still under internal consultation within the commission, i am not able to provide many details on its contents. i can however reassure you that it responds to both the eu’s ambitious mandate set by the council last year and to the global commitments the eu signed up to in nagoya last october in the framework of the convention on biological diversity. the strategy will be developed around six sub-targets focusing on tackling some of the main drivers of biodiversity loss and the pressures exerted on biodiversity: nature conservation, restoration and green infrastructure, agriculture and forestry, fisheries, invasive species and the european union’s contribution to global biodiversity. the strategy will benefit substantially from implementation of the eu’s existing legislation, including effective and adequately financed management of the natura 2000 network. it will also be essential to consider how reforms to the common agricultural policy and common fisheries policy and the future cohesion policy can help deliver the necessary support for this strategy. the 2020 eu headline target requires the halting of biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystems and the services they provide. i can therefore assure you that the strategy will contain actions geared to reaching this objective. this will include actions aimed at stepping up implementation of the birds and habitats directives and ensuring significant steps are taken towards achieving a favourable conservation status for species and habitats of european importance. as regards the implementation and enforcement of the eu’s environmental legislation more generally, the commission intends to come out with a new communication on this issue later this year. the aim is not to replace existing relevant communications but rather to improve upon them by focusing on the overall general structure and knowledge-base that underpins the implementation of this environmental acquis. in the context of this initiative we will recall in detail all possible options for strengthening monitoring and control capabilities at eu level and the national inspection systems. it should be recognised that the eu’s legal framework on environmental inspection has already been improved during the last years, notably with the adoption of a recommendation providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states as well as the inclusion of various provisions in sectoral environmental legislation. the communication is still under preparation and the precise content has not yet been agreed on. we will hold stakeholder consultations, including with parliament through its relevant committees, so that its members will have the opportunity to express their views and give us their input.
thank you, commissioner, for the detailed answer. we are looking forward to seeing the new eu biodiversity strategy and, of course, parliament will have a lot of ideas and we are going to elaborate on this. going further into the issue we discussed about nagoya and the strategy, could you please comment on how we are progressing in implementing the nagoya decisions and in particular the abs protocol? what progress has been made? what are the deadlines there? on marine-protected areas, have we had any progress? there is special mention of this in the nagoya targets. how are we progressing there? also, you mentioned that there will be efforts for biodiversity in the cap, which is one of the instruments we have to protect biodiversity, but parliament has also asked for protection of wilderness and road-free areas. finally, we need more communication on the natura 2000 areas, especially for farmers. what are you planning to do on this?
member of the commission. − concerning nagoya and how we are getting on, things are developing pretty well with regard to the abs, so there is no problem. there are small problems with translation but we are well on track concerning the substance, and we are already planning to start preparation of the legislation after it has been signed so that we can then go on to the ratification process. it is taking some time, but i do not see any serious obstacles. concerning marine protected areas, we are lagging behind still. we are trying to push things ahead, and owing to the commitments we made in nagoya we will have to do more in europe than at present – also owing to natura 2000 itself and the commitments which we have made. on the cap and natura 2000 financing, i am trying to do my best to ensure that this is represented very well in the first pillar and in the third pillar and that biodiversity gets proper attention in the future common agricultural policy. commissioner cioloş, commissioner hedegaard and myself prepared a joint letter which we sent to the last environmental council of ministers. in that letter we agreed on the issues, and on the direction in which we want to go. on the question by mr posselt, the whole natura 2000 protection story as agreed is currently protecting 18% approximately of european land in the shape of the so-called natura 2000 areas, and then we have two directives. one is the birds directive and another one is the habitats directive, under which it is clearly specified what is protected, how, on which level and so on. so basically it is pretty broad legislation and is not only covering some specific endangered and disappearing species or other. we want to act in such a way that we have broad protection, but the fact is that a lot of species in eu areas which have been identified as being endangered are in a pretty bad condition, so we would certainly have to do more. on the question of targets, the answer is pretty simple. at this moment we should not focus on the question of lowering targets, we should rather focus on the serious question of the implementation of natura 2000, which means preparing the management plans and reserving enough financing. this will not be easy in this situation, but it is certainly a kind of financing for the future.
member of the commission. − the new waste framework directive has set up a five-step hierarchy for waste management. waste prevention is regarded as the most desirable option, followed by preparing waste for re-use, recycling and other ways of recovery, including energy recovery, with disposal such as landfill as the last resort. deviations from the hierarchy for specific waste streams are possible. however, member states departing from the hierarchy would need to provide a sound justification. therefore, waste disposal in landfills that lie at the bottom of the waste hierarchy must be considered by the member states as the least favourable waste management option. high purity of waste materials, such as paper and glass, is a prerequisite for the use of waste as a secondary raw material by manufacturing industries. that is why separate collection of recyclable waste streams at source is usually the most favourable method of waste collection. under the waste framework directive, member states are obliged to introduce by 2015 separate collections for paper, metal, plastic and glass. again there is certain flexibility for member states to adapt their waste collection systems to the specific national circumstances, notably in cases where highly efficient and advanced sorting technologies are available. in the absence of such technologies, however, separate collection at source is the cheapest and the easiest method to obtain high quality secondary raw materials from waste. greece faces serious problems with illegal landfill disposal and was condemned, as you know, by the court in 2005 due to the huge number of illegal landfills that had been operating in its territory. this issue has not been resolved yet. nevertheless, in december 2010, the greek authorities provided an action plan according to which all the legal landfills will be closed by the end of june this year. the commission welcomes this plan, including the construction of new landfill sites, under the condition that this is unavoidable as a last resort option to maintain the waste disposal network that meets mandatory sanitary standards in line with european legal requirements. the construction of landfills complying with the standards of the eu landfill directive is already progress compared to the practice of illegal dumping of waste. the commission urges the greek authorities to complete their planning and the construction of the landfill sites – programmes that benefit already from eu funds. however, greece must steadily go beyond these measures and move away from landfill as a predominant waste management option towards a modern waste management policy based on waste recovery and recycling. according to the latest eurostat statistics, in greece around 82% of municipal waste is land-filled whereas the average in the european union is 38%. additionally, the performance of the recycling sector in greece is very low and only 17% of municipal waste is recycled. the implementation of the waste directive is a top priority both for the commission and for me personally. we will monitor the national waste policies through the assessment of the member states’ waste management plans. we are waiting for an updated waste management plan from greece. in addition, we are carefully monitoring the implementation of the greek action plan and the process of closing all the illegal landfills, including the plan for the eu-funded projects. we will also monitor the use of eu funding to ensure that the projects to be financed are consistent with the objectives and requirements defined in our waste legislation. in the case of greece, it is essential to reduce landfill and to increase recycling rates through separate collection and recyclable materials. proper waste management should be seen as an opportunity as it can create business and jobs across the country. it is also essential to achieve the new resource sufficiency objectives through the application of best practices. finally, tomorrow i am flying to greece, where i will be on a two-day full visit and we will, of course, discuss all these questions in detail there.
madam president, the commissioner's latest report gives me some hope. so, commissioner, since you are going to greece tomorrow, visit an area near athens where for four months now there has been a daily clash between the residents and the police forces who are camped there, with injuries and other incidents, concerning the chump installation, as you have analysed it, and given that we have to close the landfills. the question is: if this is the worst of the acceptable solutions, why are you accepting environmental impact studies when in many facilities, including the one you may be visiting, we actually have waste that ends up in streams. this is a scandal and the damage to the environment - if you do not intervene, if you do not stop this economic scandal, because these facilities are co-financed by the european union - will not be avoided. i would ask you to intervene immediately, because things are not as theoretical as you have analysed them, and thank you anyway.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, parliament is called upon today to discuss the report i have drawn up on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the rules of procedure of the european parliament relating to the statute for european political parties and their financing by the european parliament. although there is a similar regulation, so far european political parties do not enjoy a status worthy of the treaty of lisbon and the european union, namely a status as defined in article 10 (4) of the treaty of lisbon, which refers to political parties at european level that contribute to the formation of european political awareness and to the expression of the will of the citizens of europe. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the european union's development. that is why, after accepting the report of the secretary-general on the financing of political parties and his recommendation on the establishment of a regime, as well as the recommendation of the european parliament in the previous report of 2003 on the need for such a regime - but the treaty of lisbon had not yet been adopted at that time - and finally the decision of the bureau of 10 january, the committee on constitutional affairs, after serious consultation with all political parties, presidents and secretaries at european level, as well as distinguished professors of economics and constitutional law, and after consultation with the international transparency and the court of auditors of the european union, which approved this report, demands that the european commission actually submit a proposal for a european political party regime. the report also states that the system will have to meet certain criteria, namely that it must have national parties as members in at least seven countries, or regional parties, provided that the regional authorities in those countries have legislative powers. at the same time, there will be a distinction between the recognition of european political parties and their funding. in order to be funded, they must have elected at least one member of the european parliament. of course, parties will be able to register individuals, ordinary citizens, as members, in addition to having parties as members. the proposal covers not only european political parties but also their foundations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is a very important one, and it is a very important one. the european parliament has discussed the matter at length and has come to this proposal with only minor variations, which are, of course, reflected in the amendments. in essence, it concluded that it was a question of strengthening democracy, of increasing the presence of citizens in the european institutions by creating such a system, and, of course, as regards financing, it was stipulated that 10% should come from own resources and that there was a possibility for donors to increase the amount of eur 12 000 to eur 25 000, which was the case until now. i thank you, mr president, and i ask the house, of course, to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs giannaku, on her balanced and correct report, and i believe that the development of political parties with a european perspective that goes beyond national structures is crucial for mobilising public opinion in the union and creating an interest in european citizens to participate in society. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the decisionmaking process is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the european union is being tested, in addition to the economic crisis, by a crisis of democracy and a crisis of legitimacy. the policies implemented anger and frustrate citizens, the decision-making processes alienate them from participation, as the recent european elections have shown. the european parliament has always been a party of the people, and it is the european parliament that has always been the party of the people. the rules of political and legal recognition and the necessary funding must therefore facilitate their action, allow them to develop their policies and their alternatives freely - that is the essence of democracy - and be free from external constraints, political or economic. i therefore have reservations about certain points in the report, in so far as they could be used as restrictions on the free and independent organisation and action of political parties. the functioning, action and organisation of parties must be a matter of their own choice and not under the pretext of a dominant political association.
the report also calls for the creation of a european political party system, based on the european union's own legislation. the european union - by its legislation defining a uniform way of structure and operation for european parties, by its interference in their internal functioning, in their statutes and political programme - under the pretext of allegedly relaxing the financial regime, opens a pandora's box of economic and, by extension, political sanctions against political parties, that is, more strenuous control of their functioning and action by the european union, exerting pressure on national political parties to integrate them more deeply into the anti-people policy of the european union, attacking those parties that question the anti-people policy, the strategy of the european union, the authority of capital. the european parliament has been the guardian of the treaty of rome since the beginning of the twentieth century, and it is the european parliament which is the guardian of the treaty of rome. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i start my concluding remarks by thanking once again mrs giannakou for her report because i think that this debate has very clearly proven that the concern and the issues she raised in her report are legitimate; they are at the heart of european integration and of its democratic nature. the exchange of views clearly demonstrated as well how sensitive these issues are and, therefore, if this house approves this proposed legislative resolution tomorrow, the commission will respect its commitment stemming from the framework agreement and will respond to this resolution within three months. however, as you may have felt from this debate, it is quite clear that this would be a very sensitive, elaborate, political and legal task because there are a lot of issues that are both legally and politically very sensitive. our preliminary analyses on the statute of the european political parties is in this direction but, of course, we now need to study very carefully the legal basis, potential legal form and, as we see now, we would most probably need a separate legal act on this issue. that is because the revising of the regulation from 2003-2004 would simply not be sufficient because it targeted the funding issue and not the issue of the statute of the political groups. so this would be one angle, which we would have to look at very carefully. several speakers raised the question of amending the financial regulation. here, again, we would need to look very carefully at the requirements, scope and the timing and we certainly took very careful note of the calls in this report for more flexibility. as you know, we already took some steps in 2007 and we will examine these proposals very carefully. however, it is quite clear that it might be very difficult to agree on the changes and have them incorporated into the current revision of the financial regulation and its implementing rules. of course, parliament is a legislator and is free to raise this issue in the current ongoing interinstitutional process, if it so wishes. my thanks again, mr president, and we are certainly looking forward to the ensuing debate on this issue once the resolution has been adopted and the commission’s response has been prepared.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for his words and commitments, and also the colleagues who supported this report. first, i think it is important to reiterate that as far as the funding process is concerned, the parties are not asking for more money and that the amendment of the 2007 rules has resulted in greater transparency, as transparency international itself has acknowledged. secondly, it is legitimate for parties to demand a european status and alignment of their status with the european institutions and with european legislation, and this is of course to the satisfaction of the citizens. finally, mr president, the creation of a safe and transparent environment for the operation and financing of political parties is a profoundly democratic act. we need a european space for active political parties that will put citizens at the centre of the union and help them in their daily lives. this will mean more participation, more democracy and ultimately more europe.
mr president, commissioner, do you realize that you hold the future of europe in your hands? i believe that today's debate is of enormous importance for the future of the european union, for the future of the european citizens, for the future of the euro. because it is very difficult for european citizens in the 27 member states to bear and watch the austerity measures imposed on them if they cannot understand the value and importance of the internal market. so today, i think it is up to this debate whether next year's 20th anniversary of the internal market will be a celebration or a commemoration. i think there's a triangle: citizens, business, government. this triangle has to be balanced. at the moment, the branch, the side that deals with the civilians, is extremely weak. the amendment is not a new one, but it is a new one, and i think that is why we have tabled this amendment. in conclusion, mr president, mr delors said that no one can fall in love with the internal market. you make her loveable!
in writing. to cope with today's unfavourable conditions and to compete with fast-growing economies, europe needs to invest in areas that aim to create a competitive advantage. the common market is europe's greatest competitive advantage and we must exploit it accordingly. the recession is also driving the member states of europe towards deeper economic integration, which we must exploit to achieve growth in the european economy, making it more competitive both domestically and internationally. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the role of enterprises in creating a functioning single market must also be recognised.
in writing. we are at a critical juncture in which the eu is facing an economic and social crisis. at this stage it is essential for the eu to concentrate its efforts on growth and the creation of investment and jobs. the extension of the eu's powers in the field of foreign direct investment by the lisbon treaty allows us to lay the foundations for the creation of a single european policy in this area. we must give european businesses the tools they need to make safe and quality investments abroad. protecting our businesses abroad must be our priority. as the eu is the most 'open' market in the world, it is necessary to establish a framework of protection for our businesses and the appropriate conditions to strike a balance with our main trading partners so that european businesses enjoy similar conditions of competition. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is moving in the right direction towards achieving the above objectives.
in writing. the report gives priority to the protection of all eu investors. it also stresses that new investment promoted by the eu must be sustainable, respectful of the environment and encourage good quality working conditions. finally, a list of countries is being drawn up which will be the preferential partners. i believe that the above reasons will help to create a strong international investment policy for the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr kader arif.
in writing. i voted against, despite the fact that the report proposes a solution to the problem of european political parties functioning as ngos based in belgium. the european parties, with their own ideological and political characteristics, must acquire a clear legal personality. under certain conditions they can help to activate citizens and to demand decisions that benefit the people, not the economically powerful. however, there are reservations about certain points in the report insofar as they could be used as restrictions on the free and independent organisation and action of european parties. their internal functioning and organisation, as well as their political action, must depend solely on their own political choices, without external constraints. the rules governing political and legal recognition of political parties and the necessary funding should facilitate their action so that they can freely formulate alternative policies, which is the essence of democracy. they should also ensure that they are free from restrictive political frameworks and powerful economic interests in expressing the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i agree with what has been said until now and also that we have to think about the moratorium tomorrow, as mr chichester suggested. however, i want to add the following: we are entering a new era, a new world. all natural disasters that have taken place in the 21st century have been mega-disasters: mega-fires, mega-earthquakes and mega-sea tides. how can we protect ourselves from, and avoid, the nuclear threat arising from these disasters? we can see that we risk ending up with mega-killings as well due to these catastrophes. in this parliament, we condemn crimes against humanity. i consider tepco’s efficiency as a company to be a new form of crime against humanity: no transparency, no precautions, and nothing is done about the workers who are fighting the problem. i urge all of you to think about this new crime against society that we are going to face in the 21st century.
mr president, it has taken us 25 years to forget chernobyl and i fear that the disaster in japan is not enough to remind us of it. we are systematically blaming japan. it's like we're saying it's japan and not nuclear power that wasn't safe. we are starting safety tests for our nuclear facilities and again we insist that there is safe nuclear technology. we need to close down immediately all nuclear installations over 30 years old and to stop any thought of building new ones. we need a nuclear tax immediately, which will enable us to map out the full environmental cost of nuclear energy. we need to invest in increasing the efficiency of photovoltaics and really invest in increasing the efficiency of all renewable energy sources. the commission has the legislative initiative and the responsibility for our action or the consequences of inaction is yours.
in writing. the fukushima tragedy has brought us, in a particularly painful way, into a new era of nuclear energy. at the same time, the energy challenges of the 21st century, as well as the risks arising from the ageing and increased unreliability of many nuclear power stations, have changed the facts and require a revision of the euratom treaty, which has remained essentially unchanged for over half a century. in order to have full supervision - at european level - in a sector characterized by lack of transparency, it would be necessary to integrate euratom into the european union and to subject nuclear safety issues to the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (com (90) 040 final - c4-0414/98-98/0116 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-0414/98-98/0116 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-0414/98-98/0116 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-0414/98-98/0116 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-0414/98-98/012 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-0414/98-98/012 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-04148/98-98/012 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-04148 (cod)) (com (90) 0405 - c4-04149/99) (com (90) 0405 - c4-04158 it is considered self-evident that the new strict framework should also be followed by the countries neighbouring the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, we need a concrete objective to be decided at the istanbul meeting and that objective should be to reduce the number of least developed countries to half of what it is today. it seems obvious, but in the last 30 years only three of these countries have managed to break out of the category of least developed countries. to achieve this, we must meet our commitments and contribute 0.15 to 0.20% of our gross national product (gnp) each year to development aid to these countries. it is equally important to ensure policy coherence for development. we cannot give money to these countries and then - in effect - steal it from them through unfair trade agreements between the european union and them. we must pay our monetary debt, and that also means investing in these countries, both for their adaptation and to deal with climate change, and for our accumulated debt from the injustices of our common agricultural policy. to do this we must promote the food sovereignty of these countries by supporting traditional agricultural practices, local resources, local crops, local markets and also prevent the speculative attacks, land grabbing and seed monopolies that threaten all of us, but even more so these weak countries. (the president accepted the question on a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, mr deva is right. the european union's fisheries agreements with third countries are largely a matter for in-depth review. the agreements are necessary, but it is also necessary that when the european union concludes these fisheries agreements with these countries, it does so in the most sustainable way possible. but we also need to consider whether the money we give in exchange for fisheries is sufficient and whether it is used as development aid, ultimately helping these countries to get out of the category of least developed countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that this interesting debate shows that we all share the same objectives. this is also reflected in the joint motion for a resolution presented by the political groups. in particular, i would like to mention the following main objectives that we all share: first of all that the conference should be results-oriented and that the european union should fulfil its commitments. the object of this is to support countries, so that they can graduate from least-developed country status. we have undertaken commitments in terms of market access and debt alleviation, as well as reserving a share of official development assistance for the least-developed countries. clearly, policy coherence for development should contribute to all policy areas in support of the least-developed countries’ fight against poverty and priority should be given, as ms stihler quite rightly highlighted, to food security, agriculture and infrastructure. indeed, as mr deva suggested, trade plays a very important role. we have all recognised the least-developed countries’ primary responsibility for their own development, which is why a more efficient tax system and good governance in tax matters are needed to enhance their domestic resources. finally, even if they bear practically no responsibility for climate change, the least-developed countries will be hit the hardest by it and we have an obligation to help them adapt to this. in conclusion, this house has always given great support for the cause of the least-developed countries and i am sure that this will continue.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, concerning the sum total of the oda, i would like to underline that, since 2002 when establishing its commitment for the monterey conference, the council has reiterated the need to mobilise all other available sources of financing for development – primarily domestic resources complemented by viable innovative financing mechanisms – and support from developed countries, the private sector and emerging economies. in the latest conclusions of april 2011 the council pointed out that the eu is seriously considering proposals for innovative financing mechanisms with significant revenue generation potential, with a view to ensuring predictable financing for development, especially for the poorest and most vulnerable countries. i agree with commissioner füle’s opinion concerning the relevance of keeping to our commitments in the european union and also his comments concerning the importance of increasing the possibility of trade between ldcs and the european union.
i have received six motions for resolutionsee minutes.tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 april 2011 at noon.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the 2010 progress report on iceland.
i got a little confused there, mr campbell bannerman, with the april fool thing. it is 6 april today, i just double checked, but i suppose you can declare april fool’s day any as day you want!
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s discussion has proved productive in identifying the steps iceland needs to take in order to ensure a positive outcome in the accession negotiations. as acknowledged in the draft resolution we discussed today and in the commission progress report of last november, iceland is at an advanced stage of meeting membership obligations and has achieved a great deal, but it needs to deliver more on a number of well-defined issues. some of you have mentioned mackerel. while this issue relates primarily to the management, by the coastal states concerned, of the mackerel stock in the north-east atlantic, let me say this: we are disappointed at the lack of progress in the latest consultations. substantial differences of opinion between the parties remain – particularly between the european union and norway on the one hand and the faroe islands and iceland on the other – with regard to their respective shares. the sustainability of this resource is important for our fishing industry, and the commission will continue to explore all possible avenues in order to find a balanced solution for the mackerel stock, in cooperation with the coastal states. iceland is now entering a decisive stage in which the pace of progress towards eu membership depends on its own determination. i am positive that, with our joint support and, most importantly, with the involvement and support of its people, iceland is capable of making real progress in the direction of the european union.
the president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! thank you for this discussion. a great many issues have been raised which i am confident will be properly addressed by the commission in the accession negotiations and we can take maximum care to resolve them. i would like to inform you that i plan to attend the iceland-eu association council at the end of april. and i'm confident that we'll get first-hand information from the icelandic authorities on these issues. it has never been in doubt that agriculture, especially fisheries, or even icesave, is the most difficult sector. but i trust that all these issues will be dealt with in a very transparent manner by the commission. and these are the questions that meps will always be informed about during the accession negotiations. and in closing, i would like to say one thing: i am very pleased that during the debate, not one of the speakers questioned that iceland has a fully functioning system of democratic institutions, a political culture, and we all acknowledged that. and i'm sure that the icelandic people will make a very responsible decision about whether to join the european union. let them handle it. it's their job. our job is to make that connection possible, and if they choose to, we welcome them accordingly. thank you very much, mr. president.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2010 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are in favour of enlarging the european union to include all the balkan countries, if they so wish. but, from the enlargement process so far, i would like to stress that cooperation with these countries, and the integration process - and especially in conditions of economic crisis - should contribute to sustainable development, to the economic and social well-being of the citizens, both of the enlargement countries and of the union, and not to the imposition of economic policies that plunge countries into recession, increase unemployment and undermine social rights. i also believe, commissioner, that the accession process should be conducted in accordance with international law and international procedures, in this case in accordance with and supporting the process of finding a mutually acceptable solution to the name issue under the auspices of the un. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the political forces of fyrom must take the necessary steps and avoid practices and rhetoric that exacerbate the problem. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, mr zoran thaler, rapporteur for the report on fyrom, is no longer with us following the well-known serious complaints in the sunday times. i think he enjoys the presumption of innocence. however, in the light of the allegations against it, this report on fyrom does not enjoy the presumption of reliability. in my letter to the president of the house on 22 march i asked that the report not be put to the vote until the findings of the investigations into the file opened for conciliation had been made available. i therefore call on every member to abstain from this vote in order to preserve the integrity and credibility of the house. i, personally, will do it. however, i must say that: i do not agree with mrs győri's views, but i do think that mr füle and the deputy rapporteur are realistic. they point out that the country is at the mercy of corruption, with no plans on the horizon, and relations between the various ethnicities, but also the dispute with greece over the name issue remains. this point in the report must therefore be taken seriously.
mr president, i have heard the commissioner, and this time the commission's report is much more critical than the previous one, and we all know the internal situation in the country. however, i have heard colleagues with unprecedented theories. that is, because greece is in an economic crisis, it should say yes to what others want. i would like to point out to my colleagues that no matter how much greece is in economic crisis, no government will accept to agree in the council to the opening of negotiations and the proof of greece's good faith has been shown when it has accepted to be a candidate country, this country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to say to my colleagues that there are many countries which have prevented other countries - for a long time - from becoming members of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, a few days ago mr gruevski's government called for early elections. amidst outrage over the violation of press independence, the independence of the judiciary and the skopje 2014 urban renewal project, at a time when political dialogue has stopped, mr gruevski is attempting a flight forward. if to this unfavourable internal environment is added the unresolved name issue, the country's european prospects are seriously tested. the greek government has repeatedly demonstrated its desire to close this chapter once and for all by increasing bilateral contacts at the level of prime ministers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, mr gruevski, playing electoral games, is trying to convince the international public that greece is the one inventing new facts on the name issue, thus continually putting obstacles in the way of resolving the dispute. the responsibility for the european future of the country lies with the government of skopje and it is called upon to assume its responsibilities.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. we also want, along with the greek members of the european parliament, to see the well-known name issue of that country resolved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that these two interrelated objectives will be achieved if we support the immediate opening of accession negotiations with the european union tomorrow? i can assure you that they will have the opposite effect: we will give the gruevski government an incentive for greater intransigence, and therefore lead to a prolongation of the deadlock in the name negotiations and, consequently, to a further freezing of the country's accession prospects. it is therefore a wrong message, a wrong policy and a wrong move if we adopt the report tomorrow, and that is why i shall vote against it tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, as acknowledged in the draft resolution we are discussing today, and in the commission progress report of november 2010, the country has sufficiently met the political criteria. however, it needs to maintain the momentum of the reform process in all areas. it is a critical issue indeed. as the discussion has shown, we all agree on this important point. as i have said already, we are at a critical juncture with the country. it must continue on the path towards europe as the rest of the region moves forward. the leadership of the country needs to focus on the future for the benefit of its citizens. they will have all our support in this endeavour. let me make one more remark which i think is important for the country we are debating and for the whole region. it is not for the first time we have seen a party being represented in a parliament walking out and boycotting the work of the parliament. let me tell you my personal view; it is unacceptable. i think all the aspirant countries and candidate countries need to use the democratic institutions to strengthen them and not undermine them. they need to learn that democracy needs to be exercised within the democratic institutions and not outside. i hope very much that you will join me in sending a powerful message to the countries in the region that the political parties, whether they are from the right or left, should use the inclusive character of the process to work together on the european agenda and not take their argument to the street.
the president of the council. - mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, let me address one aspect, namely the question of naming the country. and let me start by saying that i deeply understand the dissatisfaction of the members, even their anger, over this matter. there's nothing worse than being stuck in a single issue and not being able to acknowledge it, even though you've got the power. i must say that i consider the maintenance of good neighbourly relations to be of fundamental importance, and that enlargement can only be envisaged along these lines. this should include the possibility of a mutually acceptable solution to the conflict through negotiations under the auspices of the united nations. the council welcomes the ongoing high-level dialogue and looks forward to its result. all attention is now focused on the case pending before the international court of justice, which heard the arguments in question until 21-30 march. a final decision is expected in september 2011. the lack of a solution to the name dispute and the prolonged negotiations, which are currently unsuccessful, cannot be used as a basis for a slowdown in reforms in the country. the hungarian presidency, even before the start of the presidency, had in-depth bilateral talks with the parties concerned and we encouraged them to find a solution. they have to find this solution! everyone else can help here, but it's up to them. so we're constantly encouraging this dialogue and finding solutions. i am very sorry that we cannot make progress on this matter under the hungarian presidency. as i said, this is not just about the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but the whole region, the courtyard of the european union, which should no longer be a courtyard, but an integral part of the union. it's important that we move forward. thank you very much, mr. president.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on côte d'ivoire.
our services have informed me, and i think it is important to know this, that at the beginning of the year the vice-president/high representative’s office sent a list of the plenaries in which she would be able to attend. it was known from then that she could not be here this time, so obviously if we have a debate that involves issues like that someone else has to represent her, and that should be clear. we now move on to the catch-the-eye procedure. there are three speakers.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - the house, the members, the ladies and gentlemen. i would like to quote a famous hungarian poet: "among murderers, an accomplice is a mute". when we see thousands of people dying and millions more fleeing, we cannot be satisfied with a peaceful rhetoric, but must act. and before anyone draws the iraqi parallel with the libyan or the ivory coast insurgency, i want to remind everyone that this action is not invoking iraq, it's not even invoking afghanistan, it's invoking rwanda, it's invoking kosovo, and it's no coincidence that we've talked so much in the last few weeks about the fact that we have a responsibility and a right to protect civilians, civilians, which we define as the "right and responsibility to protect". accordingly, i would like to reiterate that yes, mr. gbagbo has lost this fight, he is alone in his bunker awaiting his fate. i would also like to emphasize that in the current situation the legal basis for this action is indisputable. the un security council adopted resolution 1975 and this resolution gives a very clear mandate for action. thirdly, i would like to emphasize that crimes committed cannot remain in the dark without investigation. it is a great pleasure that president ouattara, who is legally elected, and the prime minister have agreed and clearly support an international investigation by the un into the massacres committed. so the investigation of these mass killings is now part of the settlement and a very clear prerequisite. as for the european union's contribution, echo has already put forward a human rights package of eur 30 million, and as i indicated in my introductory speech, the european union will be putting together a package in the near future to support the economic and institution building objectives of the legitimately elected president and government.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 8.35 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his comments. it is true that the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership have been decisive steps in the attempt to deepen relations with our neighbours to the east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis in the countries of north africa, which are included in the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, rightly monopolizes international attention, but the eastern dimension has faced and is facing similar challenges. the events in belarus are clearly a message and a bell for the european union about the responsibilities it must assume in such cases. we need a long-term strategic plan for growth and stabilisation in the region. the revision of the european neighbourhood policy - and in particular the eastern dimension - must therefore reflect the increased political commitments of our partners. it must be clear from the outset that the promotion and respect of democratic processes, the rule of law, fundamental human rights and the protection of minorities are important points in the assessment of the course of our partners. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the european union was founded on these principles, and it has a moral obligation to continue to act in this way in the future. in this context, the review of the european neighbourhood policy must give a new impetus to the promotion of a genuine political framework for cooperation with our eastern partners.
madam president, i think that commissioner füle is handling the matter of the supervision of the european neighbourhood policy correctly, which as we know covers 16 countries from the african subcontinent to the russian subcontinent. the european neighbourhood policy, however, has been tested by recent developments in the arab world, which show the popular discontent with authoritarian regimes and the failure of economic and social reforms in those countries supported by the union. the authoritarian regimes in libya, tunisia and egypt and other countries have been in place for years and we are working with them. now - suddenly of course - we are taking action against them. we must therefore review the strategy of the european neighbourhood policy by promoting democracy, human rights and controlling the funding allocated. the main point, mr president, which must be properly assessed is that young people in these countries are more educated and at the same time unemployed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the neighbourhood policy is undoubtedly a successful policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the difficult economic situation we are facing at the moment must not be an excuse or an excuse not to make it a little stronger. this should apply, in particular, to its southern dimension. the recent dramatic developments, the recent dramatic events in north africa, make this imperative. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we must support civil society in these countries, their democratic action and their demand for greater freedom. the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean, and we must not forget that the mediterranean is sitting on a migrant bomb, which is another reason for supporting stability, democracy and development in these countries through the neighbourhood policy.
madam president, i am submitting a request under rule 177 to adjourn the debate because mr zoran thaler, who is the rapporteur of this report, is no longer with us following the well-known serious complaints in the sunday times. in my view, he is presumed innocent, but in the light of the allegations against him, this report on the fyrom does not have the presumption of credibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore ask that the debate be adjourned, a new rapporteur be appointed and that he be reinstated after three months, in order to preserve the credibility of parliament.
in writing. the economic crisis in the developed world brings trade restrictive measures which in turn lead to economic strangulation of the less developed countries. families at the brink of absolute poverty are seeing food prices rise by 15% in the last six months, while overall food prices have risen by 29% since 2009 according to world bank data. the recent official request by the poor countries to lift the export restriction cannot therefore be ignored. the economic crisis certainly makes negotiations difficult, but tough negotiations on the backs of people living in absolute poverty are at least morally questionable. the resolution, which i voted in favour of, sets out and sets out specific policies to reverse this situation at both national and international level in many areas such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial sector.
in writing. the european united left is in favour of enlargement to the western balkans as a matter of principle, as long as the peoples of these countries want it. i voted against this report because there are problems, among other things, with the proposed economic reforms and the way the name issue is being dealt with. from the experience of enlargement so far, cooperation with the western balkan countries and their accession process, especially in conditions of economic crisis, should contribute to sustainable development and to the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the enlargement countries and of the union. but the report insists on rewarding options such as sending troops to afghanistan and elsewhere, or promoting economic policies such as privatization that plunge into recession, increasing unemployment, social inequalities and the curtailment of social rights. the accession process should also be conducted in accordance with international law and procedures. in this case, on the question of the name, the report should promote respect for and strengthening of the process of finding a commonly acceptable solution under the auspices of the un.
in writing. i voted against this report because, as i said in my previous intervention in the plenary, i believe that this resolution, given the serious allegations against its rapporteur, mr zoran thaler (sunday times, 20 march), who initially tabled the text which was then put to the vote in the committee on foreign affairs on 16 march, that is to say before the revelations against him, may be presumed innocent since a new rapporteur has been appointed, but it is not presumed credible either. it is wrong in my view, for the integrity and credibility of the body, to vote on this resolution before the findings of the investigations following the opening of the conciliation file have been made public.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east is a strong condemnation of the crimes found to have been committed in egypt and libya. the targeting of women in both countries, as well as allegations of 'virginity tests' by the military on women who, after being arrested in tahrir square, were then subjected to torture and rape in order to show later in military courts that they were not virgins, are inhuman and criminal acts that are in complete contradiction to the geneva convention on crimes against humanity and war crimes. in addition to the unequivocal condemnation, the resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission and the governments of the member states to strongly oppose the use of sexual assault, intimidation and targeting of women in libya and egypt and to take concrete and coordinated action to bring an immediate end to these phenomena.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, we must fight for democratic rights everywhere, not just in our neighbourhood, not just in north africa. we must have a permanent european policy towards non-democratically elected governments, towards governments which do not respect democratic rights. mr verhofstadt said that we are hypocrites in a way. it is true, because above trade we often place no other principle. the agreement in mercosur is a typical example, where we are willing to sacrifice 11% of the amazon and millions of european farmers in order to open up trade. the commission is also to blame for all this, commissioner. the commissioner for trade is often indifferent to other european policies. but if we continue like this, we will not stop being hypocrites. the european union must use all the means at its disposal and raise this issue in all contexts, not just human rights. this is not just a matter for mrs ashton, it is also a matter for mr de gucht and the whole commission.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, mugabe's party and its mechanisms are currently, as my colleagues have said, threatening, torturing, beating up anyone who is fighting for democracy, democratic freedoms and the transition to a democratic order in zimbabwe. we are responsible for what happens in africa. in the history of democracy on this continent, we have intervened too many times, especially at the beginning of the creation of these new countries, and we have blocked democratic processes when our own interests were threatened. we therefore have a double duty to help zimbabwe to have a democratically elected government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. from 1967 to 1974 we had a particularly cruel dictatorship, and then any condemnation coming from the council of europe or international organizations gave hope to all the citizens fighting in greece. we must therefore reject any association with illegally appointed zimbabwean representatives and former associates of the mugabe regime and the european union must, together with the countries in its region, guarantee zimbabwe's transition to democracy and the implementation of the kimberley process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the crisis. but it is also important to look at what is happening with regard to our fishermen today. it is true that small fishermen, the coastal fishermen, are the ones who are suffering the most at the moment. we are talking about extending a measure to which, it is true, they have very little access in practice. the economic crisis will lead most mediterranean countries to be unable to use de minimis aid that is a fact. on the other hand, we must look at how we can, through our common fisheries fund, help these countries in serious economic crisis to overcome these problems so that they can help their fishermen. i personally support the extension of de minimis aid under certain conditions: focus on small-scale fishermen, small-scale and coastal fisheries; focus on fishermen who practice sound, sustainable fishing practices; finally, emphasis should be placed on ensuring that funding does not lead to an increase in fishing effort and that these measures do not threaten the environmental and social sustainability of european fisheries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i agree with you, commissioner, we must look at how we can make the european fisheries fund more active, and in particular how we can help those countries which no longer have the resources to participate in an equal way to participate more actively.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 may 2011.
the next item is the report by mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of autonomous emergency trade preferences for pakistan (com (2010) 0552 - c7-0322/2010 - 2010/0289 (cod)) (a7-0069/2011)
mr president, i am obviously in favour of the european union providing humanitarian aid to the extent possible. i understand the commission's reasoning for providing aid in the form of unilateral trade concessions to pakistan. however, i cannot agree with the commission's proposals, which call for the burden to be borne mainly by two industrial sectors in the union, namely the textile industry and bioethanol. i would point out that the european textile industry has been under severe pressure in recent years as a result of the liberalization of trade within the world trade organization. ladies and gentlemen, i have been a member of parliament for four terms in a region whose naoussa region now has one of the highest unemployment rates in europe, and this is due to the effects of globalisation on the textile industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not lost on us that these are two industries in which pakistan is particularly competitive. furthermore, these concessions are not linked to a conditionality clause as would be the case if pakistan were granted gsp+ (general system of preferences+) status. finally, i would like to ask whether these concessions will benefit the flood victims themselves in pakistan. let me doubt it! and to measure the good intentions here, i propose concessions on other industrial products. why specifically in textiles? we would be equally useful against the flood victims of pakistan. in any case, the duration and scope of the concessions should at least be limited and safeguard measures should be provided for as proposed in the epp group's amendments.
mr president, the achievement of an ambitious and mutually beneficial union-india agreement is rightly a central objective of the union's current external trade policy. the rapid conclusion of the negotiations requires intensified consultations in critical areas such as services, non-tariff barriers, public procurement and geographical indications. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new tariffs. as regards access to services, unfortunately, there is no clear commitment from the indian side at present. the union should firmly insist on its demand for enhanced protection of all geographical indications in such an important market as the indian market. india is also an ally of the union in the doha round multilateral negotiations on geographical indications. it is noted that the indian legal system is clear, in particular as regards the registration procedure for geographical indications and their co-existence with trade marks. finally, i should say that the union must show flexibility in response to the request of the indian side to provide protection for indian non-agricultural geographical indications in order to provide protection for european geographical indications.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities is a very good one. however, until such time as it is possible to conclude investment agreements at union level, the legal vacuum, the legal uncertainty as mr caspary said, must be avoided and the necessary legal certainty must be provided for european investors. i would point out that the legislation of the member states of the union, in conjunction with eu legislation, provides all the necessary guarantees for investors from third countries. conversely, ensuring a high level of protection for europeans investing in third countries requires that existing bilateral agreements concluded by individual member states of the union be maintained. the draft regulation, in my view, does not at all provide the necessary legal certainty. i would like to refer in particular to the points concerning: first, the discretion which the commission retains to withdraw authorisation to maintain existing agreements or to authorise the opening of negotiations to amend existing agreements or to conclude new agreements; second, the provision for a review of the legal framework within five years; and third, the extremely time-consuming procedures for concluding new agreements. the amendments adopted by the committee on international trade are, in my view, moving in the right direction. i repeat, the aim should be to maintain the existing ones and to simplify the procedure for concluding and implementing new bilateral agreements.
madam president, today's europe day reminds us of the objectives on which the european union must be based: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the euro pact is moving in the fundamentally wrong direction, as it is exhausted in imposing traditional economic orthodoxy. the attempt to link the euro to permanent cuts in the welfare state and permanent pressures on wages and pensions in the long term threatens to erode not only political cohesion but also the european idea. the greens oppose all this to the pact for sustainable prosperity: complete fiscal convergence, a european budget that is genuinely interventionist and ambitious, taking into account the social and environmental dimensions everywhere. so we want to lay the foundations for moving in a different direction. but no one has the right to make decisive decisions without the citizens! the only solution is a meaningful dialogue and direct appeal to the people. the arrogance of those who have handled the european constitution in the past has prevented us from having the european referendum institutionalized. but we can find alternatives if we have the political will. we owe it to europe and its future!
madam president, today marks the 66th anniversary of the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples on 9 may 1945, the crushing of the fascist imperialist axis of germany, japan and italy and their allies. we honour the dead, the tortured workers, the workers who fought for the crushing of fascism through the lines of the communist parties, the national liberation and anti-fascist movements. the communist parties were the blood donor organisations in the great victory of the peoples against the fascist imperialist axis, with the decisive role played by the heroic struggle of the people of the soviet union at the cost of over 20 million victims, thousands of maimed, destroyed and devastated villages and towns, and the destruction of its economy. it is a brazen challenge to the millions of dead and maimed, victims of fascist and nazi atrocities in greece and throughout europe, that the european union is trying to erase and falsify history: to turn 9 may from a day of anti-fascist victory of the peoples into a vulgar festival to celebrate it as european union day, a day of celebration of european monopolies. today the working class and the poor layers of the population are suffering, again, one of the worst capitalist crises. they 're facing the biggest attack since the end of world war ii ... i 'm not ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one of the most tangible outcomes of the cancun climate change negotiations was the agreement on a green climate fund, with an unprecedented funding of $100 billion. as the un transition commission prepares the final form of the fund with a view to receiving a final stamp of approval at the end of the year in durban, questions remain open regarding the design of this unique and extremely important tool. the fund should be a well-designed vehicle to provide effective financing for climate adaptation in the developing world. but both the latest criminal attacks on the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and the evidence of a recent transparency international report on corruption in climate finance should concern us. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i hope that the council will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter.
the rapporteur. - the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of forests against fire and other harmful substances is a very good one. forests are part of our identity. it's our recreation, it's our business. and yet forests are so different for each of us, for each region of europe. if you visit the mediterranean forests from northern europe, you will see many areas that we in the mediterranean would call forests as savannahs or parks, as they have no productive activities. or, conversely, someone from the mediterranean travelling to northern europe would find the forests of this region to be more man-made than natural, as they are very heavily used for production. these forests, which are so different for each of us individually in europe, for each of our regions, have a common threat: climate change. climate change is threatening europe's forests through increased fires, disease, cross-country transmission that threatens entire species, and other disasters from extreme weather. the impact varies from one geographical area to another, but it is transnational and requires europe's help in addressing it. we are discussing today and in two days' time we shall be voting on the report of parliament on the protection of forests. it is a report which has been drawn up by consensus, from the outset, in cooperation with members of parliament from all countries and political groups. when it was put to the committee for discussion, a process of 50 compromise amendments to further develop the report was followed by all the political groups and regions represented in europe. i am therefore confident that this report represents parliament's view on how we can help forests, help our societies to adapt to climate change. what are we asking for in this report? we ask the commission to follow up the white paper on adapting and protecting forests to climate change, we ask for a new regulation to replace the old one on forest fire prevention, we ask for a new regulation to replace the old one on forest information, and we ask for an increase in funding for forests under pillar 2 of our common agricultural policy. forests account for 42% of the countryside, yet they receive only 1% of the cap. we are calling for the possibility of financing public bodies, for sustainability criteria for the forest biomass we use for energy and finally for active, sustainable forest management adapted to climate change.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to inform you that i will be making use of all my time. i was responsible for the discharge of the agencies, where the committee on budgetary control has executed its task of exercising control over the administration of a significant number of decentralised agencies and joint undertakings. the successful execution of this important task would not be possible without the help and cooperation of my fellow shadow rapporteurs or the members of the committee, my office and the secretariat. i would like to thank them all for that. i would also like to very much thank mr o’shea from the court of auditors for his contribution and cooperation. i strongly believe that the european agencies and joint undertakings bring added value to the eu and help strengthen european identity with a presence in the member states. at the same time, our role as a parliament is accountability towards citizens, so we have to make sure that taxpayers’ money is used properly, transparently and effectively. the constructive dialogue involved a long monitoring process over several months between parliament, the agencies, the commission, the internal audit service and the court of auditors. the joint long, analytical and preparatory work has resulted, in my opinion, in increasing transparency and tighter management discipline. let me now turn to the two agencies for which our committee is proposing to postpone the discharge: cepol and emea. in cepol we were expecting to find problems dating back to last year’s report. since the new director has been in place the action plan that parliament requested has been implemented and results are just now starting to be visible. i think that it is widely accepted that, since the new management took over, improvements in the running of` cepol have been evident. nevertheless cepol needs to step up its efforts. in emea, the european medicines agency, problems were found with the management of procurement procedures. concerns were raised about the potential risk to the independence of experts and also potential problems with staff recruitment. in general, emea is considered a well organised and functioning agency. nevertheless, for an agency of this significance, i think that we should be absolutely sure that the right procedures are in place and effectively applied. for this reason we have requested the agency, with the cooperation of the internal audit service, to conduct an audit and present us with the results by the end of june. let me now conclude with a horizontal report. i would like to believe that this report gives a comprehensive overview of all the issues that are related to all the agencies and joint undertakings. the report identifies many examples of good practice and includes proposals for future improvements. it calls for a review of all agencies by the commission, with particular attention to be paid to the smallest agencies and how their performance can be improved. it also calls on the court of auditors to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the agencies’ approach to the management of situations where there is a potential conflict of interests. i am very satisfied with the readiness of the court to do so. in the current major economic and social crisis, the significance of monitoring has become more important than ever before. together – parliament, agencies, the commission and the court of auditors – we are committed to dealing with and solving the problems and achieving even better results. it is exceptionally difficult to avoid irregularities but it is even more important to find them and to prevent them. i am of the opinion that we have successfully carried out this function of monitoring.
in writing. frontex, in view of the increased migratory flows, is called upon to play an active role in the protection of europe's borders. according to frontex, 95% of illegal migrants entering europe enter through greece. the cost of deporting an illegal immigrant is €6,500 and, under dublin iii, the country of entry is responsible for deporting him. the countries on the eu's external borders are under all the migratory pressure and have become the 'migration warehouses' of the whole of europe. frontex must be supported financially and operationally to strengthen the protection of the eu's external borders and provide for a mechanism for distributing the total number of migrants across all european countries.
in writing. freedom of trade and the proper functioning of the internal market in the eu bring obligations and rights. and it is a basic right of citizens to be provided with the appropriate means of redress in the event of a claim against another citizen or company which has caused them harm. but beyond that. it should be ensured that any judicial decisions are implemented swiftly and in such a way that persons or undertakings liable and required to pay compensation do not have the margin to escape liability by simply transferring their assets to another jurisdiction, thereby denying the debtor the effective enforcement of the decision within the single market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. the new macrofinancial assistance will help georgia to cope with the global crisis by supporting the government's reform programme. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the extension of the derogation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. given that this financial assistance will be of an exceptional nature and limited in time, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of further macrofinancial assistance to georgia.
madam president, on 2 july 1990, a few days after the schengen agreement was signed, the times published an article on the subject, which began as follows: 'the dream of a europe without borders', they wrote then, 'has come one step closer to becoming a reality' and here's how it ended: 'to counter a possible increase in drug trafficking, terrorist activities and illegal immigration, checks at the schengen area's external borders must be tightened up'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must keep the dream alive and strengthen border controls in italy, greece and the whole of the european south. because these, you know, are the borders of other countries, of germany, of france, of belgium, as an example i mention these countries, these are the southern borders of the united europe. and in keeping with the principles of solidarity and reciprocity which keep this union alive, let us look again at all that does not seem to be working, let us revise the dublin ii agreement, as we are already discussing in our parliament, let us fairly share the burdens that each member state must bear, let us all together, i repeat, keep the dream alive.
politically, madam commissioner, at a time when the fundamental principles of cohesion and solidarity of the union are being challenged from all sides, especially by neo-nationalists whom we know well, the commission should, in my view, daily condemn those who attack the symbols of european integration policy. and yet we're here today precisely because he didn't do that. it has opened up a debate, pushed by some member states, on the cornerstone of european identity: schengen. the commission proposal is also in breach of articles 78 and 80 of the treaty. when a member state is under severe migratory pressure, the treaty expressly states that europe must offer it support and solidarity. the reintroduction of internal border controls is not solidarity, it is punishment. it does not share fairly the burden of dealing with the pressure at the external borders, which could come from - for example - a stronger frontex, but it transfers the burden even more heavily to the member state. in short, commissioner, it is not burden sharing but a form of burden dumping. you, the commission, have allowed this debate to take place and you must stop it here, you, now!
i would like to congratulate mr casini on his report, which is very correct. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. but the more measures of this kind we take, the more we actually promote transparency and the functional relationship of the union institutions with the social partners and interest groups. the new register, as proposed, ensures transparency for the wide range of contacts of the institutions and in particular brings together in separate chapters representatives of special interests, representatives of civil society and representatives of public authorities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the european parliament is the only institution in the european union. the invitation to register ensures the very identity of interest groups and lobbyists, as it gives them autonomy and puts them in direct and immediate contact with the union institutions. the european parliament's powers have been strengthened since the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and it is therefore attracting an increasing number of representatives of interests seeking intervention. in conclusion, mr president, the transparency register is primarily a service to transparency and democratic and pluralist interaction between the social partners, the representatives of the members who are the citizens, the people, and the institutions of the union. it is of course a matter of course that all the institutions and officials of the european union should be included in such a transparency register.
mr president, it has often been said that our citizens are unaware of the greater powers that this parliament has had since lisbon. this may be true, and it is very unfortunate, because, rest assured, lobbyists – or those pretending to be lobbyists, as proven recently – are very much aware of the powers of this parliament. we co-decide on almost all major legislation in the eu, and that is a good thing, because we represent the people of the eu. we are the only body directly elected by them. now, although this is, and will remain, one of the most transparent institutions in the union, i still believe that with greater power comes greater responsibility, and this is precisely what we must strive to achieve in the months to come. the agreement today with the commission is not bad, but lobbyists must be obliged to put their names and their real interests in a register. and this is what this parliament is already demanding of lobbyists coming here to us. i hope that the other institutions will follow suit. i close by saying the following. as you mentioned, i am a co-chair of this working group that we have in place. i cannot say much about what we are discussing in detail. i can assure you, however, that we will ensure that the rules of conduct for this parliament will be some of the most transparent and will be rules which can make our citizens and ourselves proud of being members of this extraordinary institution.
member of the commission. − as you all know, the eu headline targets under europe 2020 include increasing the employment rate to 75%, lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion, reducing the proportion of early school-leavers to under 10%, and ensuring that at least 40% of the younger generation will have completed a tertiary degree by 2020. the commission helps member states to achieve these targets through financial support, in particular the european social fund, policy coordination and policy guidance at eu level under the european semester. the 2011 joint employment report, which is based on the commission’s assessment of the member states’ draft national reform programmes, calls on them to improve the functioning of the labour market by introducing more employment-friendly tax systems and by making work pay, ensuring that wages reflect developments in productivity, introducing flexible working arrangements to facilitate the further integration of women into the labour market, ensuring that pension reforms include a more direct link between later retirement and increased pension entitlements, removing incentives for people to retire early and linking unemployment benefits with the business cycle. this means that safety nets should be reinforced at times when most needed as we have seen in the past couple of years, while money would be saved in good times. when exactly we enter good times is a country-by-country assessment. hopefully, in a couple of years’ time we will all get there. but under the current very difficult circumstances, it is also important that public employment services provide better job search assistance. we also need to reduce labour market segmentation. indeed, evidence shows that particular groups, and notably those under temporary or precarious contracts, have taken a much bigger hit as a result of the crisis. this is the reason why the commission has invited member states to introduce open-ended contracts with a gradual increase of protection rights. although small in comparison with national public budgets, the european social fund has been helping the member states weather the recent economic crisis. in line with the commission communication on the budget review and the conclusions of the fifth report on social cohesion, the europe 2020 strategy provides both a clear set of common priorities and the framework for identification of funding priorities post-2013 in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, including human capital development. the commission will present its proposals for the next multiannual financial framework at the end of june. as regards the 2012 budget, i would like to point out that the draft budget that was adopted by the commission on 20 april is in line with the european council conclusions of 24 and 25 march, which state that fiscal consolidation efforts must be complemented by growth-enhancing structural reforms. to that end, member states will implement measures in order to invest in education and training. the commission has applied a restrictive policy as regards administrative expenditure, with a nominal freeze for commission administrative expenditure. however, the commission has proposed to increase its commitment and payment appropriations, by 3.7% and 4.9% respectively, with a focus on expenditure related to the europe 2020 strategy including the esf, the lifelong learning programme, the youth in action programme, the seventh framework research programme and the competitiveness and innovation programmes.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would remind you, of course, that unemployment, especially among young people, in europe is now at 20.5% and in some cases has got out of hand. in spain, it has reached 43.5% according to the data i have, but in greece it is also close to 36%, for young people. in view of the fact that this is a critical juncture, at least an extraordinary one, and unforeseeable two or three years ago, are we expecting any further intervention by the commission in relation to these special circumstances, in addition to what you have told us?
as has already been said, youth unemployment in greece and europe is very high. at the same time, youth, women and immigrants are the most vulnerable social groups to the arbitrariness of employers, which means the circumvention of labour rights, the infringement of collective bargaining. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, what measures you will take to protect young workers from precarious employment relationships and from the arbitrariness of employers.
member of the commission. - mr president, the question was raised as to how the budget could respond to the food challenge and the objectives of the european union's treaties on the common agricultural policy and the europe 2020 strategy at the same time. the answer is that it is through a number of measures which are envisaged in the context of this reform, firstly to better target the budget which will be available, to ensure a better rebalancing of payments between the different categories of farms, between different member states, and also to use the budget as an incentive for farmers to produce public goods alongside food production through well-oriented agricultural practices. i think that this will ensure that the future common agricultural policy, which is a sectoral policy, will provide multisectoral responses, and that the budget allocated to the common agricultural policy will therefore show and bring a real european added value. i think that in this way we can justify a consistent budget for the common agricultural policy and a budget which is in line with the objectives we set for that policy. it is clear that what the common agricultural policy and european farmers will deliver in terms of the production of public goods will be proportional to the resources that can be allocated. we must also take into account, when we talk about the budget - which is why it is difficult to talk about figures at the moment - the general economic context and framework in which the budget is discussed. the member states are making efforts to reduce their expenditure, and it is also necessary that at european level we can focus the financial resources available on real priorities, on european added value. i think that in this way, mr kelly, we can justify a substantial budget for the common agricultural policy by the contributions of this policy to european society, not only in terms of marketable agricultural production but also in terms of non-marketable production, which is not remunerated by the markets. both in the payments to farmers and in the second pillar components, or through investment, through support for the production of local public goods, these objectives are being met. the proposals on the multiannual framework - as i said in my introduction - will come in june, and only then, in the autumn, will the commission present the legislative proposals. the measures taken at commission level are quite consistent, since the broad guidelines of this policy were already set out in the communication which the commission presented last november. the commission will come forward with proposals for the multiannual budgetary framework at the end of june. and on this basis, on the basis of the communication containing the broad guidelines of the reform, in the autumn the commission will present the legislative package. at that time we will not be in total confusion at all, since we will already have the presentation of the multiannual budgetary framework. the changes to the common agricultural policy will therefore not only be qualitative, in order to better target our objectives, but they will also be aimed at the distribution of payments between member states, within member states themselves or between the different categories of holdings in order to use the available resources more effectively in accordance with the objectives set. this rebalancing of payments not only serves to ensure greater fairness but also to better mobilise the different structures of agricultural production to meet the new objectives that are being set, since historical references to payments that were based on subsidies received previously are no longer justified in this context in which fairly clear objectives are now being set for the future common agricultural policy. mr niculescu, how can we ensure a good balance between the production of market goods, food goods and environmental goods? not by trying to put even more on the farmers, but by trying to use part of the budget as an incentive to produce through agricultural practices which are environmentally friendly, but which do not necessarily involve too great an increase in production costs. so, thanks to this incentive, and without greatly affecting the level of agricultural production, european farmers will also be able to produce public goods. but for this, it is clear that this production of public goods will be directly proportional to the level of budget that can be ensured to cover the costs with this type of agricultural practice. in this way, the common agricultural policy will be able to integrate, in the objectives proposed with this reform, economic aspects, environmental aspects, aspects linked to climate change and aspects linked to the balances of territories in rural areas.
member of the commission. - mr president, tackling climate change is a major challenge for europe and more research and innovation efforts will be needed to develop a low-carbon society that is resilient to climate change. at present, there is no single specialised body operating in these areas, nor any specific incentive such as the annual climate innovation prize mentioned. nevertheless, much effort is being made to achieve a coordinated approach among the various policies and programmes of the union. the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiative, an 'innovation union', were agreed to bring the european economy out of the crisis and tackle social challenges. investment in research and innovation, including new technologies such as eco-innovation, is at the heart of the strategy, and new financial instruments are being considered to achieve a significant increase in private finance and to establish sustainable, long-term growth. as part of the innovation union, a european innovation partnership pilot initiative is proposed to cover the entire innovation chain, starting with research and development, to ensure that the right conditions are in place to successfully bring r&d results to market. other european innovation partnerships could be proposed at a later stage. secondly, the commission's green paper 'when challenges become opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding in the european union' proposes major improvements to the research and innovation agenda which will be part of the next multiannual financial framework of the european union. first, the idea is to link research to innovation by bringing together all the relevant eu instruments in a common strategic framework to develop truly transversal strategies covering the entire innovation system, from research to technological development, demonstration and the market. it is also proposed to link eu funding to major societal challenges such as climate change. the aim would be to use eu funding as a lever to attract more private funding, inter alia, in the area of green technology innovation. finally, the green paper raises the question of how eu funding would be used to support small and medium-sized enterprises as well. the commission invited stakeholders to submit contributions to the green paper by 20 may 2011. the commission will then present its legislative proposals for the future funding of the european union's research and innovation towards the end of this year.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you, referring to your own subject, agriculture, how do you imagine that innovation, applied to the agri-food chain, could help not only to combat climate change, but also to address and prevent the negative consequences that we all know will have on rural life?
member of the commission. - mr president, on a practical level, this can be ensured by encouraging farmers to adopt agricultural practices which not only respect the environment, soil quality, water and biodiversity, but which also enable farmers to reduce carbon emissions and better fix carbon in the soil. the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, in particular, is intended to encourage farmers to direct their investments towards reducing carbon emissions, including through measures relating to investment to enable farmers to modernise. for example, the level of public co-financing will not be the same for a tractor with high or normal carbon emissions as for a tractor and agricultural equipment with low carbon emissions. so we will use public funding to encourage farmers to care about this issue. secondly, it is envisaged to create an instrument that will contribute to a knowledge agriculture, i.e. that will make it possible to use the results of research, development, innovation - even research produced under the common research strategy - and to put all these results into practice. a network of good practice and innovation will be set up at european level, bringing together researchers, consultants, trainers, farmers, the agri-food industry, to shorten the chain of knowledge production to the practical application of this knowledge. in this way, the agricultural technologies and techniques that farmers will apply can also contribute not only to ensuring economic competitiveness but also to reducing the impact of agricultural activity on climate change.
member of the commission. − the question addressed to the commission actually implies the diagnosis of the real state of the economy in europe, as well as the prescription. i can share to some extent both the diagnosis and the prescription. yes, we are in a europe of austerity, meaning socially painful savings, politically costly and economically necessary, but challenging to some extent for the very fragile recovery of the european economy. the european commission is a strong supporter of fiscal consolidation as a precondition for sustainable growth, but we are more than ever conscious of the sensitivity of the economic debate now being discussed as the ‘relaunch versus austerity’ problem, and this was discussed even today in the college. when you take the long run and when you read the 2020 strategy, this is clear, as it is with the relaunch of the single market strategy, but this is about the unlocking of the potential of the european economy. the european budget should be the answer right now as we need growth and jobs right now. this is because of the specific nature of the european budget, with its focus on investment. the national budgets are mainly about social transfers; the european budget is mainly about investment and therefore could have a multiplying effect on jobs and growth and when we see the proposal for 2012, what is growing, with competitiveness, is cohesion, that is structural funding, and research and development; the other category of growing expenses is on migration. so this type of expenditure is conducive to growth and jobs. in the long run the same should be valid for the proposal we are to reveal at the end of june for the next financial perspective, adding a lot on top of what i have mentioned relating to the energy and trans-european infrastructure generally that is also conducive to growth and jobs. therefore i can say that the european budget, due to its nature, could be the delivery mechanism in a time of austerity to replace the investment cut normally at the national level. therefore we should exploit this potential of the european budget to its limits.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer that question. i do not know whether you have discussed today in the commission what has been written in the press lately about the greek debt: about secret meetings, about debt restructuring, about a new loan and the possible exit of the country from the euro. at the same time, we are experiencing the dramatic consequences of the memorandum. without sustainable growth, neither the debt will be repaid nor the economic situation will improve. the question i want to ask you is: what measures do you propose, immediately, now, in relation to the budget, to help countries like greece, which are suffering from the crisis?
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank corien wortmann-kool, sharon bowles and, now, antolín sánchez presedo for their three questions on a very important subject, the credibility of stress tests on banks. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where the financial industry is slowly recovering - even though for some banks the crisis seems to have already ended - from this crisis, from an unprecedented violence. we are not done learning the lessons and there is important legislative work to be done. to assess this crisis and learn from it, we need a supervisory framework - we have had one since 1 january, thanks to you in particular. we need predictive tools, we need better governance in each of these institutions. we also need better capitalisation - we will come back to that. and then, we need to measure, take the temperature, take the pulse all the time. and that is why - as you have said, ladies and gentlemen - we need reliable measuring instruments at the moment. the stress test is a key measure, a key tool in this context and we have discussed it not only here but also often, and no later than in april, with the finance ministers in council. as you have mentioned, the stress test last year was clearly inadequate and the commission itself has said this on many occasions to the new supervisory authority, the eba, which is coordinating the test in cooperation with the national supervisors. so you are right to ask about the quality and, again, the credibility of the new tests in 2011, which started a few weeks ago in april, and i would like to answer your questions, give you our analysis on five points. first, the stress tests for 2011, as you requested, have been improved in real terms, particularly in six areas which i would like to tell you about by telegraph. 1. the the adverse macroeconomic scenario used simulates conditions that are much more stringent than the 2010 scenario. it adds, among other things, severe property shocks, as well as an explicit impact on the cost of financing. 2. the the consistency of the exercise was greatly improved by a strengthened upstream methodology and rigorous downstream contradictory validation. it's called peer review. 3. the in accordance with the principle of increased transparency, the publication of results in june will be enhanced and accompanied by a separate but detailed publication of bank balance sheets. this will also include publicity of sovereign debt holdings as well as capital structure. 4. the banks are also tested on the basis of a higher capital threshold, the core tier one. the fifth. the publication of the methodology in advance of the publication of the stress results improves the overall credibility of the exercise. 6. the finally, the coordination of national authorities in the implementation of the solutions, which will be imposed on banks that fail this test - the so-called backstops - is significantly strengthened and improved. this is the progress, the improvement which you were right to call your wishes and which has been made in one year compared with the previous one. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we need much more clarity on sovereign debt exposures. many of you, particularly the liberal group, have asked me about the methodology used in this context, as mrs wortmann-kool did earlier. the eba's adverse scenario envisages a significant shock in the form of changes in the price of sovereign debt and the cost of its financing. but as you pointed out, this scenario does not extend to sovereign default. the impact of the shock as envisaged by eba would only have an impact on the sovereign bonds held in the banks' trading book. nevertheless, there is an explanation for this choice made this year. i would remind you that stress tests simulate extreme scenarios, but they must be plausible. today, and in the context of the recent establishment, with many euro area governance tools, of the new european financial stability mechanism and the european financial stability facility, we reasonably think and we think with the european banking authority that it is much more useful today to ensure full transparency of sovereign debt exposures as they appear in the banking and trading book. the advertising will be much more detailed than last year. third point. you also drew our attention to the need to implement more coherent stress test scenarios across the union. this is indeed essential for the credibility of the exercise. the authority is making considerable efforts to conduct a rigorous validation of the results of this year. this will ensure consistency between the methodologies applied by the banks and, i believe, appropriate convergence in the way macroeconomic scenarios are translated into the respective risk parameters. this approach does not prevent banks from reflecting certain specificities of their portfolio or a particular management model. another key element in the consistency of the exercise is the use of common definitions of the capital thresholds against which the participating banks will be assessed. the capital benchmark announced by eba is largely based on the current provisions of the capital adequacy directive, which already takes into account the different banking structures and management models that exist in europe. fourth point. you asked us about the differences in coverage of the banking sector within the union, as did sharon bowles and other speakers. the authority has endeavoured to develop a sufficiently representative sample, both at national and eu level, while maintaining a manageable fiscal year. the banks tested in the 2011 financial year represent, ladies and gentlemen, 65% of the european banking sector in terms of total assets. in each member state, the sample was drawn up to cover at least 50% of the total assets of the national banking sector. i come now to my fifth point, which mr sánchez presedo has mentioned, concerning the question of the corrective measures, the backstops, expected from banks which prove to be vulnerable or potentially undercapitalised. these banks will have to implement appropriate measures to address their weaknesses, in particular by turning to the private sector for financing directly from the markets or by selling assets. if, and only if, these measures prove insufficient, public support could be considered, provided of course that it complies with european state aid rules. my colleague joaquín almunia and his whole team are working upstream with the member states on this particular issue. if public support is needed, the beneficiary banks should, in accordance with the december 2010 communication on the implementation of state aid rules for banks, submit to the commission a problem-based restructuring plan, in particular to strengthen and restore their long-term viability. finally, you have legitimately called for a strategy for recapitalising and restructuring failing banks, as proposed by elisa ferreira in her report on crisis management. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on a legislative framework for crisis management, banking resolution, we have had the opportunity to speak about this on several occasions. my aim is to give supervisors and the future resolution committee for these transnational institutions a toolbox to take preventive measures, to prevent risks that have been diagnosed early enough from turning into crises and crises from turning into catastrophes. so, to ensure and finance if necessary early intervention, that the banks pay for the banks, that is what we have called an orderly resolution, and i intend to put this proposal before both the council of ministers and you before the end of this summer. these are the most precise technical answers i could give to the three extremely pertinent questions that were asked at the beginning of this meeting.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. commissioner, if we have learned anything in europe from the recent financial crisis, it is that fully ensuring the adequate capital adequacy of our credit institutions and effective supervision of the level of risk they take on are key elements of overall governance, not only financial but also economic. the european economy's return to growth in a lasting and consistent way also requires the restoration of confidence in the functioning of the banking sector and the general restoration of the smooth functioning of the financial system in terms of transparency, but also in terms of returning to its basic role as a lever for financing the real economy. as has been demonstrated in practice, and as several speakers have pointed out, last year's stress tests failed to achieve their objective, namely to demonstrate which banks have the required credibility vis-à-vis consumers, their creditors and national regulators. this year, we are in a different situation. the stress tests will be initiated by the new supervisory authority, the european banking authority, and we must by all means avoid last year's failure. a key prerequisite for this is the imposition of common criteria for assessing the resilience of banks, uniform in their interpretation and application, but broad enough to cover the different risks of each national market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
i congratulate mr albertini on his report and his reference to the principles and priorities of the cfsp, of political defence and security. the world is changing and the european union is facing enormous challenges and it is necessary to take effective action to meet them. threats from persistent poverty, social exclusion of the masses, rising unemployment, geopolitical changes in the arab world, note this in particular, natural disasters and migration are a major problem of the present and portend tensions for the future. in particular, the issue of immigration, which has recently been a point of friction between italy and france, has called into question the schengen treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. solidarity is a good thing, but it is also a good thing to preserve social structures. and any discussion of the schengen treaty must, in my view, be accompanied by an amendment to the dublin ii treaty.
mrs ashton, we are discussing today the topics of the union's foreign policy and three important texts from the european parliament on the role of the european union in the world. the question that everyone is asking in today's debate is whether there is in fact a common foreign policy. when europe has been slow to find its feet in the historic event of recent decades, the uprisings in the arab world, and has been cowardly, timid and for a long time divided, when the union countries have failed to adopt a united position on the crucial 1973 security council resolution on libya, when the union is hesitant on syria, i wonder whether the question has already been answered in practice. after the treaty of lisbon, the hopes were high. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter.
rapporteur. − mr president, i cannot imagine anyone in this room voting against a ban on construction in places where land was burned by intentional forest fires with illegal purposes. this is very important for countries across europe, and what is said in the second part of paragraph 36 and paragraph 37 is an attempt to ensure legality and combat criminal activity against forests in europe. i would like to ask for a roll-call vote on these two texts: the second part of paragraph 36 and paragraph 37.
in writing. on the manders recommendation on textile names and related labelling, i voted in favour of the compromise proposal of the political groups because i am in favour of a mandatory system of country of origin labelling for textile products from third countries. i also believe that this can promote fair competition in the eu as well as on the international stage.
in writing. economic recovery is based, among other things, on the exploitation of new technologies and the digital economy. the eu, although it has set ambitious targets in its flagship initiative 'digital agenda', such as broadband coverage for all eu citizens by 2013 and coverage at 30 mbps or more by 2020, still lags behind the us and japan in terms of competitiveness. the liberalisation of large parts of the radio spectrum that will allow the rapid development of new services and high-speed internet via mobile connections that will offer their citizens high capacity is therefore a first practical step. it is a technical aspect, but in any case it is necessary to establish a clear trend towards greater productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market for european industry as a whole, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the casini report stresses the importance of amending the european parliament's regulation following the creation of a common transparency register between the european parliament and the european commission. i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the commitment of the european institutions to transparency, as i share the view that the creation of this register contributes to the control of all bodies and persons involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies.
in writing. the legitimacy of political institutions is also based on their transparent functioning. the report, which i voted for, puts the question of accountability on the right footing. citizens must have easy and unhindered access to the decision-making process, to the influence and to the activity of interest representatives. it is true that at european level the european parliament was the first institution to deal with the phenomenon of the activity of a large number of interest groups. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the common register is therefore a first and important step in the control and transparency of the work of interest groups.
in writing. i voted against the oral question on eu-japan trade relations, as japan is one of the main investors in the european union. japan is also the seventh largest destination for european exports. the continuation of the dialogue with japan can only be considered positive. reducing the differences we have would make a significant contribution to both economies. in addition, we should focus on reducing tariffs and the accompanying regulatory measures.
in writing. the reports on the eu's cfsp and its role on the international stage, which were voted over by the large coalition of political representatives of the 'conservatives, social democrats and liberals' in the european parliament, highlight its deeply reactionary character, its anti-people role. we must not forget that the european parliament, with its resolution on this subject, was the precursor and sought to legitimize the eu-us-nato war against libya, to plunder the country's resources and control developments in the wider region, amidst fierce imperialist rivalries. the bourgeois political staff in the european parliament demands the strengthening of the eu's imperialist character, the strengthening of its militarization and the development of its military capabilities and the euro-army, in particular the 'flexible' combat formations and the rapid reaction forces such as those it is preparing with eufor libya for ground operations in libya with the decisive participation of greece, which is leading the balkan battle group. it promotes the eu's strategic alliance with nato, it draws up a plan for imperialist interventions and wars by the eu across the planet, under the pretext of 'crisis management', 'humanitarian aid', 'the fight against terrorism', with the priority of gaining ground in the acute inter-imperialist competition that rages in the wider region of north africa and the middle east.
in writing. the resolution strengthens the eu's roles in the multilateral system. in particular, it clarifies the eu's roles in international financial institutions, the united nations system, multilateral security organisations and other multilateral organisations such as the world trade organisation, the council of europe, the organisation for economic cooperation and development) in general. the eu's role in 'summit diplomacy' is also clarified. in view of the fact that european cooperation is not an option but a necessity, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution entitled 'the eu as a global actor: its role in multilateral organisations'.
madam president, i am afraid i will be less diplomatic. i have to say to the commissioner and the representative of the council: you are again proposing a ban on food from cloned animals but nobody can buy food from cloned animals. cloned animals are very expensive to use for food. it will be their descendants that are used for food. that is why we want a ban on their descendants, and why we want clear labelling of the descendants. i am afraid that your role in the negotiations was not productive. you were fighting against this labelling on descendants, which was a minimum common denominator with the council. this was our chance to have an agreement. please learn the lessons, listen to what this institution has to say on the issue, and come back to us with a decent proposal.
the whole issue, i believe, is the failure to inform consumers and citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, information and transparency in what we do so that we can finish what we start.
author. − mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on their contribution to this very useful resolution and to state that i agree with all that has been said so far. nevertheless, i have made some amendments on a couple of issues, which i feel could be constructive and useful contributions to the final text. firstly, there is no mention in the text of the effects of illegal trade on small businesses. unfortunately in this day and age, illegal trade is a reality and a phenomenon which is growing in all member states. to put it simply, illegal trade is one of the biggest obstacles to the emergence and growth of europe’s small businesses. my second comment concerns the commission’s ‘second chance’ initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in these times of economic difficulty especially, it is important to support smes and help them to develop. this leads me to my last point. i think it is regrettable that few of our innovative smes grow into larger companies and that there are fewer young, r&d-intensive, innovative firms in the eu than in the usa. significant shortages in innovation-related skills prevent smes from adopting innovative smart business models and new technologies. this is an issue we must address, and we must cultivate in europe the risk-taking spirit that exists in the usa among the young generation of americans.
, in writing. mr president, i welcome this initiative of parliament because through a broad consensus among political groups to start a debate on small and mediumsized enterprises their crucial role as a driving force for eu growth is becoming clear. the economic situation makes it even more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to raise capital. there is an urgent need to improve their access to markets, finance and information. we need to reduce the administrative burden by simplifying the regulatory environment. at european level, it is important to combat the black market economy and provide incentives for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission recently announced 12 actions for 2012 to revitalise the single market, including measures for sme financing and worker mobility, which i believe are moving in the right direction. by making full use of the single market and exploiting its advantages, growth and prosperity at european level can be enhanced and business can be given a new impetus. measures such as the european patent and the european professional identity must be strengthened and widely implemented to boost competitiveness and employment.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i fully understand the significant interest in this parliament in the actions being undertaken within the union and beyond to tackle the challenges which some member states are facing in relation to their public finances. the global financial crisis has had a significant impact on both revenues and expenditure in all our countries, even if the extent and nature of that impact is not the same in all cases and the capacity of individual member states to handle the consequences is also very different. the first thing i would like to stress is that it is the member states themselves which are, first and foremost, responsible for ensuring that their public finances are sustainable and on a sound footing. similarly it is for each one of them to ensure that their economies are competitive, flexible and resilient. of course, that does not mean that public finances and economic performance are not also a matter of collective interest. we are part of a union, and our economies are interlinked in a number of ways: through the single market and in many cases through the sharing of the common currency and the deeper economic integration which that implies. more generally, we all have a commitment of solidarity towards each other, based on a desire to protect and promote the wider european interest. what that means is that we all want to see a stable and strong economy across the eu as a whole and, within it, of the euro area in particular. where necessary this has to involve taking steps to ensure the stability of individual member states. we have a number of tools at our disposal to do this. we have the coordination mechanism that seeks to ensure that appropriate economic and budgetary policies are pursued by each and every member state. these are being updated and reinforced, and i am pleased that negotiations between the council and parliament are advancing well. we also have access to the european financial stabilisation mechanism, which can offer support at eu level to any member state, whether inside or outside the euro zone. in addition, and for the euro zone countries specifically, further instruments have been set up and are continuing to be developed. greece has received a package of coordinated bilateral loans from member states as well as a loan from the imf. ireland has received a package consisting of bilateral loans, a loan from the european financial stability facility (efsm) and also a loan from the imf. the support package for portugal, which will also draw on both european and imf support, is also being prepared. ministers of the euro zone member states are also finalising the technical details of the european stability mechanism, which is due to take effect from 2013 as a permanent financial support mechanism to replace the european financial stability facility. non-euro zone member states are also participating in this process. i would now like to turn briefly to the situation in the three euro zone countries to which i have already referred. i should, however, mention that, from the outset, many of the issues in relation to these member states are discussed outside the regular ecofin format, reflecting their specific characteristics as members of the euro zone. the chair of the euro group would be better able than i to give you further details on many of these points. first, ireland. following the agreement last december of an overall eur 85 billion assistance programme for ireland, the irish authorities have undertaken a great deal of work to implement the adjustment programme to which the financial support was attached. this programme has been kept under constant review by the new government. the ecofin council will review compliance with the programme for the first quarter at its meeting on 17 may, next tuesday. i cannot say much in advance about that discussion, but the overall assessment is likely to be that ireland’s performance is in line with expectations. however, some specific challenges remain. ireland will, in particular, need to stick to the powerful fiscal adjustment as well as ensure that its financial sector is on a stable footing for the future. second, greece. greece has come a long way since the very difficult situation last year, and its efforts should be commended. it has been faced with a daunting challenge and has demonstrated unwavering commitment and clarity of purpose. the adjustment programme is broadly on track. the latest implementation report, drafted jointly by the commission, the imf and the ecb in march, concluded that the programme has made further progress towards its objectives. some of the reforms needed to deliver the programme’s medium-term objectives are being put in place. the report also identifies further areas where reforms are required in order to build the critical mass necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability and economic recovery. the commission, the ecb and the imf continue to monitor progress on the implementation of the adjustment programme closely. the next review is scheduled for this month. the member states participating in the bilateral loan agreed in march to reduce the interest rate by 1% and to extent the maturity of the loan. this is also a positive development. the technical details of the implementation of this agreement are currently under discussion. finally, portugal. on 6 april the portuguese caretaker government announced its intention to seek financial assistance from the european union. this followed a period of intense pressure from the financial markets. however, portugal was also going through a period of political uncertainty which, as we know, led to the resignation of the government on 24 march. the portuguese parliament had previously rejected the new fiscal conciliation package proposed by the government. negotiations between the troika and the portuguese authorities have now been finalised, and the memorandum of understanding on the policy conditions attached to the financial assistance is being agreed. the financial envelope will be around eur 78 billion covering a three-year period. in line with recommendations by the ecofin ministers at the informal ecofin in budapest in april, the programme covers reform in a number of areas, including public finance, labour and product markets and the financial sector. we consider that such measures are essential for growth potential and increased economic stability. endorsement of the final financial package is also expected at next week’s ecofin council. this is only a brief overview of the measures being taken to address the impact of the global financial crisis on the eu and on three member states in particular. as i said at the outset, the hungarian presidency is not directly involved in all of the detailed negotiations, some of which were more specifically within the remit of the euro group. the presidency is, however, committed to doing its part to assist in ensuring that all necessary measures are in place in order to address the current problems. we consider that this is essential if we are to boost europe’s competitiveness in the longer term and, in so doing, deliver the strong role which europe as a whole needs.
member of the commission. − mr president, europe’s economic outlook today is quite dualistic. on the one hand, the recovery in the real economy has taken hold and is becoming more solid and self-sustaining. on the other hand, it is uneven and we still face turbulence in the financial markets, especially in the sovereign debt markets. thus the key task of the eu’s economic policy now is to contain the sovereign debt crisis and thus protect the ongoing recovery in the real economy of europe. now, with the eu-imf programme of portugal waiting for its adoption next monday in the eurogroup ecofin meeting, we are beginning another chapter in this necessary endeavour. last week the portuguese government presented an economic reform programme following our productive negotiations with the government, the opposition, civil society, social partners and the academic world. these talks are reflected in the programme. it is a portuguese programme that deserves the support of the european union and of the international monetary fund. our joint assistance of eur 78 billion shows the strong commitment to help portugal and safeguard the financial stability of europe. it is a demanding but fair and necessary programme of adjustment. it will require major efforts on the part of the portuguese people. great attention has been paid in its preparation to social fairness and protecting the vulnerable. europe stands by portugal for the sake of the country and for the sake of economic stability in europe. considering recent developments, it would be wrong to say that the debt crisis is no longer a burden for the european economy, yet it would be equally wrong to claim that the eu has not responded to the crisis. consider this: only a year ago the euro area member states agreed on a conditional loan package to greece in order to prevent a meltdown of our financial system. within this one year, from last may until today, we have created effective stability mechanisms which were at first temporary and which will then become permanent as of 2013. we are implementing a very systematic programme of fiscal consolidation in all member states, and they are committed to bold structural reforms to boost growth and job creation. we are, with your active support, addressing the systemic weaknesses in eu economic governance in order to prepare for a profound change in the policymaking landscape of the european union. we are, again with your support, addressing the shortcomings of our integrated financial market by toughening financial regulation and implementing the new supervisory architecture. at the present juncture, financial stability is being safeguarded by the eu-imf stability mechanisms and especially by the actions that the member states – especially the vulnerable member states – are themselves taking. still some people argue that the crisis management strategy, especially with regard to greece, is failing. i disagree with this view. the first – and the primary – objective of our strategy has been to prevent another cardiac arrest of the kind that followed the failure of lehmann brothers in september 2008 and subsequently led to the financial crisis and economic recession worldwide. we have done that and thus protected the ongoing recovery in the real economy in europe. secondly, we have been able largely to contain the distress in the sovereign debt markets to the three countries in the programme. as seen in the bond spreads, spain is decoupling from these countries thanks to its determined action on the fiscal, financial and structural fronts. thirdly, the programmes in both greece and ireland are still in the relatively early stages. the greek programme has been running for one year and its counterpart in ireland for about five months of the three years of the programme. both countries are pursuing very ambitious programmes of fiscal consolidation, structural reform and financial repair. our review mission is currently in athens with the ecb and the imf to assess the implementation of the programme and to prepare an updated analysis of the debt sustainability of greece. the work will be concluded in the coming weeks, which will facilitate well-informed decisions. in any event, while the fiscal effort of the past year is unprecedented – over 7% of gdp, or eur 20 billion – it is clear that greece has to seriously reinforce the implementation of the economic reforms, achieve a breakthrough in the privatisation programme and then ensure its full implementation. it is absolutely necessary and urgent that the domestic disputes are put aside and cross-party support achieved for the recovery of greece. it is an illusion to think that there were any real alternatives to the economic reform programme. this is, therefore, a real test of the credibility of the greek political forces, both government and opposition, and ultimately of the will of the greek people. the present stage of the crisis is a closely intertwined combination of sovereign debt crisis and banking sector fragilities. we cannot solve one without solving the other; we must resolve both in parallel. therefore the banking sector repair must be completed to safeguard the provision of credit to the real economy, to enterprises, households, individual citizens. a new round of bank stress tests is being conducted. the results will guide the necessary restructuring and recapitalisation of the banking sector. ahead of the publication of the results, the member states will need to release their strategies for possible restructuring or recapitalisation of their vulnerable institutions. such plans should be ready as soon as possible and should include a detailed timeline. in conclusion, the fundamental reforms of financial regulation and economic governance in the european union are profoundly changing the economic and financial architecture of europe. in the near future a whole new set of rules will provide the basis for stable, sustainable growth and job creation. in the meantime, we must continue our work to safeguard financial stability and thus protect economic recovery in europe, which is the key for sustainable growth and improving employment. this continues to call for very difficult decisions at european and national levels. i trust we all have the wisdom and courage to take such decisions.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one year later, two other eurozone countries, ireland and portugal, have resorted to the support mechanism, unable to secure the necessary financing from the markets. the specificities and different problems of each country are, of course, reflected in the different adjustment programmes, which are, however, inspired by a basic philosophy: the absolute emphasis on rapid fiscal adjustment. in the case of greece, however, commissioner, despite the achievement, as you have repeatedly stressed, of a feat of reducing the primary deficit by 7 percentage points and the total by 5% of gdp, the longer than expected recession in 2010 led to less revenue for the state. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the second element to be assessed is that the markets, despite the efforts made, are not responding. but the decisions of the european union have not only failed to convince the markets, but in some cases have made the situation worse, such as the famous deauville decision on the involvement of the private sector in the permanent support mechanism to be set up in 2013. the conclusion is that any success of fiscal adjustment programmes is in danger of being eroded by the fear that markets and rating agencies still inspire today. we have come to discuss in the last few days, with the continuing - despite the denials - recurrence of restructuring scenarios and even bankruptcy or the exit of a country from the euro area, things which we would have considered unthinkable before. the commissioner, knowing your commitment to europe, i believe you will agree with me that the solutions we are discussing today, the way we are going to manage this crisis, will undoubtedly be a great chapter in european history. today we are forming the conditions under which the epilogue will be written. i believe and hope that we are all aware of the historicity of the moment, and that the outcome will not be written in blue for the course of the european union and emu, but that it will mark a bold and decisive step which will make the union more cohesive, more united and stronger.
i would expect you to answer honestly, commissioner, that the austerity programme, the memorandum, which has been implemented and is being implemented with religious piety in greece, has completely failed. the deficit is above forecasts, the debt has risen, unemployment has risen, austerity is deepening and you, commissioner, have seen a recovery of the economy and averted a heart attack, while your spokesman has seen targets and successes. at the same time, this recipe is being sought and applied in ireland and portugal. these recipes have failed completely. at the same time, in europe, recent data show that germany is experiencing economic growth and its exports have reached their highest level since the 1950s. i think that the combination of these facts, this inequality and the disparities that are present and functioning within the european union, is the problem and one of the causes of the problem. after that, what are you waiting for to change policy? tell us what you discuss in secret meetings, because there are too many scenarios. will you finally change policy to address the problems?
mr president, it is a gross lie that the economic crisis is a debt crisis. it is a crisis of over-accumulation of capital, a crisis of the capitalist system, which shows its historically outdated character. the capitalist crisis in greece, ireland and portugal is deepening and is continuing. the debt and deficit in these countries are not national peculiarities; they are the result, not the cause. the source of these is extensive support for big capital: subsidies, tax breaks for monopolies, nato spending, the destruction of industrial production, mining, manufacturing, textiles, shipbuilding, with a heavy blow to agricultural production and billions of euros for large business groups. the basic cause of the attack of the european union, bourgeois governments and capital, against the income and rights of the working class, spearheading the pact for the euro and the european stability mechanism, a mechanism of controlled bankruptcy, goes beyond the capitalist management of the crisis and debt. the strategic objective of the european union, of bourgeois governments and of capital is not only to place the burden of the crisis on the working people, but also to make the labour force as cheap as possible in order to ensure the profitability of the monopoly groups. today's great general strike in greece sends a strong message of struggle .................. (the president interrupts the speaker) (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i understand your inability to come up with proposals to solve the acute problems facing workers both in your country and in the other 26 member states of the european union. i should like to inform you that the communist party of greece, before our country's accession to the european union, had opposed it and had informed the greek people of the consequences. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this contradiction will be resolved by the people's struggle.
mr president, the previous speaker spoke of the overlap of responsibilities and objects between the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, based in dublin, and the european centre for the development of vocational training, based in thessaloniki, greece. as far as i can remember, both organizations were founded in 1975. i think and ask: is it possible that two organizations were set up at the same time for the same purpose?
mr president, i very much liked the question, because i like the evaluation, i like the control. i also like studies that provide data that can help us to make our work in the european institutions more effective for european citizens. and i wonder, when within the european institutions, even for good morning, we ask for an impact study, have we been bothered by these two organizations that have been working since 1975 doing research and studies on work, on education, on training? that's a very good question. but its objective is not economic, it is not accounting, it is political. it is a question that comes and goes in different ways, for different reasons, and the fact that it comes now that europe is in crisis, that workers are hurting, that education is hurting, shows that the objective is different. we've learned to knock and where we can, we slap! does greece hurt? the european centre for the development of vocational training, which is based in thessaloniki, has been under attack since 1975! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i asked for the floor because i see that i am not depriving him of another colleague, to raise three points which i think help our discussion. first, i would ask whether there is a study on the money that would be saved if these four agencies were to cease to operate. the question is not addressed to the commission, of course, but to the absent member who asked the question, who is no longer here, who does not seem to want an answer. the second is that the international labour organisation (ilo) is making full use of the data provided by these agencies, and the third and final point is to remind the house that the exemption for all four agencies was voted on just yesterday. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i would like to thank ms merkies for all her efforts and her coordination during the period in which this report was being negotiated among the political groups. i believe that she has done a very good job. i have three points to make. i am happy to see that the rapporteur has taken on board the role of broadband. the digital world and information and communication technologies are engines of innovation, and high-speed broadband should be an essential precondition for all european innovation partnerships. secondly, in the run-up to the fp8, we should further strengthen the monitoring and ex-post evaluation of results of eu-funded research and innovation activities. thus, we see that ms merkies has quite correctly included in her report a paragraph calling on the commission to develop an integrated indicator system that would allow better monitoring and assessment of progress and the measureable impact of innovation policies and programmes in the eu. in conclusion, a few days ago the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, stated that europeans are not innovative because they are depressed. that is, indeed, an innovative assumption but i think it is a matter of character. we need to encourage a culture of learning, curiosity and risk-taking.
mr president, mrs merkies' report was excellent and i congratulate her. of course, we have the 2020 strategy, we have many efforts and many reports on innovation and youth employment, on paper, that we have to put into practice. young people in europe are unemployed at 9.6%, in terms of the general unemployment rate, but particularly for young people aged 19-27 the rate is over 20.2% and, of course, people are depressed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not only a matter of social policy, but also of social policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. the commission's communication refers to partnerships in the field of innovation. how does the commission intend to promote greater involvement of the regions, by what means and with what funding?
commissioner, the 'youth on the move' initiative focuses on enhancing the mobility of young people, with a view, in particular, to employment. however, in times of economic crisis and of questioning of values, youth mobility cannot be linked only to curbing unemployment. in the conservative trends threatening the unity of the european union, and we heard some of them this morning, youth mobility can be used as a major tool to strengthen european cohesion. the market needs must be taken into account. universities, however, must preserve their autonomy and public character and their curricula must maintain their academic and research orientation. higher education in the european union should not be limited to reproducing models that have created both crisis and doubt. it should, instead, aim at creating new models of social cohesion and collectivity that only the humanities and a european university ranking system that takes them into account can put to good use.
mr president, i would like to express my sympathy to your countrymen, we consider spain a friendly country and we regret what has happened. mr president, the 'youth on the move' report is one of the most important initiatives included in the 2020 strategy to promote and provide more education and training opportunities for young people and to facilitate their transition from education to the labour market. education, lifelong learning, innovation, culture are certainly the ways to progress. there is a greek proverb that says that heads make heads and not heads make heads, so we must identify and highlight and exploit the skills and abilities of our young people, and this will be done if we secure and guarantee employment commensurate with their qualifications and potential. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, we, the co-authors, all agreed to a compromise yesterday that reads as follows: ‘notes the growing illegal trade in all member states in counterfeit and pirated products imported from third countries, which are threatening the competitiveness of european smes’. we authors all agree to this.
in writing. the report refers to the youth on the move programme which enables young people and youth organisations to do more at european level (seminars, meetings, trips) and to participate actively in discussions on youth policies, with financial support from the eu. the positive points of the report are the frequent reference to the importance of access to education, the opposition to cuts in the budgets for education and training and the call for an increase in their funding in such a way that, among other things, everyone will be able to participate in this programme. it also enables young people from neighbouring countries to participate and develop the need to combat employment discrimination. the real status of 'stage' is given great importance, allowing for decent pay and access to social security with conditions so that they do not replace real jobs. however, because the report also contains certain points characteristic of bologna's education policy which i am opposed to, because it refers to the need to design programmes according to 'market needs', which i consider particularly dangerous for the possible nature of the programme, i voted against.
in writing. the youth on the move flagship initiative is one of the seven flagship initiatives included in the european commission's europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. it focuses on learning mobility, but its added value lies in the fact that it also looks forward to training that will meet the needs of the labour market and provide the skills and knowledge needed. however, this initiative needs to be combined with the report 'a european union youth strategy' which was voted in favour in the ep in 2010 and which concerns the development of a new, strong european strategy with a ten-year horizon, so that europe, in youth matters, develops a single policy framework. moreover, in order not to remain a mere declaration, the responsibility normally lies with the member states and it is regrettable that the interim national reform programmes do not meet the objectives set by strategy 2020, despite the fact that everyone recognises that investment in research and education is a long-term investment with a return value and with clear implications for the future well-being of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr milan sver on the commission's initiative 'youth on the move'. the aim is to take measures to combat early school-leaving and to provide incentives for an increase in the number of europeans in higher education. it also mentions the great importance of ensuring that the training provided meets the needs of the labour market and that it provides the skills and knowledge that europe's young people will need.
in writing. diversity in european educational traditions and therefore in pre-school education is not only tolerated but also welcomed as it reflects the different european cultural, historical or social expressions of a country. there is, however, room to develop a european framework with minimal coordination obstacles, with common objectives and values, common rights and structures. moreover, achieving the barcelona target that eu member states should provide childcare to at least 90% of children aged three up to the age of compulsory education and to at least 33% of children aged under 3 requires coordination between member states and, where possible, the exchange of information and best practices, in particular from member states with developed structures in early childhood education to partners with less experience in this field.
in writing. the early years of a child's education are extremely important for the proper development of the child but also key to the creation of a society of stability and economic dynamism. investing in the early years of learning has long-term benefits for our children's future. the report makes a significant effort to examine the issue at both european and national level. i welcome the call for more european research in this area, for the identification and exchange of good practice at european level as well as the proper use of the structural funds and programmes in this direction.
in writing. it is a fact that there is diversity in the education systems of the eu countries, so the research and exchange of best practice that this report is dealing with will, in my opinion, produce significant results in improving early childhood education in the eu. in particular, because of the child-centred approach, universal rather than targeted services, parental involvement, better integration of services, i voted in favour of mrs honeyball's report on early learning in europe.
in writing. the report makes the obvious clear, among other things. support for innovation is not possible without support for research and training. and while there are no sure conclusions about when the economic crisis will end, the research targets set by the member states for 2020 are not being met under the current circumstances, nor are the targets set by the previous european strategy, the lisbon strategy. and the figures to date show that only - about - 2.7% of european gdp will be allocated to research by the end of the decade despite the clear commitment of member states to spend at least 3% on this purpose. at the same time, in justifying the crisis, member states' expenditure on education is being restricted. the two main pillars of innovation are being undermined rather than strengthened, and this should be a matter of concern to national governments.
in writing. there is no doubt that cultural diplomacy helps to build trust and foster long-lasting relations between eu citizens and citizens of third countries, and there is no doubt that europe's comparative advantage in cultural matters is strong and therefore a valuable political tool for its foreign policy. the new technologies offer new opportunities for the dissemination of european cultural goods and for strengthening transnational links. as the internet is a global meeting point, the eu must develop concrete policies to promote european culture. the european commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european year of the environment. the contribution of culture to the economies of the european countries, estimated at 2.6% of european gdp, should not be overlooked. it is clear that countries with rich history, tradition and culture, such as greece, have nothing to gain from promoting their cultural assets and values.
in writing. the cultural and creative sectors have a dual nature, on the one hand economic, as they contribute to employment, growth and wealth creation, and on the other hand, and above all cultural, as they contribute to the social and cultural development of citizens. but to reach their full potential, they need to meet two basic conditions, among others. firstly, to encourage the mobility and attractiveness of cultural agents, such as the mobility of artists, cultural professionals and works of art, and secondly, to ensure specific policies of financing and financial support for the cultural sector, such as access to resources through the european investment bank.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. however, conventional national accounts focus mainly on market transactions and indicators which reflect important factors in the creation of welfare but do not measure welfare itself. however, there are new shortages of natural resources. we need another boost in productivity, but also in quality. there's a strain on the physical receptors. by failing to account for the private and social costs of natural resource use and environmental degradation, conventional accounts can send the wrong message of progress to decision-makers, who can then put society on an unsustainable development path. the introduction of environmental and economic accounts is essential, but should not replace the development of alternative indicators to gdp covering the various environmental and social dimensions. the commission should submit proposals, before the start of the new multiannual financial framework period, to establish a limited set of composite indicators to be used as a complement to gdp in policy-making. these should include a monetised indicator, such as adjusted net savings, and a physical indicator, such as ecological footprint, carbon footprint, for the environmental dimension, as well as social indicators that incorporate the social dimension, such as an estimate of inequalities, e.g. the gini index, and an indicator of social inclusion and human well-being, such as the human poverty index. the original proposal for a european union regulation only provides for the collection and compilation of data on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes on various economic activities and the macroeconomic accounts for material flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals and amendments, and we believe that this will enable a comprehensive report to be adopted and that progress will be made in the area of environmental policy.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr jo leinen on his excellent report. it is really necessary to move on to environmental economic accounts. we can no longer see the economy and the environment as separate. the dual crisis we are facing - environmental and economic - leaves us no such scope. the absurdities of the past must stop. mr seeber gave the example of fukushima. another, simpler, everyday example is fires. a fire that destroys a forest, the biodiversity and the ecosystem services that the forest provides, that is, clean water, clean air, the framework for food reproduction, that destroys the cultural heritage of a place, that destroys agricultural production, that fire will be measured positively in gdp because investments will be made in restoration. and yet this country, this region, this region will have been affected for a long time. in the long run, she'll be poorer than she was before. the environmental and economic bills we're talking about today are not perfect. but it is an important step in the right direction. it is a step towards more correct policies based on a fuller, more objective picture of reality. it is a step which will allow us to be consistent in our policies, it will allow us to achieve international commitments, but also the objective of greening the european economy.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr leinen on his excellent report. i believe that europe has reached a point where we rarely see a conflict between development and environmental protection. we have entered a phase of interaction. europeans are environmentally conscious. the report will help us to get a better picture of what is happening to the environment in europe. i would like to stress three points: firstly, we must have accurate data on the state of the environment in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − madam president, many thanks for a very substantive and responsible debate. i think we all agree on the importance of this proposal and of environmental economic accounts. we also agree that we need to take the next steps to define policies using the data, to keep us on the path to a more sustainable economy. let me make a few points in response to a number of remarks. this is the first regulation, with three modules. it is the beginning in terms of legislation. the second batch of modules is now in preparation for a second, amending regulation towards the end of 2012. we are also already planning the third batch, so the work is ongoing and will be continued. concerning the issue of red tape, this will not create a new burden for enterprises because we are using existing administrative and statistical data. in fact the united kingdom is a leader in environmental accounting, which is also worth noting. moreover, concerning the statistics, and referring to what was said by mr leinen, mr martin and many others, we have made significant progress in improving the european statistical system over the past year and a half. for instance, the present commission made the very first legislative proposal on 10 february 2010 – the day after you had voted in favour of setting up the present commission – when we adopted a regulation on audit powers for eurostat, which gives eurostat the possibility of checking and verifying the quality of statistics at the source, which is very important. we have already started to use this, for instance in the case of greece. secondly, the action plan for greece is being implemented and within a year it has brought a very profound overhaul of the statistical system in greece. as a result the quality of the statistics on the excessive deficit procedure has greatly improved already, and in the latest round eurostat could validate the data for greece. finally, on resources, although we do not need resources for this particular subject of environmental economic accounts, i agree with mr martin that we need sufficient resources. in fact i took advantage of this part-session week to stop by in luxembourg to meet walter radermacher, the director general of eurostat, to discuss resources just a few hours ago. we are on the way to redeploying and improving our resources in eurostat in order to focus on our key priorities. but i would not take resources from enlargement, as mr martin suggested, and especially not from the western balkans. stability, democracy and peace in that region continue to be a key priority for the european union, for the commission and, i trust, for parliament as well. please remember that without our soft power, and without eu enlargement policy, ratko mladić would not be in the hague now. please remember that as well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the commission statement on the selection procedure for the new imf director-general and the external representation of the euro.
madam president, commissioner, it seems that the 21st century will be characterized by the war between political power and the power of financial institutions. there are countries on the planet that are literally governed by anonymous financial institutions and the citizens of those countries are driven and behaved and determined by what the markets will do. i believe that mrs lagarde is a worthy and competent representative of the european union, with a great deal of experience gained through this whole stormy period of the economic crisis, and i believe that she is a worthy representative of the european economy in the global economic governance.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, let me first thank you for a very substantive debate. i believe that there is a broad consensus in this house – not a full but a broad consensus – on the selection process of the next managing director of the imf. it has to be open, transparent and merit-based. i also sense that there is broad support – maybe not full but broad support – for mrs lagarde, who has already been endorsed by the eu member states and by the commission as their candidate for managing director of the imf. i want to make three points to respond to some of the views expressed in the course of the debate. first, the imf has played a key role, in cooperation with the european union, in overcoming the sovereign debt crisis in europe, for which dominique strauss-kahn made a major contribution as the managing director of the international monetary fund. while we still face considerable turbulence in some segments of the sovereign debt markets of certain countries, we have been able to contain the sovereign debt crisis and protect the ongoing economic recovery in europe. of course the work has to go on, and we still have difficult decisions ahead of us, not least in the coming weeks in june. but let us recall that there has been no lehman brothers catastrophe on european soil, and we have to make sure that there will not be. that would be detrimental to economic growth and improving employment in europe. secondly, we have had very good cooperation between the commission, the ecb and the imf, which was not self-evident when we started about a year and a half ago in terms of fire-fighting the financial turmoil. each of these three institutions has its own rules, its own philosophy and its own independence, and it was not self-evident that they could work together in order to overcome these challenges. however, i dare to say that a pragmatic sense of crisis-awareness has prevailed and helped us to cooperate in order to contain the sovereign debt crisis and protect economic recovery. thirdly, i do agree that we need to reform our external representation. as i said in my opening remarks, we now have a huge task, firstly to conclude the internal economic governance reform. we are just about to do this, and i count on you to enable us to do it in the course of june, before the summer break. this is extremely important for the credibility of the european union in these times of crisis. so let us all do our best in order to ensure that we will complete this indispensable reform of eu economic governance. in the long term, our goal is a single seat, at least for the euro area. in the short term, we need better practical and pragmatic policy coordination among the eu member states that are represented in the g20 or g7 or in the imf. i must say that i have seen plenty of concrete improvement in that regard, so that the eu member states that are represented in the g20 or in the imf or in the g7 mostly share common goals and are mostly working together as an orchestra and not with different voices. yes, we have plenty of room for improvement and we have to discuss this thoroughly. but, as i said, let us first conclude the internal governance reform and then we can come back to the issue of how to improve our external representation. the rights of the emerging economies mean that it is in the fundamental interest of the european union, its citizens and its member states for us to be more united and thus more effective in advancing our causes and our interests on the global scene.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr jean-pierre audy, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration activities (a7-0160/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr audy for his excellent report. the fp7 is one of the largest research programmes in the world, and it is good for us to do the mid-term evaluation. first of all i am delighted to see that there is a unanimous call for simplification measures for our rules on financing methods. secondly, it is important that we focus on the inadequate participation of smes in the programme and that we call for measures to improve this, especially since future growth and job creation in the eu depend on them. thirdly, i strongly support the marie curie actions. i would also like to add that it would be vital in the medium term to develop a mechanism to evaluate and assess the progress and the measurable impact of innovation policies and programmes in the eu. to conclude, i must say that the level of financing of fp7 must be maintained, as we realise that investing in r&d is key to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin, tá an coimisinéir de gucht as láthair faoi láthair agus d’iarr sé orm an ráiteas seo a leanas a chur in bhur láthair mar fhreagra ar cheist pharlaiminteach an fheisire moreira. today’s plenary debate on the negotiations for a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with canada is very welcome. so far these negotiations have run smoothly, and it should be possible to conclude the bulk of an agreement before the end of the year, with a formal conclusion early in 2012. however, we are also entering a stage of the negotiations where things are getting more difficult: in particular, because some of the outstanding issues are related to inherent differences in our economic structure or regulatory systems. this is a tremendously beneficial agreement for both parties, with positive impacts on business, investors and consumers alike, thanks to the very broad scope envisaged. in material terms we calculate that this could bring an additional eur 20 billion per year to both economies. where eu offensive interests, such as provincial government procurement, lie in areas of provincial competence, we have been assured that the provinces and territories of canada will be committed to the negotiations and to the implementation of the agreement. in relation to your particular concerns, eu member states have now reached an understanding on the usage of the so-called ‘negative list’ approach. a key reason why a trading partner like canada prefers a negative list is that it provides much greater transparency and legal security, because it makes very clear which services are excluded from market opening, including also where monopolies and exclusive rights may exist in the public sector. hence the negative list approach in no way prejudices the ability of an eu member state to continue to maintain the right to retain a monopoly in the future for a particular service. it remains up to the eu and canada to decide what commitments it is willing or not to undertake in each sector, including with regard to public services or other services where future policy flexibility is important. eu governments will continue to have the option of imposing universal public service obligations on private operators and of subsidising public services as necessary. trade agreements do not impose privatisation or deregulation obligations, and it will be no different for this ceta, which will include provisions on sustainable development covering economic, environmental and social aspects. such provisions will be fully integrated within the trade agreement. we note the concerns that have been expressed with regard to the wto panel on the eu’s seals ban and on canadian oil sands. while we understand these concerns, we believe that there are good reasons to keep these processes separated from the ceta negotiations. this being said, the negotiation – as in the case of any other trade negotiation – does not in any way impede the ability of the eu or its partner countries to draw up and implement environmental measures. more specifically, as regards the fuels quality directive, i want to make it absolutely clear that the negotiation and a future agreement does not and will not represent any negative interference with regard to the implementation of that directive. honourable members, we are moving closer to an agreement which will help to provide a much-needed boost to the economies of the eu and canada. we are looking forward to hearing parliament’s views during the debate today and the resolution that you will subsequently adopt.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the resumption of negotiations, at the initiative of canada, to upgrade bilateral cooperation through a comprehensive economic and trade agreement is considered positive, as the president of the committee, mr moreira, has pointed out. however, there is one issue that concerns us and it is linked to the federal structure of canada. i refer to the need for the agreement to be applied smoothly and uniformly by the individual sub-regional sub-structures. the trade relations between the two partners include important agricultural interests of both offensive and defensive character. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, for her excellent report. the full registration and protection of geographical indications is a priority given the increasing distortions suffered by quality agricultural products in the union. canada, like other countries that protect geographical indications through trademarks, is known to oppose the relevant union requests in the doha round negotiations. the different legislation of the individual provinces is an additional problematic aspect. as regards the question of genetically modified organisms, i would remind you that the union and canada have signed a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute. canada agreed to settle the dispute in exchange for a bilateral regulatory dialogue on biotechnology issues. i call on the commission to uphold, in the context of the ongoing negotiations, the high level of protection guaranteed by the european regulatory framework. finally, i would like to mention the issue of canadian state-owned agricultural trading companies, which are known to have wide powers and can operate as monopolies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. the union has also made this demand in the wto negotiations.
madam president, i would also like to refer to the issue of tar sands, an important issue because it is the reason why a corresponding agreement we have at the moment with canada, an international agreement, the commitments under the kyoto protocol, are not being respected. we hope that canada will take a different approach to the agreement we are discussing now. in any event, canada is anxious to secure through this agreement free trade and liberalized investment arrangements for the extraction of oil from sandy tar. the environmental impact study, which we paid for to evaluate this agreement, does not include an assessment of the impact of this release on the sandy tar. we have a trade agreement which refers to specific measures for the trade in oil from sandy soil and we have an impact study of this agreement which does not include an assessment of the impact of this particular activity. in the light of this, it is very difficult for this parliament to approve any agreement that is eventually reached. and that's because we're talking about boreal forests, about a quarter of the world's virgin forests, and this mining activity is threatening both these forests and the local biodiversity and the local indigenous populations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greeks, outraged, took the baton from the spaniards. in the midst of deep crisis, recession and unemployment, they are peacefully but deafeningly asking for a perspective of dignity for themselves, their families, their children. the crowd and passion is unprecedented even for a country with the intense political life and tradition of greece. this is a very serious political development of unforeseeable dimensions and implications. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must listen to mr reynders, the belgian minister for finance, when he says that in greece we must not go beyond the measures that society can bear because that is what destroys growth and the country cannot recover. no policy is sustainable without the support, or even the tolerance, of society, let alone when it comes to a policy that essentially boils down to the dilemma of debilitating austerity or bankruptcy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
madam president, i have been and remain a staunch supporter of the clean-up programme in my country. i am therefore entitled to point out weaknesses. firstly, the programme relies too heavily on taxation rather than on reducing government expenditure. the greek private sector, which is the only one able to pay off its huge debts, is being strangled. secondly, there is no rational planning today for the use of greek public property. thirdly, the programme is lagging behind, which, combined with the mixed messages to the greek public from europe, is shrinking political support for reforms. we live it day by day. we need a bolder programme that calls for faster adaptation but also offers serious development aid in the form of a european marshall plan. such a program would have a much better chance of success. and that success is what we all need.
madam president, hundreds of thousands of greek citizens of all ages and from all walks of life have been protesting peacefully for the past two weeks - i stress this - in squares throughout the country. two points: first, we must listen to them, listen to their concerns. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. secondly, apart from the discussion of the errors and omissions of the greek government, we must bear in mind the following: the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. see how much we can take!" in these messages, the answers must be clear and specific. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism.
madam president, immediately after the luxembourg meeting on 6 may, which was revealed by der spiegel, greece received a new wave of recommendations to leave the eurozone and return to the drachma. the official position of the european union was, of course, expressed by commissioner olli rehn, who disputed the rumour and the recommendations. but apart from the opposing views of economists and many of the colleagues in this chamber, it must be made clear that greece's exit from the euro is not possible for legal reasons. firstly, because the treaties do not provide for any means of voluntary or involuntary withdrawal from the common currency. secondly, any return to the drachma without abolishing the eurozone and the euro does not provide a legal possibility for the automatic drachmaisation of euro deposits in greek banks, inside or outside greece, without the consent of the depositor. when greece joined the euro area, conversion of drachma deposits was possible because the drachma was abolished as a currency and has not been used since. but now the euro is still there and not being abolished. therefore, any rumor or recommendation is not legally correct.
mr president, the credit rating agencies have long since lost their credibility. the rapporteur is absolutely right about that. they're rating up and down on almost everything, countries, banks, municipalities, even public companies, really everything, and the ratings are done with data that is almost unknown, largely unpublished and therefore opaque. the issue of opacity and therefore the reliability of the ratings agencies' data raises an important question: is it legitimate, is it reasonable, is it morally right that ratings that affect the economic situation and overnight upset the lives of millions of our fellow citizens be opaque and potentially unreliable? obviously not.
i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the report, but i am in favour of the report. such firms may not carry on commercial activities which are related to or similar to their audit or evaluation role. we call for the findings of these bodies to be audited and for certain basic principles to be established, and for liability to be established for damages suffered by countries which under- or fraudulently assess. i also propose that basic accounting principles be introduced and applied in all the member states of the european union, so that the value, the official valuation of the assets of these states, is also shown, so that we have an asset and a liability and so that these states cannot become dependent on the disposals of the rating agencies and those they represent.
mr president, for the second time in six months europe is facing a food crisis which has caused serious health problems for many people and has cost the lives of our fellow citizens. there is something wrong here, commissioner. in january we had the dioxin problem in germany; now we have the bacterial problem again in germany. the first case was covered when it had been known for months; the second case was easily transferred to cucumbers from spain. the problem is one of identification, traceability and insufficient control at european union level. in the first instance, mr dalli, in january you told us, when you were talking about dioxins, that you would take all the necessary measures to bring about stricter legislation in the food control system. the other day you said that this was not a problem of recognition, but there is another problem. the commission's attitude is one of confusion, cover-up, panic, and we are now mourning lives, mourning cases and mourning the consequences for agricultural production.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food supply in the eu is not affected by the food crisis. when two weeks later we have not even found the cause, but we have rushed to point out the culprits, we have created a credibility problem. we have been shaking up producers who, although they did their job well, were the scapegoats and are still paying today. we have shaken the confidence of consumers, europeans and others. we have created a rift in our trade and in our internal cohesion. this crisis is calling into question the european agricultural model itself and is testing the functioning of the internal market. it's no longer enough to say who's to blame and what's to blame. the commission must take consistent, permanent corrective action, one of which is traceability, which is a priority objective.
in writing. the new food scandal involving a new super-toxic bacterium, which has already caused dozens of deaths and serious health damage to thousands of workers, is added to the long, endless list of food scandals in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the new food epidemic proves that the eu is neither willing nor able to protect human life and public health, because as a transnational association of monopolies it is set up to serve and protect the profits of capital and not the lives of workers. the unsubstantiated and unscientific accusations of the german authorities against small and medium-sized farmers in the southern eu member countries, which the eu hastened to adopt, causing serious damage to the farmers of these countries, had the sole aim of covering up and hiding the anti-people - dangerous nature of the cap, the responsibilities of the eu, of bourgeois governments, of monopoly groups, which do not hesitate to feed workers with the most toxic and dangerous to their health, and are sufficient to maximize the profits of capital.
the general principle introduced by the directive on the transport of goods, namely the internalisation of external costs, is of particular significance and symbolic importance. it is a modern and at the same time flexible framework for the application of the 'polluter pays' principle, but also a tool for mitigating the congestion problems of major national arteries. this is why the concerns - some of them justified - expressed by many people about the uneven impact of the implementation on the periphery of the union and on the road transport sector should finally be put to rest. the compromise text, largely due to mr el khadraoui, also aims at the gradual introduction of the relevant charges to be accompanied by a gradual renewal of the european fleet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, but that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council regulation extending the scope of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the professional crossborder transport of euro cash by road between euro area member states. i voted in favour of it because i believe that extending the scope of the regulation is necessary and will solve problems concerning the safety of the personnel responsible for transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr brian simpson on 'international air transport agreements under the lisbon treaty', given that parliament now has a greater share of responsibility in negotiating international agreements. in addition, air transport agreements with third countries help to develop international air transport and ensure legal certainty.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - our idea - and i hope you will agree - is that the commission should be the one steering the exercise. i am very proud that the commission, together with the high representative, has immediately presented the blueprint for our response, the partnership for democracy in north africa, the southern mediterranean, and also the partnership for shared prosperity. the council now recognizes that it would be good if the commission were to take the lead. and the commission, of course, is accountable to parliament. so i can only welcome all the interest, all the efforts of parliament to be closely associated. and what is happening in some arab countries is really strategic, not only for those countries, but for democracy in the world, for the evolution of the muslim world, and for us in europe. so anything we can do to mobilise not only the european institutions but our societies in support of this challenge of democratic transition in our neighbours is very important and i can only welcome the interest of the european parliament.
mr president, on the occasion of the g8 summit, i read economic data for 2009 which showed that global gdp was 58 trillion dollars, while financial money was 615 trillion dollars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. economists disagree on a lot of things. but history has taught us two things: first, that you don't bail out the bankrupt by giving them expensive loans, and second, that severe austerity can never be reduced by a deficit in a macroeconomy that is in recession and that cannot devalue its currency. the eurobond, mr president, is becoming urgent. do you see it as a means of compensating for the rapid issuance of new currency by the united states?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - madam member, you have said exactly what i think. i couldn't agree with you more. we will now do so by using a number of instruments to verify effectively that the commitments made by the partner countries are being kept and applied with determination. i can tell you that not only the commission services but also the high representative, who will appoint a special representative for this region, will be monitoring all these programmes. we believe that it is in this kind of dialogue that we can help these countries, in particular by strengthening the participation of civil society. i was recently in tunisia, where i met not only the government and the president of the republic, but also representatives of civil society, women's organizations, trade unions. i've seen how important they think our engagement is, not just through governments but through civil society. again, as i said to mrs de sarnez, the european parliament's commitment would be very important in this respect too, in the context of relations with the parliaments and the political parties that are emerging in these young or new democracies.
mr president, at the recent g8 meeting you discussed the world economy and agreed that efforts should be focused on the objectives of sustaining public finances, of rebuilding economies, of tackling unemployment. and all of this is for the benefit of society and citizens. but, mr president, if we look at the example of greece, recently tens and hundreds of thousands of citizens have taken to the squares and streets around the greek parliament spontaneously, without guidance, but with indignation, in search of dignity and prospects. and you must agree, mr president, that no policy can be effective unless it has the support or at least the tolerance of society. this policy in greece is essentially limited to a dilemma between exhaustive austerity or bankruptcy. are you concerned about these social developments? it's a major political issue. what message do you have to send to these people who with great dignity, in a peaceful way, are demanding a perspective and a better future for themselves, their families and their children?
madam president, the recent clashes in abyei show how unfounded the celebrations of the united states and the european union after the referendum were. it has been proved once again that imperialist peace is as bloody as imperialist war. it is obvious that north and south, in the imperialist orbit, victims of competition and divide and rule, will hardly be able to avoid a direct clash. the oil, gold, copper, uranium deposits that abyei has is what for 20 years various imperialist powers have been trying to exploit. this competition is responsible for the risk of a new, even bloodier war, since now there will be direct involvement of nato, the us and the european union, as the eu forces seem to be seeking after the war in libya. it is imperative to put an end to all imperialist intervention in sudan, to all acts of hostility and confrontation between the north and the south. we believe that the people of sudan in the north and south should take their destiny into their own hands. only in this way can he avoid war and only in this way can he become master of his country's wealth to move on to another development.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i think it is obvious that the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen treaty must be accepted in accordance with the same rules as those applied to the admission of other states to the schengen treaty. i welcome mr coelho's report and his proposal on the need for additional measures by bulgaria to promote a specific action plan with greece and turkey because of the problem of illegal immigration at the greek-bulgarian border. i repeat, mr president, my firm position that the dublin ii treaty should be revised and that the frontex office in greece should be established on a permanent basis.
member of the commission. − in my answer i highlighted the measures that have already been outlined in europe 2020 and already they are making their way towards practice in various member states through effective commission programmes. it is also true that this is more of a horizontal issue for the commission, and there are in other eu initiatives very relevant proposals including, for example, the country-specific recommendations which we just published today, very important references to the need to reform education policies and improve the performance of education and training systems in various member states in order to better connect the substance of education and training with the needs of the labour market. this can qualitatively improve the employment opportunities of young people in a number of member states, including spain and others where the situation is the most difficult and where the reform of the education system was either delayed or ignored in the recent period. it is also important to highlight the single market act which, among other initiatives, aims at promoting the recognition of qualifications and diplomas, thus making the european labour market more transparent and more efficient, highlighting and raising more opportunities than in the past. it is also important to stress that many actions are supported by the financial instruments of the eu, especially in this context, the european social fund, but i should also mention the new microfinance facility that provides programmes, and in the latter case, entrepreneurship and self-employment opportunities, and i think these dimensions have to be reflected in the forthcoming mff proposal as well. i trust that the parliament will be supportive in this area within the mff.
member of the commission. − mr president, the question that has been raised by mr papanikolaou addresses – as do later questions – the different angles and perspectives of schengen, the migratory crisis and the pressure put on schengen. so let me first answer mr papanikolaou. earlier, we discussed mr coelho’s report and the need to safeguard schengen as one of the most beautiful achievements of the european union. the right to move freely is indeed a very important embodiment of the european project. more than 1.25 billion cross-border journeys are made by tourists within the eu each year. free movement is also a great boost and a benefit for the internal market, so safeguarding this achievement is key to the commission and an absolute priority for me personally. let me emphasise once again that the commission’s approach is to reinforce schengen, to improve the evaluation – as we already proposed before christmas – to clarify the rules, to identify the tools, to assist member states in need and, possibly, to introduce a mechanism which would bring a coordinated community-based response to exceptional situations, for instance when a member state fails to control its internal borders. the commission’s main objective is to have a preventive approach. the proposed changes to strengthen the monitoring mechanism, which is designed to maintain mutual trust between the member states and their capacity to apply effectively and efficiently the accompanying measures, will make it possible to maintain an area without borders. this will be done through more on-the-spot visits to check the application of the schengen acquis to member states. these controls could lead to recommendations to the member states for immediate actions and deadlines for implementing them. increased trust among member states will also reduce the recourse by member states to unilateral initiatives to temporarily reintroduce internal borders or to intensify police checks at internal border zones. the spirit of schengen is a spirit of trust and solidarity. it is important that the eu show concrete solidarity to the member states most affected by large-scale inflows of migrants and persons in need of international protection. this solidarity can take different forms by assisting, for instance, where the external border is under pressure. frontex plays a key role here and we have shown in the recent rabit intervention at the greek-turkish border, and in the joint naval operation hermes, that member states are ready to assist other member states. we must also foster daily cooperation between national authorities in the field of border surveillance. this is the purpose of the european border surveillance system (eurosur), which has been progressively developed since 2008 and for which the commission will present a legislative proposal during this year. we can also show solidarity by showing financial solidarity. there is a framework programme this year that takes into consideration the management of migration flows. we have a financial mechanism to improve the management of these flows at the european level and to strengthen the solidarity between member states. of course, we now have a large consultation process and we are under budgetary restraints, but you can count on me to ensure that there will still be money under this fund for the future as well. those member states most exposed to migratory pressures and located at the external borders of the eu must receive adequate financial compensation for the tasks they are carrying out in the interests of the schengen area as a whole – this by fair burden-sharing in order to support those member states affected by large inflows of persons in need of international protection. it must be clear that any decision on the relocation of irregular migrants and beneficiaries of international protection depends on the council and on the willingness of the member states. the member states have not yet expressed any support for such an approach on a general basis with, however, one notable exception – the pilot project on relocation to other member states for persons who have received international protection on malta. in order to give a timely follow-up to this, i organised a pledging conference a month ago. i am pleased to say that over 300 places were made available from member states and associated countries. others will hopefully be offered in the future as well. this is a sign of concrete solidarity. i want to thank those countries and i hope that they can also contribute in the future.
commissioner, thank you very much. i am in full agreement with you, and i think our parliament is in full agreement with you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at the same time - as you are well aware - there is a question of unanimity in the council on the question of bulgaria and romania. you spoke of trust. yes, we want to build trust continuously. but does denmark, by the choice it has made, accept your statement? the commission has also taken up the issue of the new mechanism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected.
member of the commission. − yes indeed, ordinary crime is also now being carried out on the internet because it is a useful tool, but there are also new kinds of crime that are facilitated by the internet, such as identity fraud or the plundering of bank accounts or suchlike. you can be assured that we follow this very closely. just recently, europol made some quite remarkable attacks on some of these gangs, identifying cross-border european gangs involved in child pornography, for instance, but also in trafficking and drugs, so there are a lot of experts at europol dealing with this. of course we need to do more. we need to connect all the alert centres in the european union, to share statistics, to share information and also to work more together with private companies in order to identify the solutions to this to a certain extent. we are also planning – and conducting a feasibility study right now – to set up a european cybercentre by 2013 to coordinate this work, to work as an alert centre and to support the different national cybercentres that already exist. we are following this very closely, and europol, together with the national authorities, is doing its utmost to try to combat this increasing crime.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will take both questions at the same time because they are almost identical. they address the challenge of maintaining and further developing schengen in view of the migration crisis. i did briefly touch on this in my reply to mr papanikolaou’s question, but these elements should of course be kept in mind in this context as well. in the question, ms ludford expressed concerns that the negotiations on the new schengen evaluation and suspension rules might be lengthy and difficult to agree upon and asked the commission to prioritise launching infringement procedures against member states in breach of schengen rules instead. let me be very clear on this: infringement of schengen rules cannot be tolerated, but one element does not exclude the other. we are also planning to follow a parallel approach. we are the guardians of eu law. the commission will continue to make sure that the schengen rules are correctly applied and respected by everybody. the basis of our work needs to be the existing legislation. i am convinced that the current legislation can cater for a vast majority of the situations. where there are any differences in interpretation or implementation, the commission should consult the member states in question and clarify the rules. this can be done by issuing guidelines or recommendations. the commission is ready to use all available means to ensure the correct application of eu law, including launching infringement procedures whenever such action is necessary. at the same time we will work on the preventive measures which should help us to avoid infringement procedures. in this context we now have ongoing negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council with a view to establishing a more efficient evaluation system for schengen. we are currently considering whether and how to complement this evaluation mechanism in order to create mutual trust and ensure a coherent application of the rules. regarding the danish government’s plan regarding controls on the danish internal borders, which ms koppa referred to, you will of course be aware that the president of the commission wrote to the danish prime minister immediately, pointing out that the first analysis by the commission raised major doubts about whether the proposed measures would be in line with denmark’s obligations under european and international law. president barroso emphasised that member states may not carry out systematic intra-eu border controls of goods or people and urged denmark to refrain from taking unilateral steps. we are now analysing the information provided by denmark and will then decide on further action. ms koppa also asked whether the commission will propose a revision of the principle of exclusive responsibility of the state of first illegal entry. i would like to underline that this is a principle according to which a person found irregularly on the territory of a member state is returned to the state of first entry into the eu. it is a specific rule under the dublin regulation, which establishes that the member states have to assess which member state is responsible for examining an asylum application lodged on their territory. it is therefore not an instrument designed to respond to the challenges related to irregular migration. in the commission proposal for a recast of the dublin regulation, this principle remains untouched. the member states that play the biggest role in the applicant’s entry into the eu should be responsible for examining his or her application for asylum. the european parliament expressed overwhelming support for this in its vote on the proposal in may 2009. this support was confirmed by the vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in november last year.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your clear answer on the schengen issue and for your reference to the redistribution of migrants between member states on the basis of demographic, economic and geographical criteria in a previous question. in any case, on the subject of the dublin ii regulation, i would like to point out that today for some countries, such as my country, greece, which are the external borders of the union and which actually take in about 90% of the migrants entering europe, the dublin ii regulation is not tolerable, it is not something that the populations can tolerate, it is not something that the countries can tolerate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already mentioned the importance it attaches to the concept of solidarity, to the fair distribution of burdens. and you have rightly reminded us that the negotiations on the resettlement of refugees from third countries are under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would like to know whether the commission is going to announce it soon. secondly, as regards dublin ii, i would like to make the following points in addition to what mrs coppa has said. france has suspended refunds to greece; germany also; the european court of human rights has condemned us for specific reasons, both for dublin ii and its operation. what else must happen to make us all understand that dublin ii must be changed immediately, as our parliament is demanding?
member of the commission. − i am sorry if there is a false impression about the commission’s views on schengen. i do not think i have spoken about anything other than schengen for the last month! i have emphasised how important schengen is, what a gift it is to the european union and that we must strengthen it and not weaken it. we look very seriously upon all reports of the suspension of schengen. we are engaged in dialogue with italy, france and denmark in order to clarify exactly what has been done, what is being proposed and whether it is in compliance with schengen rules. we are also looking at how we can strengthen the evaluation of schengen in order to make sure, beforehand, that the current peer review system, which is not very good, is exchanged for something that is done at a european level, with an increased role for the european parliament. we need to have more tools at our disposal to assist member states. we need to be better at issuing guidelines. we also need to clarify under what exceptional circumstances suspension can be carried out in order to avoid unilateral action that jeopardises the whole system. so you can rest assured that we will do our utmost to strengthen schengen and that we need more european engagement there, not less. dublin is of course related to this, but it is a parallel process. this is part of the negotiations on the asylum package that are currently taking place between parliament and the council. the commission has proposed keeping the responsibility of the first country of asylum in the dublin regulation, but also reintroducing an emergency mechanism in order to suspend that mechanism under special circumstances. this is very controversial in the member states; very few support such an emergency mechanism. it is one of the most difficult areas of the negotiations on the asylum package. so that is not the solution to the greek problem. in parallel with putting the asylum system in place for the whole of europe, which would also lead to greater burden-sharing – because if all member states have a system that works, all member states could receive asylum seekers – the solution for greece is to continue with the reform plans that are being implemented under the action plan in greece. the commission and the member states are supporting greece with a huge amount of money, expertise, interpreters and administrators. we are assisting greece in the important work it is doing to build up a system that is in line with european law. a lot has been done, but there is a lot still to do. this has to be done in parallel with the negotiations on the asylum system.
member of the commission. − i am grateful for the interest you have shown in the european globalisation adjustment fund. this year will be crucial for the fund’s future, because the commission intends to make a proposal on the rules governing the fund and the way will function in the next programming period. over the past few months, the commission has carried out consultations on this matter with the fund’s most important stakeholders. in particular, we have closely examined parliament’s own excellent report on the egf, which was drawn up by mr portas a few months ago. on the basis of experience gained with the fund in its present form and suggestions made during consultations, we have great hopes that our proposal will significantly improve the fund after 2013 and will in particular solve two problems with the current mechanism for financing. the first issue is the time it takes for a contribution to be granted once a member state has submitted an application. a large part of that time is taken up by assessing the application. the commission is looking at ways of clarifying or simplifying the information that the member states will have to provide to demonstrate that applications are eligible. a lot of time is also taken up with the need to request and obtain approval for each application from both arms of the budgetary authority. this also holds up payment of contributions from the fund, to the detriment of the workers, because some member states are reluctant to advance payments for training, job-search assistance and other measures. in addition, the number of applications submitted to the fund, and thus the overall amount applied for, has increased significantly over the last two years. this has made it increasingly difficult to identify sufficient margins from which to draw contributions. that is a problem. commission approval of applications to the fund in 2011 had to be postponed for the first time because sufficient payment appropriations could not be found quickly. i am sure you will agree that this is not helpful to workers who have been made redundant and need assistance quickly. we need to find solutions for these problems and bring the mechanism for financing the fund more closely into line with these objectives. at present, there are several options on the table. for instance, the fund could be part of the european social fund. it could have its own budget. the commission has taken no decision yet on the best way of addressing these issues, but it intends to table a proposal in autumn on the globalisation adjustment fund of the future, bearing european workers’ best interests in mind. i look forward to hearing your views.
at the beginning of the year, when asked whether greece had applied to activate the european globalisation adjustment fund, you answered no. this response made sense in the greek reality because of the economic and social situation in which the country is situated. my question to you is simple: after six months, has my country applied to activate the globalisation adjustment fund to support workers affected by the financial crisis? if yes, if you have this information, please tell me if it has been approved. if not, can you explain why greece has not made such a request?
member of the commission. − i am glad to hear in the discussion confirmation of the commission’s objectives in this exercise to bring the egf into the next financial perspective as a stronger and more effective instrument to support workers who have been made redundant. this case is also supported by the fact that, in the near future, fiscal consolidation will remain on the agenda in most of the member states, and they will find it extremely helpful if there is a strong, quick and effective eu-level instrument to support workers who suddenly find themselves out of a job. as i pointed out, some questions remain open, such as the relationship between the egf and the esf. as you know, the esf is implemented through shared management, and i believe that the management system of the current esf is not compatible with the objectives of the egf. no matter what eventual format we find, i think this question of management will be very important in influencing the final arrangements. i am not speaking about names, but about the need for a separate fund and the need to pay attention to speed in particular. of course even now, and probably also in the future, various member states will find it possible to fund programmes either from the egf or the esf and have some kind of room for manoeuvre, but it is very important just to keep the egf available for all member states in case there is a need to respond to sudden employment crises. the second question pointed to the problem of defining eligibility in the current regulation. this is also an issue we are looking at in order to have a greater level of clarity, but at the moment we are simply working on extending the temporary regulation until the end of this financial perspective. i am speaking here about the rules which have been introduced in response to the crisis and to make the egf more effective in tackling the impact of the crisis on workers.
member of the commission. − the commission acknowledges that the greek crisis has a high social cost for sections of the population in greece, but that cost is mainly the result of financial imbalances, diminishing competitiveness and financial difficulties: the very difficulties the memorandum seeks to resolve and not exacerbate. some claim that, because these are in the memorandum, it does not observe the principle of subsidiarity provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i do not believe that is true. the measures in the memorandum were drawn up in close cooperation with the greek government and endorsed by the greek parliament. that shows that they respect the principle of subsidiarity. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union backs up my opinion. article 28 of the charter stipulates that, in line with eu and national laws and practices, workers or their organisations have the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements at the appropriate levels, and, in cases of conflicts of interest, to take collective action to defend their interests, including strike action. however, article 51 of the charter states that its provisions are addressed to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the eu, with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity, and to the member states only when they are implementing eu law. there is no specific eu legislation regulating which collective agreements take precedence when they are concluded at different levels. nor is there any specific eu legislation regulating the possibility of extending collective agreements concluded at branch level by way of state intervention. these issues therefore fall exclusively within the remit of national law, with due regard for the relevant international obligations of greece, including the relevant conventions of the international labour organisation. i trust that i have answered the questions satisfactorily. i also trust that i have convinced you that the fiscal, financial and structural measures in the memorandum are vital if greece is to come out of the crisis. i hope i have allayed the fears some of you may have about the failure to observe the principle of subsidiarity.
i am sorry, commissioner, that once again your answer was not clear. you give me the same answer to written questions. if the commission does indeed respect that the status of collective agreements is a matter of national law, are you or are you not breaching your role under the treaties by calling for the substantial abolition of the status of collective agreements? the interpretation you give is not shared by the european trade unions which have denounced you for breach of the treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. please give a clearer answer.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, much has been said and i would like to add a different note to this meeting. years ago, i was having dinner with the late president gerald ford in the united states and he was describing to me how the g7 came about. he said he wanted to have a meeting with callaghan – i think it was – the british prime minister, on some issues and callaghan said why not combine this with a good game of golf? so ford said, well the canadian prime minister, trudeau, is a good player, we should invite him, and then trudeau – welcoming the invitation – said he had some issues to solve with the french, so why not invite the french prime minister. but then when they all discussed it over the phone, they said the germans are going to be very suspicious, so we need to invite them to this meeting. and when the germans accepted, they then said that italy was chairing the european union for these six months, so they had to be there. ford then said to me: you know, niki, this was the first time i realised you have a union that is so split, divided and unbalanced. one day, you should have a european budget that is strong enough to compete out there in the global world; the guys are going to be very tough out there. be careful. mr president, i am very pleased as an mep that i am living at this moment.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon has created new areas of competence and strengthened the union's policies, which is reflected in the formulation of the next multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2020. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr garriga, on his comprehensive report which sets out the political priorities of a europe different from the one we have known. given the major internal challenges facing the union itself and its citizens, and given its strengthened international character, we understand that the main objective of policy must be to reduce existing social, economic and territorial disparities. a prominent and successful cohesion policy is in itself a european added value and should be of benefit to all the member states of the union. the new seven-year programme and framework builds on the actions of the eu 2020 strategy and is driven by europe's recovery from the crisis by promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the political priorities and objectives shall be to promote employment, enhance innovation, research and development, address climate change, improve education levels, social inclusion, and combat poverty; the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's external relations policy, including migration policies and the provision of resources for the development of disadvantaged and remote areas. the union budget is the main mechanism for triggering solidarity between member states and a powerful tool for reform that could mobilise additional private and public resources to support investments that would act as a catalyst for the multiplier effect of union spending. the european budget must be increased, mr president, and it must be based on genuine own resources if we want a europe that is strong for its citizens and for the whole world. the union's budget is a tool for overall and integrated development at a time when the member states alone cannot... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, today parliament is sending a clear message to both the european commission and the european union's prime ministers for a budget by 2020 that is worthy of its responsibilities and the expectations of the citizens. the message is clear on cohesion policy. yes, to a cohesion policy with sufficient funding to make a decisive contribution to growth, to new jobs, to innovation. yes, to an autonomous cohesion policy. yes, coordination at all levels of policy-making from strategic planning to implementation. yes, in creating an intermediate category of regional support. yes, in special measures for island and mountain areas of europe. but also two clearly significant no's. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the european parliament's opinion on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in the republic of bulgaria and romania. this is a balanced approach as the opinion recognises the progress made by both countries in the criteria required for accession to the schengen area (land, sea and air border controls, visa issuance, police cooperation, readiness to connect to and use the schengen information system and data protection) but also requires regular reporting on the progress of certain issues considered to be pending. in this way parliament gives the green light to the accession of the two countries to the schengen area and to the equal treatment of their citizens, who so far do not enjoy the right of free movement. the european parliament's message will hopefully be the guide to reaching a consensus in the council for the final decision.
in writing. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the eu in 2007. accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen agreement is acceptable provided that the specific technical characteristics indicated in the relevant procedure are fulfilled as the rapporteur rightly points out, bulgaria's accession to the schengen agreement should be followed by a specific plan to combat illegal immigration. there must be cooperation on the management of land borders. in 2010, 47,000 illegal migrants were arrested after crossing the greek-turkish border on the greek side of the evros river, which marks the border between greece and turkey, representing 90% of the european total for that year. in this context, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to draw up a specific plan once bulgaria has joined schengen, which will include actions in this direction and a common approach between greece, turkey and bulgaria to be able to respond to a possible large increase in the migration flow.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area because bulgaria and romania have fulfilled the specific technical criteria. however, additional measures should be taken by bulgaria, in cooperation with greece and turkey, on the problem of illegal immigration.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr lambsdorf's report because i believe that the challenges facing the eu in a rapidly changing world require coordinated action at global level. the eu has more and stronger external representation capabilities under the lisbon treaty, and cooperation with the united nations and other international organisations is desirable and necessary for crisis management, peace-keeping and peace-building, and responding to international challenges such as the recent developments in japan.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr audy's report because i believe that investment in research and innovation is essential for competitiveness, growth and job creation in the eu. i consider the mid-term evaluation of the 7th framework programme for research and development 2007-2013 to be particularly useful for drawing useful conclusions through the assessment of the existing situation. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to simplify funding procedures and adopt a performance-driven approach and the criterion of 'excellence' and 'european added value' in eu spending. the research sector is one which can bring the greatest added value to the union. the public budgets are limited and private financial resources should therefore be mobilised to finance the forthcoming 8th research framework programme, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to increase the participation of industrial groups and small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. i voted against the report on credit rating agencies. it is politically unacceptable and economically dangerous that these agencies, which have played such a negative role in the present crisis, should continue to be given the right, by the eu itself, to assess not only the businesses but also the economies of the member states. the european parliament should have been more decisive and radical in its proposals against the actions of the opcw, especially after the damage they have caused to european economies and european citizens. the report is rather timid. the arrangements he proposes are cowardly, the oda regime of opacity remains the same to the fullest extent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the budget. the report should promote the functioning of a public, democratically controlled body, unconnected with private interests, which would assume this role in the context of the solidarity of states and their citizens.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr klinz because i believe that the measures it proposes to tackle the problems in the credit rating services industry are moving in the right direction. the influence of these agencies is enormous and the results of their activities can be devastating for the states and the rating agencies, as was shown very strongly by the recent financial crisis. it is necessary to establish transparent rules for their operation, to make known the evaluation procedures they use and to have a sense of responsibility on their part. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the three main rating agencies rate 95% of economic activity, so we are talking about a monopoly with all the adverse effects that this can have. we call for transparency, the curbing of illegal activities, accountability, the evaluation of these bodies by independent bodies that guarantee their impartiality and the strict application of the rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of social policy, the promotion of social standards at work and european corporate social responsibility. our aim is to promote labour and social standards and european corporate social responsibility outside the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the common social standards we have been advocating are under threat, and now the intention to promote different social and labour standards within the eu itself is becoming clear. the situation in my country, greece, where unemployment rates for 25-year-olds are 36.1%, and in spain, where the same rate is 43%, is very different from that in the strong european economies. this report reminds us that if the eu is to become a world leader in social policy, it must ensure that the social policies of its member states are consistent.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr falbr's report as i believe that the promotion of corporate social responsibility (csr) in europe should be strengthened in order to respond directly to the need to defend common values and to increase solidarity and cohesion among europeans. csr (corporate social responsibility) must be the main aspect of the european social model, with the aim of boosting innovation and competitiveness in a way that contributes to employability and job creation, at a time when unemployment rates are rising dramatically and young europeans, our sustainable power, are looking for ways out of europe's borders.
in writing. europe is a key player in globalisation processes and has a significant share of responsibility for producing outcomes that contribute to sustainable forms of development. the european union is a leader in promoting social policies at world level and calls on developing countries to respect the ilo conventions. the falbr report also refers to the importance of corporate social responsibility (csr) and its observance by eu companies, as its implementation by eu companies makes a decisive contribution to areas such as promoting the welfare of societies, protecting the environment and fighting poverty in the countries in which they operate. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. this vile report reflects the eu's strategic desire to emerge stronger in the field of monopolistic competition with the other imperialist centres by promoting the inclusion of education in the measurable objectives of the reactionary eu 2020 strategy that must be "transformed" into national objectives. in the context of this overall planning, a special place is given to technical and vocational training, which is assigned the role of serving the needs of a labour force as cheap as possible and without rights, worthy of the "labour market" and "competitiveness". the training programmes must therefore be adapted to both current and future market needs. subordination to the choices and plans of capitalist enterprise must be strengthened, 'employability' and entry into the labour market through apprenticeship facilitated, mobility in sectors of the economy, the so-called accessibility between levels of education and training. behind the declarations of equal opportunities and free choice and meeting the needs of young people lies the adaptation to the needs of the capitalist economy which means a policy of class barriers in education adapted to the working middle ages of the memoranda and europe 2020.
in writing. the report as a whole is guided by the logic of linking vocational education and training to the needs of the market and of enterprises in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, a strategy which further dismantles the social fabric and workers' rights. while it does make some positive references to general principles of the 'humanisation of work', the promotion of creativity and the need for access from the informal to formal learning, all of these remain hollow, empty of content and simply embellish the report, which in essence promotes neoliberalism in every process and stage of training and education, even at the highest level. for example, it calls on member states to support doctoral and post-doctoral programmes that support competitiveness and promote 'labour mobility' actions, including job security. finally, among the most important shortcomings of the report is that it asks the member states to 'ensure the mutual recognition of certificates and degrees between member states', which pushes towards the recognition of degrees from various colleges, greek or foreign, as 'equivalent' to those of public universities. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. this own-initiative report, in which the committee responsible has incorporated a number of proposals from the committee on culture and education, aims to alert the eu and the member states to the need to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, particularly in the field of employment and training. specific challenges are taken into account, such as: the increasing demand for qualifications from the labour market, which is putting low-skilled jobs at risk; the rapid rise in youth unemployment, which exceeds 30% in eu countries, including greece; and the failure of member states to take sufficient action to achieve the objectives set under the europe 2020 strategy (e.g. reducing the proportion of early school leavers to 10% and increasing the proportion of young people completing university education to 40%). however, alongside the social protection of citizens with fewer skills or a low level of education, there is an urgent need to invest in new skills, especially those required for jobs in strategic sectors for development, a crucial point for greece as well.
in writing. tackling youth unemployment is one of the most important challenges facing the eu. to tackle this problem we need to invest further in the education and training of young people so that they are equipped for future challenges in an increasingly demanding labour market. it is also very rightly said that the european social fund could make a further contribution towards training the economically weakest. the proposal to facilitate labour mobility within the internal market is particularly important, as i have said on several occasions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr mitchell's report as it sets out substantive and correct guidelines for the future establishment and operation of the development cooperation financing mechanism, drawing useful lessons from the current use of the development cooperation instrument. eu funds for development cooperation are a real mechanism to fight poverty, promote democratisation and development for developing countries. the eu has enhanced its international presence through the lisbon treaty and is called upon to respond to challenges such as climate change, the fight against poverty, and the transmission of the rule of law and democratic values to developing countries. i agree with the rapporteur on the need to strengthen democratic accountability in the whole of eu development policy and the active role that parliament should have in the process of approving development aid funds, as is apparent from article 290 tfeu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a european contract law for consumers and businesses, which can help facilitate cross-border transactions and strengthen the internal market, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and consumers. the differences in contract law in the various member states are an obstacle for smes to carry out cross-border transactions. a flexible procedure is needed to provide certainty for smes and consumers and to protect the rights of the parties. the creation of an optional instrument that will serve as a model for smes and operate alongside national rules by giving parties more choice is therefore the most appropriate strategy.
in writing. i believe that it is essential to improve the functioning of the internal market and to develop all the possibilities for businesses, in particular smes, and consumers. in this context , mrs wallis ' report is moving in the right direction: refers to the negative impact on both consumers and businesses of contract law divergences within the internal market and the benefits of an improved contract law framework for the internal market. i believe that this requires the creation of a user-friendly, flexible, clear and, if possible, binding legislative instrument for the member states, which will facilitate and provide legal certainty to the contracting parties, without interfering with national laws and without harming the economically weaker.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on gdp and beyond measuring progress in a changing world, for the following reasons. it is well known that gdp is an indicator that measures macroeconomic activity and cannot be used to measure other things. the development of new indicators is therefore necessary, and this is the subject of mrs rosbach's report. i believe that the gdp indicator has its limitations and that indicators should be developed to complement it. the report deals with these issues, which i consider to be very important and which require an immediate solution, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the galileo programme. the european ambition to develop a european satellite navigation system, based on a network of 30 satellites and offering superior geolocation services, ensures europe's independence and autonomy from other global navigation systems, as well as its share of the important global high-tech market, currently led by the usa and japan. galileo will also be able to support the implementation of advanced traffic management systems for all transport modes (road, air, sea, etc.) which will improve efficiency and reduce the impact on the environment. in the field of agriculture, galileo will be able to support the improvement of agricultural efficiency by ensuring more efficient use of land and water, reducing the need for fertilisers and pesticides. however, the questions raised in my previous question to the commission (e-0339/10) concerning the very high cost of this project remain unanswered. the initial estimated cost of the programme was eur 3 330 million (of which eur 1 800 million was borne by the public sector), which increased to eur 5 580 million, all borne by the public sector in a particularly difficult economic period.
in writing. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, which will be able to provide the necessary information to the public and to the media, and for the development of a european information and communication network. the figures from the current financial framework show that the eu budget is not only not being used to meet people's needs, but is being used against them, to support the profitability of monopoly groups. it is a blatant lie that a key element of the report is the european parliament's alleged demand for an increase in eu budget expenditure after 2013 of 5%. its main element is that it demands that not only this increase, but the entire expenditure of the eu budget be directed towards promoting the barbaric measures unleashed by capital - eu and bourgeois governments against the working class and popular strata in all member states. it demands that the money of the workers of the member states financing the eu budget be used to promote capitalist restructuring, to eradicate workers' rights, to support the profitability of eu monopolies, to strengthen the mechanisms of the 'memoranda' and to secure the creditors of the debtor member countries, to strengthen the repressive mechanisms and the imperialist interventions of the eu.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the views of all my colleagues. i would like to start by saying that we all agree that the fight against crime is not only a national matter but also a european matter. the european arrest warrant has marked an important step forward in the fight against crime by contributing to the creation of a european judicial area and to the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. it also strengthens the free movement of persons within the union - something we have been discussing very much recently in connection with the schengen treaty - by ensuring that the opening of borders does not benefit those who seek to escape justice. there are certainly also voices of protest - and i agree with what mr voss and other colleagues have said - about the incomplete and disproportionate implementation, often at national level. we also discussed cost and proportionality and everything we need to implement to strengthen the arrest warrant. but i would remind you - and we have seen this in greece recently in important cases - that even today there are people who are being prosecuted for serious crimes of fraud and corruption in a member state of the union and disappear or manage to escape and avoid arrest by making use of different procedural provisions and different regulations in different national laws. i therefore think there is no doubt about the value of the european arrest warrant. in conclusion, i would like to stress that you are right, commissioner, when you say that we should make the most of interpol and strengthen the collection of information from the schengen system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, first of all i wish you success at tomorrow's summit, where among the issues to be discussed are those of world governance, the world economy, russia's accession to the wto, as well as international issues, including developments in north africa and the middle east. russia is the european union's third largest trading partner. the european union's exports to russia amount to eur 65.6 billion, and official statistics show that, despite the unfavourable circumstances, the russian economy is growing at a rate of over 4%, which will be sustained for a long time. the european union is committed to the development of the russian economy, and its economic and social development is a key element of the union's economic and social development strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for a valuable contribution on mongolia. this was a short but very interesting discussion on bilateral relations with this increasingly important partner for the european union. in addressing one or two questions raised during that debate, let me say that the partnership and cooperation agreement covers cooperation on four main issues: firstly, principal norms and standards, secondly, sustainable development, including environment and social development, thirdly, trade and investment, with a special focus on raw materials and, lastly, justice and freedom, including the issue of migration. on the timing, the agreed text has been presented to the european union member states which will have to agree to its signature. the uk house of commons european scrutiny committee is currently examining the uk’s opt-in on justice and home affairs matters covered within a number of the partnership and cooperation agreements. i do not want to speak on behalf of the house of commons, but the procedure is expected to take between six and eight weeks. thus it could lead us to eventual signature in september at the next eu-mongolia joint committee. although they are separated by long distances and have experience of different political systems, the european union and mongolia both share traditions of tolerance, openness and equality. with the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, the european union will be mongolia’s so-called ‘third neighbour’, not only in words but in deeds. before concluding, let me come back to another concrete question which i ignored – i am sorry about that oversight. there will be a special meeting tomorrow in vienna within the framework of the osce’s permanent council. the member states will be addressed by mongolia’s minister of foreign affairs and trade. i have in front of me a draft of the eu statement. i can only say today that we will welcome mongolia’s intention to step up relations with the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. we will decide tomorrow whether to give any more details. by delivering on its commitments – and let me stress that – mongolia has strong potential to be a good example in its region.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the application of the eia directive in austria, by erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000084/2011 b7-0314/2011)
we are noting this matter, mr. howitt, and we will pass it on.
this is not a procedural matter and you must bring it before the committee responsible.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i think we can all agree that this case has not been handled correctly. but the handling of the case is in the interests of our european work. we have found that in this case the thresholds were probably applied incorrectly, a screening was not carried out and therefore the environmental impact was not sufficiently objectively assessed. secondly, the eia law in austria would have to be adapted or supplemented to comply with the directives of the european union, i.e. your requirements. thirdly, it is important to us that for further actions in this area, for my part for further parking or other construction actions, a special screening for the whole project, including existing areas and building stock measures, should be carried out. you could also say that the region is under a certain amount of increased surveillance. for skiers like myself, the issue of noise emission often seems to be more important than the issue of environmental damage in the region at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. i'm not being serious. the commission will then be able to initiate infringement proceedings. we are not threatening to do so, but the possibility remains. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. what is mr potočnik up to? the first is to introduce new policy objectives. ec internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons secondly, the judgments of the european court of justice which have led to important clarifications should be included. the question put by mr lichtenberger is this: we have found that the eia law in austria is now sufficient on the subject of thresholds. the question of whether and how the issue of transparency, citizen participation and public consultation is adequate - both formally and materially - is still being examined. i am happy to assure you that my colleague mr potočnik will give you a full written answer in the coming weeks as to whether it is in line with our directive also in terms of transparency and citizen participation. i therefore believe that we can also draw from this case and other findings a satisfactory further revision of the european directive next year. mr wieland asked how the definition of area is to be seen. we will provide you with a written reply to this. i think that when you build a conveyor system, you can't just include the square meters underneath the rope, so not just the elevator track that's one meter wide by a thousand meters long. conversely, it cannot be the whole mountain, whereby "black drivers" are the best drivers when they drive on black tracks. but in a narrower sense, what is shown on runways should in any case be included. so what is basically subject to slope maintenance, what is also worked accordingly, what is increasingly also being cut, is for me part of the development of the mountain and therefore necessarily added to the threshold value. if necessary, this should also be defined clearly in the further development of the directive. how can we intervene sooner? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a fundamental problem here, because our treaty structure is subsidiarity and the responsibility for complying with european law lies first and foremost with the member states as our local administrations and enforcers. i assume that in austria in particular, too, this case has taught a sense of economy/ecology in the goods balance for the future and that this case can therefore be a good one for the future.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the misleading practices of business directory companies by mr erminia mazzoni and mr malcolm harbour, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000087/2011 - b7-0315/2011)
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission shares the concerns and the critical analysis of the european parliament. there are misleading practices by address book companies and this is causing problems for many companies and businesses. they commissioned a survey three years ago and thousands of complaints were received. we're assuming this is just the tip of the iceberg. this means that the number of people who may feel misled is likely to be many times higher. my colleague reding is currently collecting her own data to see the scale of the problem once again. i would like to emphasise that these practices are already prohibited by the 2006 directive 114 on misleading and comparative advertising and by the anti-fraud safeguards in various member states. but some fraudulent practices are cross-border, occurring in business-to-business transactions and are currently difficult to prosecute. in order to address and remedy this problem, mrs reding is planning to issue a communication by the end of this year reporting on the state of implementation of the existing directive on misleading and comparative advertising and on current further possibilities for its revision and evaluation. it is thinking of improvements in terms of content, of the consequences of the misleading practices, and it is considering how to improve cooperation between national authorities in the prosecution of crossborder cases. the commission is also proposing to increase awareness among citizens and businesses of the widespread phenomenon of fraudulent address book companies and to increase publicity. the 2006 directive has been implemented in all member states. nevertheless, in the run-up to the communication now planned, the commission has asked the member states to report on enforcement and on measures and to submit a progress report to us immediately. the commission has also organised a conference with the authorities of the member states, stakeholders and third parties at the end of may. the focus was on fraudulent practices by address book companies, mostly of a cross-border nature. the hearing showed that there is a need for systematic cooperation, i.e. better cooperation between the authorities of the member states, and that is also what mrs reding's communication at the end of the year is intended to do. i can assure you that this matter is as urgent for us as it is for you. that is why we want to take the next steps as soon as possible. but we must, for formal reasons, involve the people concerned in an appropriate way and we need the necessary time. on the basis of the results of the consultations and after considering all arguments, the commission intends to take further remedial action to prevent misleading cross-border practices that are relevant under criminal law. thank you for your strong support in this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i will describe the suffering suffered by a fellow greek citizen who reported to me a similar experience he had from such a misleading advertisement. he even handed me all the relevant documents. so at the top of the document that the misleading company sends out it says that the information is free of charge. our fellow citizen, obviously seeing that he must fill in certain information, fills in the information and sends this letter. in very small print at the bottom of the document it says that he must pay, as mr busuttil said earlier, eur 1 000 a year. then, after a while, the so-called legal department of the company sends letters - i have the letters here - asking my fellow citizen to pay € 3,529,38 because there are also the interest and the fee for the company's legal assistance. the commission is aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. the stockholm programme states that we must deal with these issues immediately. we are close to our fellow citizens, we are close to their daily problems. we must make our fellow citizens understand that we are not far away, that we are not only concerned with the big european issues. we're close to them in their daily lives. we need to resolve this matter immediately.
madam president, unfair trading practices are like water. as soon as they find a crack, they're gonna burrow in. and here they found two wrecks. one is the 2006 directive, which has already been mentioned; the other indent is in the regulation on cooperation between member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already said that it has been at least three years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the european parliament to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. do something and do it fast!
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful for the broad and consistent position expressed by the members who are present and committed and i will report back to my colleague mrs reding and encourage her to prepare a comprehensive communication by the end of the year on the strengths and weaknesses of the existing european and national legislation and to amend the directive on that basis. first of all, we have to note that the 2006 directive has been transposed in the member states. so we do not have a problem primarily of transposition into national law. but first, in crossborder cases, because of the lack of optimal cooperation between the authorities in the member states, many cases are not applied at all and are not followed up at all. secondly, there is often a lack of enforcement. the criminal law is a matter for the member states, both in the substantive determination of penalties and in the formal prosecution of cases by the authorities, by the public prosecutor or by the courts. thirdly, i come to the point. the 2006 directive covers unfair commercial practices only in business-to-consumer transactions and not business-to-business. in other words, it protects the individual against these fraudulent companies and does not protect the individual as an entrepreneur, as a freelancer, as a trader, as a craftsman, as a small businessman, from these fraudulent companies. but this very point, to extend the scope of the directive to business between companies, was not wanted by most member states in the legislative procedure at the time. in other words, at that time, on the basis of a directive, the european rules were deliberately limited to the relationship between fraudsters and citizens, and not between fraudsters and small businesses. in this respect, what you are now rightly complaining about in practice was not wanted as a european regulation at the time. the directive was an ambitious european project at the time, and the commission was concerned that the whole proposal would be thrown on the wall, that there would be no directive at all if the commission had insisted on extending it to the fraudster/citizen relationship. it is possible that in the light of the specific examples you have given here and the cases of abuse uncovered by the commission, it may now be possible to extend the directive to include fraudsters/citizens in the amendment due to come next year. we'll work on it without delay. finally, there are member states where the relationship between fraudsters and citizens is also satisfactorily regulated by substantive and criminal law and where the relevant cases are also punished. i can give examples from austria, belgium and france. there are other member states - you have mentioned some of them here - where this is precisely what is not satisfactorily regulated in their national law. it remains to be seen whether, in a year's time, these member states will be ready to agree in the council to a general, europe-wide and uniform system for the protection of citizens as entrepreneurs.
i have received a motion for a resolution from the committee on petitions tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on stress tests at eu nuclear power stations and nuclear safety in eu neighbouring countries.
madam president, since chernobyl, for acute personal reasons, i have been a very committed opponent of nuclear energy plants. after fukushima, the first victims there were the workers and the firemen. so as an obedient, committed citizen against nuclear plants, i have submitted a written declaration for an expression of solidarity for the heroic efforts of fukushima – the workers and the firemen – and i was really very surprised to see that up till now we do not have even one signature from your group. how committed are you? at the first step of paying our tribute... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that i trust in his sincere efforts to fight nuclear disasters and i trust his sensitivity and objectivity in providing europe with a safety net against nuclear disasters. i consider that stress tests should be undertaken not only within the european union and neighbouring countries, but at a global level. this is a global issue. hence i welcome the comments made by the united nations secretary-general, ban ki-moon, who stated that he will convene a high-level meeting in vienna on 24 june. i hope that the commissioner will be there. the un secretary-general has set out five points on nuclear safety and, from what i have seen, they tally with the rules the commissioner brought to us and on which he briefed us as to how we should proceed. in vienna we have an international meeting, under the umbrella of the united nations. then, on 22 september, we will have a very high-level meeting on nuclear safety at the united nations in new york. in my opinion, that is how we can cope with this issue. europe is not the only place or continent facing nuclear disasters, so let us face the issue with a global approach.
i thank mr mauro for this very good point. i think that the whole of parliament is deeply sorry and bitter about the decisions taken and i can only repeat what parliament has already clearly said on this subject on two occasions. with this regret and with this clarity we will convey our indignant reaction to the brazilian authorities.
mr president, we welcome the delegation and we would like to give the floor to mr papastamkos.
mr president, in addition to my colleagues zwiefka, susta, mitchell and bennahmias, i should like to thank the colleagues who signed declaration no 7. i hope that parliament's strong message will encourage the commission to exercise its coordinating role in the fight against corruption in sport more effectively.
in writing. hundreds of people have been killed in the disputed abyei region between north and south sudan. recently the united nations announced that at least 20,000 people have fled the city of abyei and have taken refuge in the south after the northern army occupied the area. as the joint motion for a resolution rightly states, it is necessary for both sides to put forward concrete plans for the establishment and reform of their institutions so that the two states are fully autonomous, that hostilities cease and that democratic governance is pursued in order to achieve lasting peace and security in the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on sudan and south sudan because i support all the development efforts made by the eu to bring peace and reconstruction to this much-suffering region. the latest developments in the region raise concerns about compliance with the terms of south sudan's recent independence referendum, and the escalation of violence in abyei province is a negative development that threatens to destabilise the region more generally. the african union has an important role to play and together with the help of the eu and the un must keep their eyes open at this critical time so as to prevent any retreat to war. i welcome the council's communication on further financial assistance to south sudan and support the recommendation to maintain eu humanitarian aid in the region beyond 9 july. i believe that both proposals are necessary and will help to establish south sudan as an independent state and in any emergency that may arise.
in writing. russia is a neighbour and an important partner. the dialogue between russia and the eu should be extended in all areas and we should move towards a strategic partnership for our common future. i believe that we have common interests with russia which we should exploit constructively and reach concrete agreements on trade, energy, moving towards a transparent and credible energy policy and facilitating the movement of people between russia and the eu through visa facilitation. issues such as reducing corruption and establishing a rule of law in russia in accordance with international rules would help cultivate stronger trade and political relations and we expect developments in these areas. we want to hope that russia will behave like a modern democratic country.
the request is denied. the order of business is so fixed.
the agenda shall include the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 23 and 24 june 2011.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, president of the commission, honourable members, this is the last occasion i have to address this house on behalf of the council in a plenary debate. in january, we promised to run a parliament-friendly presidency. aware of the consequences of the lisbon treaty, we realised that close cooperation with the european parliament and its members would be essential for the success of any presidency in the future. the european public looks to the eu for results, without bothering too much with distinguishing between parliament, commission and council. and they are right in doing so. we have a common responsibility and therefore our success or failure is shared. the forthcoming european council marks the end of the hungarian presidency. therefore, this debate is a golden opportunity to give an account of what it has achieved on a number of dossiers, in close cooperation with this house. let me start with economic policy. the european council will bring the first european semester to a conclusion. it brings together in one policy cycle the two arms of economic recovery: financial stability that is based on fiscal consolidation, reflected in stability and convergence programmes, and structural reforms for a smart, sustainable, socially-inclusive and job-creating growth. thanks to the excellent cooperation between commission, council and member states in handling national reform programmes and recommendations, the first european semester has lasted a semester, and not a day longer. the european council will be invited to endorse the country-specific recommendations approved by the council, which should be reflected by all member states in their national decisions as regards their budgets and structural reforms. even in the trialogue negotiations, we included a reference to the european semester so that parliament could be duly informed of these developments. regarding the euro plus pact, most of the member states participating have presented commitments amounting to more than a hundred separate measures in total. those commitments are a good step towards achieving the objectives of the pact, which must now be implemented at the national level. however, the degree of ambition and precision of these initial commitments is uneven. in preparing their next commitments, member states will ensure a broader scope, a more concrete approach and a higher degree of ambition. allow me now to turn to the six legislative proposals on economic governance, called the ‘six-pack’ in our common jargon. i will not go into detail as it is on the plenary agenda in its own right. let me just remind you that the hungarian presidency was given a mandate by the european council to reach political agreement with parliament by the end of june. after the adoption of a general approach by the council in march, we got down to business immediately, engaging in intense trialogue negotiations with parliament and the commission. the three institutions have done immense work. the initial position of parliament carried approximately 2 000 amendments. by now, we have managed to reduce the outstanding issues to one single major issue and some technicalities. i am convinced that the text we have on the table now is stronger and more suited to preventing future crises. we will inform the president of the european council accordingly, thus reporting back to the body which gave us this mission. i have been personally involved in fascinating talks with many members of this house. i take this opportunity to thank you all sincerely for this experience. as a parliament-friendly presidency, we hope that the results which have brought us to the verge of agreement will not be wasted. the financial markets, european business and, most importantly, our fellow european citizens, expect us to show responsibility and decide and act against indebtedness – the chief predicament of our economies. finally, we know too that the issue of greece will be also on the agenda of the european council. let me now turn to justice and home affairs. the european council will address strategic issues relating to asylum, migration and schengen; building on the conclusions adopted by the justice and home affairs council of 9 june 2011. in the light of recent developments, the european council will discuss ideas and provide more political guidance and cooperation in the schengen area. it will also discuss ideas as regards a possible safeguard mechanism. but let me stress that the good functioning of schengen requires member states to fully implement the rules and thus enhance mutual trust among themselves. it also requires an effective and updated monitoring and evaluation system. let me touch upon the free movement of persons. it belongs to a different chapter of the acquis comunautaire than schengen, yet they are inextricably linked. both belong to the most visible and popular achievements of european integration. the member states are aware of this and fully intend to safeguard them. the logic behind schengen is unchanged: ever more efficient management of the external border is the precondition for travelling without border controls within the schengen zone. as you know, there have been intensive negotiations on the frontex amending regulation. we have in frontex a european tool par excellence which is essential for controlling our external borders. the presidency welcomes the positive result of the most recent trialogue meeting. member states are discussing the results this afternoon and we are optimistic that an agreement can be reached in time for the european council. regarding the european asylum policy: recent developments have put this under strain. safe and efficient asylum procedures are required for people in need of protection. it is therefore crucial for the common european asylum system to be completed by 2012 – a system based on high protection standards combined with fair and effective procedures capable of preventing abuse and allowing for rapid examination of asylum applications in order to ensure its sustainability. the european council will also review the progress on the preparation of the plans for capacity development to manage migration flows and refugee flows. the objective must be to address the root causes of irregular migration. to that end, partnerships will be developed with southern neighbourhood countries. as a first step, a wide-ranging structured dialogue on migration, mobility and security will be established with those countries, with the aim of securing tangible benefits for them as well as for the eu. let me now say some words on croatia. closing the accession negotiations with croatia was listed among the top priorities of our presidency. as a result of the tremendous efforts made by croatia, the commission and the presidency with the essential support of this house – for which it deserves immense credit – the european council will call for the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia by the end of june 2011. the signing of the accession treaty before the end of the year is being envisaged. these developments bring a new momentum to the european perspective of the western balkans. the european council will return to this matter at its december 2011 meeting. in this context, it is expected to welcome the arrest of general mladić and his transfer to the hague. serbia has taken a giant step towards eu accession. regarding the southern neighbourhood: the european council is expected to endorse the new approach to relations with the eu neighbours which was agreed at monday’s foreign affairs council. given the serious developments in parts of the union’s southern neighbourhood, the european council is also expected to adopt a declaration on recent events in the region. among other issues, let me inform you that the european council is expected to appoint mario draghi as the next governor of the european central bank on whom this house takes a vote. last but not least, the european council is likely to endorse the eu strategy for the danube region and the eu framework of national roma integration strategies, thus realising two further priorities of the hungarian presidency. the danube strategy is designed to enhance opportunities for an entire region that embraces a diversity of member states and third countries in the western balkans – nations, peoples and communities alike. with the eu framework of national roma integration strategies, we will tackle the plight of the roma people for the first time at european level and turn it into an opportunity for all of us. a special thanks to this house for producing such an excellent report – the járóka report – and the decision, which was an excellent base for our work in the council. europe thus will show that, in the words of prime minister orban, it ‘has a heart and not only a brain’. mr president, president of the commission, honourable members, the hungarian presidency chose ‘strong europe’ as a motto. let me express hope that you will agree with the judgment of president buzek, who recently said ‘after the hungarian presidency europe will be stronger and better’. thank you again, from the bottom of my heart, for your cooperation in the last six months.
president of the commission. − mr president, this week’s european council has a very substantive agenda. minister győri has presented the agenda in general, on behalf of the hungarian presidency of the council. i wish to thank her, at this juncture, for the commitment shown over the course of these six months. let me focus on some specific points: i have written a letter to the members of the european council outlining the positions of the commission on what i believe are the most important items on the agenda, and i would like to share our positions with you. at the end i will also make some comments regarding greece. this european council will take very important steps towards ensuring that the european union’s economic policy-making is both more coherent and more effective. firstly, we have the economic governance package. i would like to thank this parliament very sincerely for the extremely hard work and commitment it has shown in maintaining a high level of ambition on this issue. later this afternoon, commissioner rehn, on behalf of the commission, will express our detailed positions on these extremely important matters. now i expect parliament and the member states to come to an agreement, because the adoption of the governance package is fundamental to our comprehensive response to the crisis. agreement on this package is vital. it will be extremely difficult to explain to our citizens why we are not able to agree on the fundamental pillars of the response to this crisis when we are trying to respond to challenges of the current magnitude. i believe the agreement on this package will strengthen our economic surveillance mechanisms at european level. it will make the european union far better placed to prevent the development of unsustainable public debt and deficits, and the emergence of harmful macroeconomic imbalances. although prevention is better than cure, we will also be better placed to take action to correct these situations if they do emerge. secondly, i expect the heads of state and government to endorse the country-specific recommendations that the commission presented on 7 june. this is, as you know, the first time we are carrying out this kind of collective exercise at european level. the recommendations are based on an extensive analysis by the commission of member states’ plans for sustainable growth and job creation, married to sound public finances. they are focused, measurable and tailored to each country’s most pressing challenges. of course, discussions between the commission and the member states on these recommendations have sometimes been very intense, but i am pleased that the overall result has maintained the high level of ambition. we cannot reap the benefits of the single market on the one hand and ignore reckless economic policy-making on the other. there is no point in signing off on a brand new economic governance package if, the very same week, member states question the methodology and independent commission recommendations in the country-specific exercise. this new way of policy-making is also a strong appeal for collective responsibility, because the european union’s economic space is so much more than the sum of our different economies. thirdly, the european council is due to endorse the treaty change needed to allow for the establishment of the european stability mechanism in 2013, with its capacity to assist – on the basis of strict conditionality – euro area member states in financial difficulties. the esm, combined with the increase of the effective lending capacity of the efsf, is a clear demonstration of our commitment to safeguard the stability of the euro area on the basis of sound and sustainable public finances. you may remember that, in january when the commission presented the annual growth survey, a very important topic was the need to reinforce the effective lending capacity of the efsf. at that time we were very much criticised, but now – unanimously – the governments of europe have decided to increase the effective lending capacity. i wonder if it would not have been possible to approve it some months ago. the economic governance package, country-specific recommendations and the stability mechanisms: this is how europe should seriously draw the lessons from the crisis and act upon them. the commission will do its utmost to maintain this level of steadfast resolve in all matters to be discussed. to respond to the economic crisis, every sector needs to contribute, and none more so than the financial sector. i have promised parliament that the commission will bring forward a formal legislative proposal on a financial tax. the proposal will have three aims. firstly, to avoid fragmentation of the internal market for financial services, because there are an increasing number of uncoordinated national tax measures being put in place. secondly, this financial tax also aims to create appropriate disincentives for overly-risky or purely speculative transactions. thirdly, to ensure that financial institutions make a fair and substantive contribution to the sharing of the costs of the recent crisis, as well as to address concerns about excessive profits. the very high bonuses that are still being paid to bankers – bankers who have sometimes been saved thanks to huge amounts of taxpayers’ money – suggest that there are excessive profits in the banking sector and that the banking sector should also contribute to the common public good. (applause) the second major issue for the european council is migration. the issue of migration has come to the fore in recent months, particularly under the pressure of recent events in the southern mediterranean. i spoke to parliament in may about the commission’s migration package, which sets recent and future policy initiatives in a framework that allows the eu and its member states to manage asylum, migration and mobility of third-country nationals in a secure environment. migration, let us face it, is a very emotive issue. but let me state clearly that the commission will not accept any attempts to undermine the schengen principles. in fact, i think that we will see exactly the opposite, through a reinforcement of the european approach to migration and free movement. the commission has proposed strengthening the governance of the schengen area, thereby reinforcing member states’ confidence and trust in the effective management of our external borders. this will be done both through strengthening the frontex border agency and through an evaluation mechanism whereby national border agencies will work jointly on assessing threats. we are also exploring the feasibility of a safeguard system which would allow the adoption of decisions at european level to confront possible difficult situations where our common external borders are subject to exceptional pressure or where member states are failing to comply with their obligations to control their borders. decisions on the best way to handle such situations should be taken at european union level, avoiding unilateral action by member states. as a last-resort mechanism, and if the critical situation justifies it, these decisions could make provision for the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls, but always within a community framework. this does not mean rolling back the abolition of internal borders. this is a way of strengthening the european dimension of the system so that individual member states do not feel pressured into acting unilaterally. i will be looking for clear backing for this approach from the european council, so that detailed commission proposals can be finalised and have an opportunity to succeed. the migration package is completed by proposals for a common, efficient and protective asylum system which guarantees asylum seekers equal treatment across the european union. i am confident that parliament and the council will endorse the proposals set out in the commission’s reviewed proposals on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers and on refugee status. i will call on the european council to lend its support to the completion of the entirety of the asylum package as quickly as possible within the agreed deadline. the european council has also discussed the situation in our neighbourhood, in particular the implementation of the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean. this partnership is extremely important to our arab partners, who are looking to the european union to support the democratic transitions in the southern mediterranean. we must not let them down. another item on the upcoming european council agenda is the commission’s recommendation that croatia become the 28th member state of the european union, hopefully by 1 july 2013. there is still substantial work to be done, but i hope that at the end of the month we can sign off on the remaining chapters in the accession conference. finally, a word about greece, because i hope member states will also have the occasion to discuss at the highest level this situation, which is important not only for a member state of our union but, i believe, for the stability of the euro area and for the stability of the european union as a whole. the issue of greece raises very important issues, not just in terms of financial stability, but also in terms of social commitment and in terms of the political determination of the european union. last night’s vote in the greek parliament allows the government to build consensus in support of the reform package, agreed with the european union and imf, of fiscal measures, privatisations and reforms that are necessary in greece’s journey back to growth. because, let us be absolutely clear, there is no alternative to this plan. so let us act upon it. i know that many people in greece are living through a period of great hardship and uncertainty. my message to the greek people is that if the government acts, europe will deliver. if greece can demonstrate that it is genuinely committed to the reform package agreed with the european union and the imf, we will accompany greece on its journey back to growth. fiscal consolidation is entirely necessary, but the goal is growth. we should never forget that one euro spent on interest rates to pay the debt is one euro that cannot go to the people of greece, so it is critically important to reduce debt and to control the deficit so that we can restore confidence in the greek economy, in order to promote growth. at the same time, it is extremely important that the greek people understand that in the face of such difficult circumstances a national consensus is necessary: a national consensus and not short-sighted partisan politics. we need a national consensus in greece so that greece can win the confidence of the partners and the markets in terms of the very important reforms that are needed. (applause) on monday night i met with prime minister papandreou, and we also discussed a more strategic use of our european structural funds. greece has the potential to access a significant amount of european funds under the cohesion policy. i believe we should increase their rate of absorption and accelerate those funds, aiming for a significant impact on improving competitiveness and employment. this will be done within the existing funds. it will be a comprehensive programme of technical assistance focused on growth and jobs, but with an emergency character because – i repeat – greece is living in an emergency situation. i will discuss these issues with the european council: what we can do together with greece. we, the commission, can put this in place, bilaterally with the government, but i believe efforts are necessary from all those that can contribute, namely in terms of technical assistance coming from different member states. the greek government is ready to engage with us in this approach. i believe we should also be ready to react in a very positive way, always on the basis of strict conditionality regarding the necessary reforms for that country. the implementation of greece’s reform plans calls for exceptional efforts from the greek people. the commission is now proposing an exceptional response as a sign to the greek people that there is hope. they are making sacrifices, and we know they are making sacrifices, but at the end of that road there is hope, and solutions are within their reach. they are making some important cuts, but those cuts are necessary for growth. growth is the answer, and we will work with the greek authorities and the greek people to achieve that objective.
i would like to extend our greetings to the delegation from mexico, made up of members of the mexican house and senate, who are present in the gallery.
the agenda includes the continuation of the discussion on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 23 and 24 june 2011.
mr president, i was pleased to hear the president, mr verhofstadt, say that everyone has now realised that the greek problem is a european problem. what is greece's duty, mr president? the task is to push forward major structural reforms and to proceed with privatisations. i would therefore like to inform the president - because he is obviously misinformed - that on these two issues, which are the hard core of the reforms, the new democracy has not only agreed, but the proposals are its own. the commission has already made proposals which the government has been unable to implement for a year and a half. that's the truth.
mr president, i would like to ask mr farage whether he is aware of the extent of the united kingdom's external debt and whether he believes that the united kingdom can, as a lonely island, cope on its own.
mr president, as a greek, i would like to thank the european commission, the council and the european parliament for all the support they have given to greece so far. in particular, i would like to thank the staff of the commission who have been working very hard for 18 months now to resolve the greek crisis. ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken a lot about europe in the european parliament today. i would just like to make a patriotic comment to this multinational audience. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. what do the greek politicians and the greek people want? we ask for your respect and solidarity. what can we promise? that we will work very hard to get this country back on its feet, which we ourselves - and we have the problem and the guilt first of all - got there. mr president, allow me to make three suggestions: the president shall remove the speaker from office. )
mr president, let me first of all add to the thanks expressed by mrs javella - and i would like to thank her for this - and to the thanks of the parliaments and peoples of europe for the support they have given and continue to give to my country. greece, mr president, as the developments of the last few days have shown, is determined to continue and accelerate its efforts to consolidate its budgetary position and to promote structural reforms. but for these efforts to be successful, there are two conditions. the first condition is that we should be able to give the citizens, in addition to austerity, a positive perspective, a growth perspective, an employment perspective, a job creation perspective. the second condition is an environment of security and support from the european union, an environment of political cohesion, because throughout the crisis, but particularly in the last few weeks, we have been watching and are watching an informal public dialogue between european capitals, the european commission, the european central bank, with a peculiar interest on the part of the credit rating agencies in the famous participation of the private sector in the new rescue package for the greek economy. this particular kind of supervision, ladies and gentlemen, does not honour the european union or politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, this report comes at a crucial moment, when the commission must prepare very concretely the legislative proposals it intends to present to parliament and the council in october. i thank the rapporteur, mr deß, for the work he has done in the last weeks and months, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for the efforts and the richness of the discussions we have had since the beginning of my mandate to prepare this reform of the common agricultural policy. many of the elements of this report are consistent with the vision which the commission wanted to put into the debate with the communication on the reform of the common agricultural policy which it presented at the end of last year. i am thinking in particular of food security, which is a key objective of agriculture. i am also thinking of the importance of maintaining the two pillars of the common agricultural policy, as mr deß has just said, and of the recognition of the need for a greening of this policy and a better orientation towards the integration of sound management of natural resources. i am also thinking of a fairer distribution of the funds of the common agricultural policy among european farmers, and of the need for a budget that is commensurate with the food and territorial issues and the management of natural resources for the european union. i also note that you have included the suggestion to apply the upper limits to direct payments. i would like to stress here the substantial contribution to rural employment made by many large farms. criteria such as employment will therefore be taken into account in the definition of maximum income support thresholds for agricultural holdings. the addition of an ecological component to the first pillar, combined with a strengthened rural development policy, is also a key objective to respond to climate change, but also to environmental challenges and to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy. i am pleased to note that the report stresses the importance of a closer link between the granting of direct payments and the protection of natural resources. i want to see an effective system with a european dimension and in line with the objective of simplifying the management of direct payments. i am a strong supporter of decoupling direct payments, since its value has been proven by better adaptation of farmers to market orientation, but i believe, as you also do in your report, that it must be concrete and realistic, and that in certain situations, for specific areas and sectors which are economically, ecologically and socially sensitive, voluntary coupled aid should also be possible. direct payments will continue to play an important role in maintaining the vitality of the territories. this challenge is particularly true in areas with strong natural constraints. the commission communication therefore stressed the need to provide income support in addition to that which will continue to be provided under the second pillar to areas with natural handicaps. we shall analyse the fears you express in your report when you rule out the addition of such a component to the first pillar. in the communication on the future of the common agricultural policy, i suggested a specific support scheme for small farms, aimed at simplifying as much as possible the administrative formalities for direct aid to small farms. in addition, they can be decisively supported within the second pillar for their restructuring and for them to play a more important role, not only in the territorial dimension but also in the economic dimension, to be more profitable and more competitive. the reservation of the benefit of direct payments to active farmers alone is another point of strong convergence between your expectations and my vision of the common agricultural policy for the future. here too we will try to arrive at a definition which is applicable at european level but which can also take account of the specific situations in certain member states. i also welcome your suggestions on market measures. strengthening the management capacity and bargaining power of producers and their organisations, price transparency and other risk management measures are all topics which i will undertake to examine in detail in our impact assessment and on which i intend to make concrete legislative proposals. i share your remarks on improving and strengthening rural development measures and the need to take action to respond more effectively to the challenges of climate change, biodiversity and sustainable management of natural resources. the future second pillar of the common agricultural policy will have to respond to these challenges and to the challenge of a knowledge-based agriculture, which is able to build its future by combining competitiveness and ecology. i can assure you that the whole commission, the whole college of commissioners, including president barroso, supports a strong second pillar in the future common agricultural policy. i have read with interest your suggestions for young farmers. rural development policy will have to offer a wide range of support measures to meet their needs. i also want to analyse what could be built into the first pillar of the common agricultural policy for young farmers. i hope that in future the member states will be able to define thematic sub-programmes, packages of measures that specifically target young farmers and that recognize them as a priority category for the member state. i am thinking of measures such as installation, vocational training, training services, investment in farm modernization and restructuring. as you recall in your report, our policy will need sufficient resources to be able to meet the challenges of the future. we are currently awaiting the commission's communication on the next multiannual financial framework, which will be presented by the end of june, and it is on this basis that we will then present our impact assessment and legislative proposals, as i said, for the autumn of this year. thanks again for the report. i'm ready to answer your questions. i hope that the debate will be very constructive.
the committee on development and cooperation adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. there are too many critics who believe that the cap has led to environmental degradation but has also threatened and continues to threaten developing countries in many ways, particularly their agriculture and their development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the common agricultural policy is not just an agricultural policy; it is a policy for the benefit of all. the european commission has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources in europe. it is the european citizens of the european countryside who look after our forests, our rivers, our lakes, who give us food, clean oxygen and water. we must give incentives to change the bad texts. but if we are to implement a serious policy, we must increase the funding for our agricultural policy, for a more equitable, more efficient and more sustainable common agricultural policy.
the need for a strong cap is obvious, madam president. the agricultural sector has a clear added value to the european economy. it plays a multifunctional role by contributing to the production of public goods for the benefit of society as a whole. the cap budget should at least remain at current levels and ensure that the resources and objectives of the new cap are in line. the distribution of cap resources among farmers in the european union, which dominates public debate, deserves attention. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the community's structural funds. in my view, objective criteria are needed to take due account of the specificities of the agricultural sector in the individual member states of the union. the proposals for a ceiling on direct payments, specific aid for small farmers and aid for active farmers only are also welcome. the environmental measures should be simple in their implementation, accompanied by adequate compensation and not create additional administrative burden. the increasing instability of agricultural markets, as well as climate risks and food crises, require the activation of effective tools. the existing market measures should be strengthened. it also needs a permanent crisis management fund. the proposal for a new instrument for stabilizing agricultural income is a positive one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is the inter-party message of this house and that must be taken very seriously.
mr president, for us, for the united left, the economic governance package is not only the wrong answer to the crisis but it is also the end of europe as we knew it. the aim is not to coordinate economies and to bring about budgetary discipline, as it claims, but to impose a permanent austerity memorandum on all workers throughout europe. the european semester and the national stability and reform programmes are not aimed at convergence but at abolishing collective agreements, liberalizing redundancies, privatising and dismantling public pension systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, they serve the interests of the banks, which have been and are consciously carrying on their balance sheets toxic bonds that are part of the great international games of chance, and the interests of the large companies, which in the context of the common market find a foothold for speculation and tax evasion. i would like to mention the example of the german company hochtief, which manages athens airport, which has not paid a single euro since 2001, and which owes 500 million euros in vat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for a year now, the substance of the economic governance package has been implemented in my country with disastrous consequences: the recession is deepening, inflation has skyrocketed, investment is non-existent, labour rights and collective agreements have been virtually abolished, labour costs are the lowest in europe, unemployment has already reached 20%, debt is rising, fuelling a dangerous cycle of recession-debt-new-lending. for this reason, greek workers have taken to the streets and squares in anger, fighting to prevent austerity policies, defending income, defending labour and social rights, real development, a better future for both greece and europe.
mr president, the economic governance package creates an ironclad mechanism for imposing capitalist restructuring in a uniform way and with a uniform strategy in all the member states of the european union to strengthen competitiveness, profitability and the power of capital. it is a permanent memorandum for the working class in all the member states of the european union. and it is vulgar propaganda about the debts and deficits of greece, ireland, portugal and other countries, in order to blame the conquests of the working class, to cover up the real responsible, capitalism, the monopolies. the ideological terror of the bourgeoisie is being intensified, that the only way out is to slaughter the working people to keep the profitability of capital intact. in the period 1985-2011 alone, in addition to the untold wealth that capital appropriated from the exploitation of the working class in greece, monopoly capital, domestic and foreign, either as a lender or as a borrower, looted 628 billion euros for interest and defaults. the working class owes nothing to the robbers of its sweat. instead, they owe it all the usurped wealth that capital has plundered. the message that the communist party of greece sent from the acropolis rock today sounds more timely than ever: people of europe, rise up! overthrow the capitalist barbarity and the domination of the monopolies.
mr president, as a greek i would like to thank all the colleagues who have expressed a positive view of greece and to stress that i believe that the survival of states is above party formations and party attitudes. we are talking about a europe of the future. we have not yet understood and we are trying to understand the europe of the past, to understand how it led us to where it has led us to now. i regret to say that there has been a foolish greed of some, particularly in greece, but a deceitful greed of many others. we say that private investment is the solution to the problem. the private investment space is going elsewhere. we forgot about that. it's going to other parts of the planet. there is no competitiveness in europe; europe is ageing. it is no longer competitive and has nothing to offer. the president shall remove the speaker from the floor. )
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste (com (2010) 0618 - c7-0387/2010 - 2010/0306 (nle)) (a7-0214/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the one-minute interventions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we ourselves, in greece, must understand that we have turned our standard of living back at least ten years. i am afraid that the same will unfortunately happen in other countries. but we find that we are being charged with more than our own responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam president, this is not the way to move the single currency forward. we need a common economic policy, a single bond market and common coordination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not see any progress in that direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the problem of piracy in the gulf of aden, and now in the vast sea area of the indian ocean, continues to worsen despite the efforts of the naval forces of eunavfor. the expansion of the area in which pirates operate makes it difficult to tackle piracy by military means alone. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important one. behind piracy lies absolute poverty and lack of governance, two permanent features of somalia for the last twenty years. the european union has the potential to make greater use of the european development fund to this end. both the european union and the united nations have experience in programmes that have produced real work in somalia, and this work needs to be continued and intensified.
madam president, i wonder if the economic crisis can be solved by measures that are harmful to the climate. the european commission unfortunately answers 'yes', as it co-signed with portugal the memorandum on the support mechanism as a legitimate budgetary adjustment measure, a condition for reducing the guaranteed prices for energy from renewable sources. in greece, investments in renewable energy are among the least affected by the economic crisis and the commitment of the previous minister of the environment to safeguard guaranteed prices must be immediately renewed by her successor. the debate on the possible exclusion of countries with economic problems from the already inadequate european climate targets, the 20-20-20 targets, is also a serious one. such choices reveal an unacceptable attitude on the part of the commission and put whole european policies on the line, and nobody is accountable to anyone. but europe ends up cutting the branch on which it sits. climate targets must be strengthened to the levels scientists are calling for and specific programmes must be designed for countries with economic problems. we are doomed to break out of this impasse and face the economic, social and environmental crisis. finally, another fiscal consolidation and another assault on environmental sustainability.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the analysis of options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage (2011/2012 (ini)) (a7-0219/2011).
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my colleague hedegaard, who sends her greetings, is unable to work tonight. it is not the commission's intention to make a statement on the subject of the budget. i would like to thank parliament, its members and the rapporteur for a substantial and far-reaching work. we continue to attach paramount importance to the objective of limiting global warming to 2°c. to this end, we have set short- and medium-term targets for 2020 and a long-term strategy for 2050. it is clear that we also have to analyse further intermediate stages and define further intermediate targets on the 2020 to 2050 timeline. for the next nine years, the eu set the 20% threshold last year - this was the case in parliament almost a year ago, and before that in the commission and the council. there are certainly arguments for higher values along the lines of technical feasibility, economic impact, financial change. but we set the figure at 20% just over a year ago. i do not see any abandonment of the decision-making basis since then. we have said that europe will implement 30% if other major regions of the world - because the climate is global - are ready to make binding agreements. we continue to see opportunities for reaching binding agreements or partial agreements. that is why the conditioning is 20% europe alone, 30% if there are partners, namely the usa or china. i think that is a serious, far-reaching and fair offer. we then, as the commission, last year considered and adopted a communication which, according to the conclusions, sets out options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20%, including reductions of 30%, and how technically and economically feasible these are or whether there are cost effects, assuming that the costs are lower than previously estimated. we believe that priority should be given at the moment to the principle of planning security, that is to say planning security for industry, business and citizens on the basis of the 20% stand-alone and 30% if other relevant partners are willing to enter into binding agreements, which were decided last year by a democratic majority. it was said in a kind of automatic, 20 percent co2 reduction, if now efficiency comes, is computationally 25 percent automatically possible. but i would remind you that for some years now, in this parliament too, there has been talk of 20, 20, 20 simultaneously and in terms of content, and nowhere can the last 20 be automatically increased to 25%, just because they were adopted late and are now being dealt with by the commission. that was not the inventor's idea. this was never included in the 2007 or 2009 speeches. this is a new idea, and we can talk about it. i just don't see the automatic for that. if we in the commission, if we in the european union had taken energy efficiency more seriously earlier, automation would probably not have come about in this way. the question of the balance of goods, economics and ecology. in fact, i see considerable opportunities for engineers and technicians, for the creation of value in all its forms and, consequently, for jobs, through innovation, particularly in the field of the environment. we should aim for every one of these new energy and climate jobs in europe. but conversely, we should not lose a necessary job. what do i mean? the world should not produce more aluminium and steel than the world needs. but the steel and the amount of aluminium or copper needed in europe and the world should be produced in europe as much as possible, at least if it is currently produced here. a shift, a shift wherever you can avoid steel, aluminum, copper production. but the amount of steel and aluminium and copper that europe and the world needs should be kept as much as possible in europe in competition with other sites. we thought deliberate relocation was wrong. we will therefore continue to consider whether higher co2 emission reduction targets are feasible and, for the preservation of existing jobs in old industries old industries whether the relocation of these jobs can be avoided. because one thing is clear: for a steel works and steel production, i would rather it be in europe with 20% co2 reduction than it be moved to brazil, malaysia or america where they emit 100% co2. then we'd have made the wrong bet. i would prefer to see 20% emission reduction, preservation of jobs, preservation of value added, preservation of tax revenues as a loss of jobs and a good conscience in europe, but 100% emission in america or asia, where the job is and where the corresponding tax revenues are. this is a very pragmatic approach, which also takes ecology and economics into account. you are asking the commission to come forward with individual proposals. we'll be happy to follow up. we're building on that in other global conferences, in other governments around the world, especially after the election in the united states later this fall. in conclusion, i would encourage parliament to continue to support us with its expert contributions and to be pleased to make appropriate calls. we believe that the european union is still on the right track and we want to ensure, in particular, through checks and transparency, that the 20% is reached in any case and that there can be no misdevelopment in europe. in the autumn we will present our ideas for the amendment of the ets system. we will therefore, as promised in the energy efficiency proposal today, report on whether the increase in efficiency will lead to a significant change in the co2 market. we will have to examine the shortcomings here if we want to keep the issue of emissions trading as a market economy but also as an effective instrument for reducing co2 emissions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the rapporteur. - the commissioner, the main assumption in the report is that strengthening synergies between the european regional development fund and the other cohesion policy funds will make a decisive contribution to both the efficiency and the added value of cohesion policy. at the same time, it calls for further strengthening of synergies with the development actions of the european agricultural fund for rural development and the fisheries fund. strengthening synergies in practice means that actions financed by the different cohesion policy funds are prepared, planned and implemented in the context of an integrated joint planning, so that each action builds on and complements the positive results of the other actions. experience in the implementation of cohesion policy programmes has made it clear that the success of most regional development actions depends essentially on the implementation of complementary initiatives. improvements in infrastructure, for example, do not automatically lead to greater growth unless they are combined with investments in education, enterprise and innovation. we therefore believe that effective coordination will bring real benefits in terms of efficiency and enhancement of sound financial management. the main request made in the report to achieve this aim is the adoption of common management and implementation rules in the general context of cohesion policy and with the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european fisheries fund. this, in addition to the benefits of saving resources and exploiting complementarity, will simplify both the use of the funds by beneficiaries and the management of the funds by national authorities. finally, the harmonisation of rules at all levels of programming will facilitate, through the simplification that will ensue, the participation of small operators in cohesion policy programmes and will enhance the absorption of funds. in the context of the report, we also welcome the european commission's initiative to adopt a single strategic framework covering more funds. however, what we are asking for as the committee on regional development is that this single framework and coordination should not be limited to the preparation and policy planning stages but should be extended to cover all the policy-making stages: planning, implementation and payments, monitoring and evaluation. i would also like to express my satisfaction that the main messages of my report have been adopted in both the extremely important european parliament resolution on the future budgetary perspectives of the european union and the report on the future of cohesion policy. in conclusion, i would like to point out - as i said at the beginning - that the basic principle of my report is that better synergies between the funds will further improve the effectiveness of cohesion policy. in this context, i would like to express my particular concern at the fact that there have been recent trends towards splitting cohesion policy into different budget lines. we are clearly against any such proposal because it directly undermines the very foundations of cohesion policy and in particular the partnership and the integrated approach to regional development.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. what we are interested in is a first real analysis of the cohesion policy programmes for the period 2007-13. i am focusing on transparency, and i have prepared a report on that. the rapporteur, mr mikolášik, himself had referred to the issue of transparency in the allocation of funds as a basic condition for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy. but how is it possible to have an overall picture at european union level, since only 19 countries have provided the basic indicators needed for comparison? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we need to send a clear message. the total appropriations for the selected projects cannot represent on average 27% of the total committed appropriations; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we cannot have a policy of two- and three-speed cohesion. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, thank you for the very engaging and comprehensive discussion, which was also very well attended. this shows the need for a serious discussion of regional and cohesion policy in this house. first, something that's very important to me. it was important to parliament from the standpoint of time, and i very much welcomed this, that even before the submission of our draft regulations, parliament should make an intensive, multi-layered opinion formation which should then be incorporated into the relevant regulations. i therefore ask for your understanding that at this precise moment i cannot make any comprehensive proposals, especially those which are not yet in writing, because they are based, not least, on the reports which are now being presented. it is very important that we look more closely at the quality of work with the regions, especially when we look at some countries where there are very real structural problems. it is necessary here that we not only talk about the allocation of funds and about objectives, but also help and assist in the definition of the programmes of objectives, such as the keyword cluster formation, in individual regions, in parts of regions, in order to generate sustainable economic growth here. it has been raised by some, and i repeat, we will have a separate chapter on multi-level governance in our proposal to ensure that all stakeholders are involved in the development of operational programmes in the regions, first of all, certainly in an appealing way. but here too i would appeal to those responsible in the regions to involve the local level. because that's what i hear a lot, and a lot of you do, too. the regions complain that the national level is not involved and the local level complains that the regional level is not involved. in the spirit of ownership, which has been mentioned many times, it is certainly necessary that you all help. simplification is a word that is often used, and not to mention difficult to say, but we are all called upon to do so. but simplification cannot mean that it overrides control, so to speak. we shall try to make our contribution to simplifying things by taking appropriate measures. i have great hope in what mr barnier is doing in the public procurement sector, that by simplifying, by further, more uniformising, the error-prone nature of this area will also be reduced and that in the end it will also be possible to contribute to simplification. we shall be making our contribution with further proposals on flat-rate amounts, etc. here too, it will be necessary for things to be taken over by the member states. there was a rumour that the esf could be excluded from the structural funds family, which is definitely not the case. much of what should and must happen in rural areas must also be covered by the rural development fund, which is not intended to support farmers exclusively, but the rural area. as you know, it involves several actors and participants. but here too there is a task, and this will be the objective of the common strategic framework, to coordinate better between the different funds. conditionality will help us to improve the quality of our work together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is a question of helping these regions, which are not yet the european average, to develop, as is the task of regional policy in general. this is the key: to contribute to qualitative and quantitative growth, ensuring that the europe 2020 objectives are met, such as in the areas of energy, climate change, innovation, research, training, employment, but also the fight against poverty. i thank you again for the lively debate and the great support for our policy here in the house.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs for the opportunity they have given us today to discuss key aspects of future cohesion policy and to express our main positions on them. i would like to refer to mr pieper's report, in which i was the shadow rapporteur, because it sets out the european parliament's detailed positions on the architecture of cohesion policy after 2013. i would like to stress that our main positions have already been formulated and adopted by the european parliament in a special chapter of the resolution on the future budgetary prospects of the european union, which deals with cohesion policy. we will not retreat from these positions. the future cohesion policy must have the appropriate budget to respond effectively to new challenges, support all the regions of the european union, with particular emphasis on those facing the greatest development difficulties, contain thematic objectives but also a degree of flexibility, be based on simplified and as far as possible integrated rules between its funds and ensure that all union citizens can enjoy its benefits even if they live in the remotest part of the european union, in island and mountain areas. finally, with regard to the proposal for the creation of an intermediate support category, which i and my political group and a large majority of the house have supported and continue to support, i would like to stress that i fully agree with the view expressed today by commissioner hahn. the creation of the european regional development fund is entirely justified and we want the future system of regional support to deal in a fair, simplified and transparent way with regions which are at the same level of development. i believe that we must send a clear message that the european union is looking beyond the statistics, particularly in the context of the current economic crisis.
as some of you may know, four days ago i was appointed to become the new foreign minister of greece. (applause)thank you. the interesting part of this job was that on sunday and monday in luxembourg, when i officially met for the first time my other foreign minister colleagues from each of your countries, no one said ‘congratulations’. everyone said ‘good luck’. (laughter and applause)i just wanted to say a brief goodbye. i will miss this parliament tremendously. i will miss all the friends i have made here tremendously. i do not think there is a better place in europe for the passion and the compassion that this parliament can bring to bear. i am deeply grateful and, because i do not want my last goodbye to be a goodbye in english and because i do not want you to forget the greek that you have learned in the past year and a half, i will tell you what i suggest we do. let me hear again how we say ‘in favour’. (members: ‘υπέρ!’) how do we say ‘against’? (members: ‘κατά!’) how do we say ‘abstention’? (members: ‘αποχή!’) very good. i want socialists and gue to say ‘υπέρ’; ppe and ecr, you say ‘κατά’; greens and alde, you say ‘αποχή’. simple! let us go. (s&d and gue/ngl groups: ‘υπέρ!’; ppe and ecr groups: ‘κατά!’; verts/ale group and alde group: ‘αποχή!’) (loud applause) fantastic. thank you very much.
madam president, i would like to thank personally and on behalf of my colleagues, mr kósa, mr wikström, mr howitt and mr lichtenberger, all those who supported the written declaration we made believing that blind and partially sighted people have the right to live independently and to participate fully in society. we hope that this initiative will lay the foundations for further and immediate action in this direction.
in writing. cohesion policy is a prerequisite for improving the socioeconomic environment in europe and a practical expression of solidarity between member states. the report rightly points out, however, that there is a delay in the completion of strategies and operational programmes, due to the difficult negotiating procedures, but also mentions, an important point for greece, the need for the eu to look for ways of addressing these delays when they arise due to a lack of public resources for co-financing projects. at the same time, it is important to stress at every opportunity that sound financial management, accountability and transparency in the allocation of funds are essential prerequisites for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy. this can be achieved by regular progress reports and by improving the efficiency of public administration.
in writing. this report aims to identify the contemporary challenges, particularly in terms of living standards, faced by eu citizens living in urban centres. it is worth recalling that in europe there are some 5,000 towns with populations ranging from 5,000 to 50,000 inhabitants and nearly 1,000 towns with populations over 50,000. although in the eu only 7% of the population live in cities of over 5 million people, compared with 25% in the united states, many urban areas, including those in greece, are experiencing population growth. in any event, european cities are centres of economic activity, innovation and employment and therefore supporting them, especially in times of economic recession, is important. the report, which i voted in favour of, rightly states that this support must be provided at four levels (eu, national, regional and local) using, where appropriate, the corresponding economic and political instruments available (community resources, national strategic programmes, regional operational programmes and local and private resources).
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the new democracy group of meps voted today in favour of the six proposals in the new economic governance package. the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
in writing. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and food, which is opposed to the report, opposes the current and 'new' cap, which has led to the destruction of small and medium-sized farmers, and which is promoting rural development by making food monopolies profitable. the report integrates the 'new' cap into the anti-people 'eu 2020' strategy aimed at destroying small and medium-sized farms, concentrating land, production, subsidies and marketing exclusively in capitalist agricultural enterprises. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. at the same time, the principles of a competitive, sustainable and fair cap, combined with the decoupling of production from direct aid, favours large landowners. the ground has already been prepared by the previous revision of the cap, which led to a drastic reduction in the last two years in the real per capita income of farmers and a reduction in employment in the agricultural sector. the report treats food as a commodity, as agricultural production for profit, which is the source of the daily food scandals - the crimes of food monopolies. it lays down no restrictions on gmos which pose enormous risks to public health and the ecosystem. the only way out is for the working people and the poor to enjoy the wealth they produce.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank each and every one of the members, whom i naturally listened to with great attention, for their contribution. all the questions that have been asked or the points that have been highlighted reinforce the work that the rapporteur, president langen, has done on all these points and the intelligent answers that have been given. i would like to address a number of important issues by telegraph, echoing your questions. first of all, i would like to thank the chair, mrs sharon bowles, for the very important work that has been done by the juri committee and the positive contribution that it has made to the text on several points. president bowles also mentioned that derivatives have a useful purpose. it is not a question of condemning them in general, which would be totally unrealistic. they can serve the real economy. it is for this reason - and i say this to mrs vicky ford - that when companies use these products to hedge against certain risks and to safeguard their economic activity, we have provided for a number of exemptions. on the other hand, when companies use these products as banks do, there will be no exemptions. but the point is not to condemn derivatives, but to check how they are constructed, how they are offered and used, how they are traded, how they are covered, which obviously has not been the case in all the past years. jean-paul gauzès, mr goebbels, mr domenici, mrs wortmann-kool and, more recently, mr mann, have all referred to the lack of transparency which the rapporteur and i have pointed out and which justifies this text. it is clear that the lack of transparency is at the heart of the crisis and that derivatives have indeed been one of the vehicles of the crisis, because they were neither transparent, nor controlled, nor compensated, nor standardized. i thank mr canfin for pointing out - and i acknowledge that it is true - that the commission's text was improved on a number of points by parliament. i would like to return to another point raised by mr canfin. i would remind you of a point raised by mrs bowles and mrs gáll-pelcz on trade repositories, which will indeed play a central role. they will be, ladies and gentlemen, the recording boxes of all operations. the thing is essential for the regulator to work efficiently. to do this, we are discussing - i was going to say on a daily basis - on a technical level, with the united states and the american regulators to ensure access to information from the coordination mechanisms - mrs swinburne mentioned this - and the total, complete and sincere reciprocity between americans and europeans. we are not there yet, but we are in a parallel process of voting under the dodd-frank act and the texts that the us regulators can establish - sometimes even without legislation - and ourselves, right here in the council and in the parliament. i would like to see an agreement to avoid any position which would be contrary to the rules of competition and therefore cause additional costs for the economy. finally, i said to mrs bowles: 'yes, of course, no exemptions without prior analysis by esma.' mr canfin, you are right about the need to avoid any prudential competition with regard to the safety conditions under which clearing houses must operate. i would also like to say that on this point it seems useful for the european systemic risk committee to play a role in this vigilance. i think that's something we should probably re-examine in trilogue. mr gauzès said that i was concerned about building this architecture with you and the council, brick by brick, product by product. we have here an important, major brick, when we see the volumes of trade involved. he also mentioned esma. this is a key point, and we must use every text, ladies and gentlemen, to give full force and efficiency to the system you wanted with a regulation, with powers on which, ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid backsliding or dismantling. i can see that there are attempts to retreat, to defend the position of each of these texts. i share your wish that esma should be able to benefit from all the powers and strength it has been given, thanks in particular to you. mr domenici referred to the question of voluntary work. of course, this is where the risk and the lack of transparency are concentrated, hence the g20 decision and the commission proposal. we are naturally very attentive, mr domenici, to our relations with the council and i would like to thank the hungarian presidency for all the efforts it has made to bring this text forward. i would like to say a few words about a subject which has interested me for a very long time, long before i took up this post: the question of raw materials. mr canfin, mr klute, mr tošenovský and, more recently, mrs flašíková beňová, all spoke on the question of raw materials. i mean, the derivatives text is also important for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, because all derivatives used in commodity markets, whatever the nature of that commodity, are going to be covered by this requirement of transparency, standardisation and accountability. we must not be satisfied with this on the question of raw materials and the control of the risks of speculation - i was going to say of hyper-speculation - which accelerate the phenomena of price volatility, often to the detriment of the most vulnerable people, especially in some african countries. we will make proposals on position limits, on responsibility, but the text you will adopt - i hope in a few weeks - and the amendments you will vote on are one of the instruments for transparency and accountability in the commodity markets. finally, madam president, i would like to say a word about the pension funds mentioned by mrs swinburne and mrs wortmann-kool. we must not create loopholes in the regulations. we have identified a specific problem with these institutions which are essential for many europeans and we will propose - as you know - limited transitional measures to deal with this issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 5 july, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by theodor dumitru stolojan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 98/78/ec, 2002/87/ec and 2006/48/ec as regards the supplementary supervision of financial entities belonging to financial conglomerates (fvcs) (com201(0433 - c7-0203/2010 - 2010/0232 ((cod)) (a7-0097/2011)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, how many minutes do i have? whatever i have, i've lost some time from interpreting. i start, you stop. (the president informed the rapporteur that she had four minutes. ) the report i am dealing with concerns the pan-european emergency number 112 and the universal service. the number 112 is very useful. but as useful as he is, he's less well-known. based on the data we have from the eurobarometer in february 2011, we see that only 26% of european citizens can associate the number 112 with its possible use for emergencies. our aim should be to increase the proportion of citizens who can connect the 112 to the emergency number to 80% by 2020. an ambitious goal which, in order to become a reality, needs to be preceded by other things. these things are in my opinion three: the first is the information that can be passed through schools and through the media, as well as through the tourist entry points in each city, which means that 112 has to be advertised in ports, airports, railway stations. the second point is the question of better cooperation between the 27 member states of the european union; we all understand how important it is, especially now that it is summer and the holiday season is beginning, for a european citizen to be able to know that by calling 112 his problem will be solved in any country of the european union wherever he is, in any language and whether he is on the phone. the most important point is the location of the caller: to be able to identify directly where the person in trouble is, so that we can help him. here comes the technology. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to know what we're talking about and the citizens who are listening to us know it too. the universal service - we all know this - is a basic set of services of a given quality that can be provided at an affordable price without distorting competition. this is a concept that is embedded in the directive that was drafted in 2002, a directive that was revised in 2008, and it was only in may that the deadline for member states to transpose this directive into their legislation expired. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this because we are having this conversation at a time which is extremely critical for the economies of the european union and for the economies of the member states. i think it is necessary to stress that universal service is in my view neither the only nor the main driver for achieving the goal of broadband for all. and that's because it requires very high investment costs without necessarily having significantly improved services to consumers. i would like to mention two figures which have their own significance. i certainly support the digital agenda and its goals. but when we see that even where broadband is 100% available, only 50% is used, that should be a concern. in conclusion, i think that the introduction of the broadband obligation in the universal service should be followed by some concrete measures and the provision of incentives to the private sector with funding from both national and community resources.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the hungarian presidency because what has been achieved is more important than what remains to be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the work done on the roma issue and on security issues (sagen, etc.) is correct. what is important to follow up is to emphasise the social dimension in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. i, as a member from greece, would like to thank the hungarian presidency for its help in the budgetary adjustment of my country and to stress that it does not matter what particular differences there are within the framework of democracy in greece. the greek people recognize that without this aid we would be in very serious trouble, and we therefore undertake to commit ourselves and to cooperate with both the presidency and the european commission. the most important thing, i think, is that we have to consider how the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy can be achieved from now on, because, given that the lisbon guidelines have not delivered what we want ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, in a way commissioner dalli’s proposal was something of a trap for the member states. on the one hand, they were left free to ban gmos but, on the other, in the recital the commissioner very clearly mentioned that any measures they take have to be wto-proof. thus the pressure remains on the member states. i support corinne lepage’s report and i congratulate her on her good work. she provides us with exact legal certainty as to the grounds on which individual member states can ban gmos on their territory. that is the additional environmental data. if we are to respect the scientific data, we should look very carefully at the latest canadian report which shows that bt toxins can be transferred from food not only to mothers, but also to their unborn children, thus exposing them to serious health issues. at the very least, we should ban bt products from our markets and our tables in the eu. we should also label products that come from animals whose mothers were fed with gmo feed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of an agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, because this report aims, among other things, to ensure the smooth functioning of this area and to allow the full use of the possibilities offered by new technologies. the new agency will be an umbrella body, which will manage the technical aspects of the operation of sis ii, vis and eurodac. the commission will be able to take action to ensure that the data is not only protected, but also exchanged. the value of this report lies, among other things, in the important proposals it contains for achieving a high level of safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of the coelho report because i agree with the rapporteur, who has amended a number of articles in an attempt to strengthen the role of parliament and improve transparency. the commission has also sought to make the rules on data protection and the security and integrity of personal data stricter by strengthening the role of the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hoarau report because i believe that the contribution of the sea is crucial to the stability of the economies of these outermost regions. it allows local production and employment to be maintained in areas where unemployment is as high as 30%, while its regional revenues, which account for 37-48% of the budget of local authorities in the overseas departments, are designed to provide significant support for investment policies for local development and must be maintained as such.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the emergency number. 112 is a number that can save the lives of hundreds of european citizens who are victims of accidents or illness. the problem is that despite this number having been in existence for several years, only 26% of eu citizens are actually aware of its existence. in order to make this tool more flexible and practical, significant improvements aimed at the precise automatic location of the caller, in particular for roaming calls, are needed. these improvements require additional resources, which are difficult to save in countries such as greece, where adverse economic conditions prevail.
in writing. this report is about job creation by removing borders or barriers to trade in europe. i voted in favour of the report because i fully agree with the rapporteur's position, which raises the alarm about protectionism and calls on the political leadership to put the real economy back at the centre of the political agenda. the report is a call for action to achieve free movement and settlement across europe, based on fair, balanced and transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the repo report because i believe that the regulation should aim at removing obstacles and transnational cooperation between public enforcement authorities in detecting, investigating and suspending or banning infringements of consumer protection laws. in addition, the regulation should aim to tackle effectively and efficiently illegal cross-border commercial activities that disrupt the proper functioning of the internal market, thereby enhancing consumer confidence in the acceptance of cross-border offers and preventing sellers and suppliers from circumventing enforcement to the detriment of the competitiveness of law-abiding sellers and suppliers.
in writing. the report on the amendment of the directive on the restriction of gmos by member states on their territory not only does not guarantee any protection of public health and the environment from the serious effects of the spread of gm food, but in fact legalises it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the spread of the disease. it is no coincidence that for 10 years, despite the provisions of the relevant directive, the european commission has not carried out a study on the effects of gmos on health and the environment, although a number of studies have been published highlighting their devastating consequences. the eu and the ec are turning their backs on the profits of the three monopoly groups that are pillaging the market for mutants and promoting their uncontrolled spread. the only way to protect health and the environment from the harmful effects of mutants is to ban their cultivation and marketing completely and completely.
in writing. mr dalí has presented us with an unacceptable proposal that resembles a trojan horse. it allows member states the freedom to prohibit the cultivation of approved gmos in part or all of their territory, but without being able to invoke reasons relating to the protection of health and the environment. in this way the commission is ignoring the clear message sent to it by those member states which have declared themselves off limits to the mutant areas and is not respecting the will of its citizens, who are in large measure anti-mutant. i voted in favour of the lepage report because it goes in the direction of strengthening and improving the commission's proposal, filling in its gaps and at the same time making the ep a strong player in the negotiations that are to follow. the report adopted makes environmental protection, biodiversity, natural and agricultural characteristics, respect for public opinion, compulsory measures to combat pollution and socioeconomic reasons criteria for a national ban on the cultivation of mutants. the proposal will also be governed by the polluter pays principle and the principle of risk prevention, an amendment of the gue/ngl which i co-signed and which was adopted.
in writing. the unacceptable resolution condemning the reactionary changes to the hungarian constitution is a crude and provocative intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the kke condemns the reactionary changes to the hungarian constitution passed by the country's anti-people bourgeois government, drastically restricting democratic rights and popular freedoms and further strengthening the reactionary features of the bourgeois political system. but we do not recognize in the european parliament and the eu any right to intervene and determine the internal developments and political choices of sovereign states, whether they are members of this imperialist union or not. the rhetoric of the political leaders of the european parliament on human rights and freedoms is a shameless hypocrisy, while at the same time it is crushing the lives and rights of the working class in all the member states of the european union. the changes to the hungarian constitution to consolidate the power of the local bourgeoisie are moving in this direction. what the eu is seeking is to acquire an even more decisive role in political developments within its member states, so that together with the local bourgeoisie, it can impose the iron will of the monopolies, capitalist profit, the reduction of the price of labour, the crushing of the popular movement.
in writing. it is essential that there is methodology in the approach to the sensitive issue of climate change. but there must be no excesses and misunderstandings which would restrict entrepreneurship and ultimately have negative effects on society as a whole. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report also states that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the report is moving in the wrong direction, despite the rapporteur's good intentions, and if no deep cuts are made, the matter needs to be reviewed with more realism.
in writing. the kke voted against the resolution on the 5th report on eu cohesion policy because it reflects the desire of the eu monopolies to link eu regional policy for the period 2013-2020 even more closely to the anti-people eu 2020 strategy, so that it directly serves the profitability of the monopoly groups. even without the phrased commitments to a policy to promote the cohesion of the eu's regions, the new measures will reduce community resources and only those that will further promote the single market, the stability pact and the 'flagship initiatives' for flexible and rights-free employment, lifelong learning, scientific research for multinationals, broadband, technological equipment from large multinationals for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and green development will be eligible for all kinds of projects in the esdp. in other words, it ensures even greater profits for the foreign and local plutocracy, even greater deficits and cheaper labour, even greater disparity between regions and within member countries. the new measures will further exacerbate the confrontation between the member states and the individual regions of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 and beyond. the way we plan, develop, finance and operate our energy infrastructure and networks in europe will also determine our ability to reduce our energy dependence and thus enhance our energy security. the energy resources available to the eu can be a growth engine for the european economy as a whole. financing and implementing energy infrastructure is of particular interest to countries in southern europe, such as greece, which have renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and sea, which they can exploit for the benefit of national development. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
madam president, the political priorities and objectives, as set out in the european commission document and in the garriga polledo report, are to promote employment, to boost innovation, research and development, to tackle climate change, to improve education levels and to promote social inclusion by reducing poverty, to adopt policies on migration, and to secure resources for the development of hard-to-reach and remote areas. the union's budget is the main mechanism for activating solidarity between member states. the commission's proposal for a multiannual programme, with objectives shared by the european commission itself, can only be the real european added value which will bring efficiency to europe. it is important that the european parliament's proposal provides for the creation of an intermediate category of regions which are moving away from objective 1 and, in particular, that it emphasizes the coordination and synergy of the structural funds to strengthen cohesion policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the council must therefore accept the european parliament's proposal, of course in conjunction with the objectives outlined by the european commission.
member of the commission. − i can confirm that we have these human rights clauses in the agreement, that they constitute an essential element of the agreement and that, if there is infringement, we can suspend the agreement without prior consultation. we have duly taken this into account when negotiating this agreement.
vice-president of the commission. − i understand that this question was asked by mr chountis. the honourable member has informed us that a commercial contract was concluded between the greek state and a company to invest in a project for a commercial residential development on the former site of ellinikon airport. according to this information, this company now wants to withdraw from this contract. the commission has not received any complaints on the matter in relation to competition law rules. however, the company’s withdrawal from a contract may be a breach of contract law that must be assessed under national law. but the act of withdrawal in itself is not against competition law rules. the commission has not received any complaint concerning a possible infringement of european public procurement rules in this matter. but in any case it should be underlined that, should the agreement mentioned by the honourable member or any other agreement related to the development of this area, fall under the scope of the eu public procurement directives, the relevant provisions thereof have to be fully complied with.
madam president, commissioner, i thank you for at least part of your reply, that there have been no complaints of infringement of community legislation and that the commission has no such evidence. the other thing i'm asking you, you know it's very important. whether i agree with this sale of public property or not, in the mediumterm programme the greek government has accepted 50 billion in privatisations. so my question is: what is the basic community legislation in the event that a member state of the european union sells real estate? i'd appreciate it if you could give me more information.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i thank my colleagues and the commissioner for being here late at night to discuss a subject which would be more suited to the activity and productive vibrancy of the day than to the quiet of the night. first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues, present and absent, from all the political groups with whom we have worked to highlight a matter of importance for society and the economy and to focus on a strong message that we want to get out of the vote on this report, which is the need to use women in business decision-making. the aim of the report is twofold: on the one hand we want to point out the weaknesses of society and the market and ask for them to be corrected, so that social justice, dignity, gender balance in decision-making and responsibility can be implemented; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the percentage of women on boards of directors is increasing by only one point a year. how many years must pass? how much power must be lost? how many talents must be left behind, when you consider that about 60% of graduates are women. the studies tell us clearly - i won't bore you with numbers, but there are some interesting facts in the report - that where women are involved in decision-making in companies, the results of the companies, their performance, are better, more efficient. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. these can be found in the feminine virtues; i say 'congratulations' because, in addition to knowledge and education, women have special skills which are very important in the business world, in the field of management, in the field of consultation, in communication with the market. these characteristics of women have proved valuable and companies have tried in various ways to exploit them. the measures taken by many firms are widespread and appreciated. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. it is necessary to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life, to promote meritocracy, transparency in administration, in the management of human resources, in the composition of the boards of directors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the promotion of the participation of women in decision-making bodies, in particular through the promotion of the participation of women in decision-making bodies. we ask the european commission to take stock of the current situation, supporting the commissioner in the binding targets she has already set for women's representation on boards. we ask it to promote awareness-raising actions, to support actions that companies have put in place themselves, and if there are no results, we can no longer wait, the commissioner has made it clear, we agree with her commitment, we must, in order to have immediate results, with legislative proposals aimed at achieving 30% participation of women by 2015 and by 2020 even more, 40%, taking into account of course the specificities of the companies. i would like to add that there are initiatives in various member states which we particularly welcome, but we must serve a single area of equality, competitiveness and that is why we insist on a european regulation, to give the opportunity to countries which have not taken initiatives to participate in this development and mobility of human resources and also needs an information campaign because the legislation, in order to be successfully implemented, needs partners - society, the market, the social partners.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, there are a great many women who have proved in politics, in business and in society that they are simply very capable. since this very fierce debate started, there has been movement in some of our member states: more and more women are being nominated to boards – which shows that when you look for them you can find them. they do exist. allow me to be a little polemic. we do not find many of the 60% of university graduates who are female on company boards. it seems that there is a male quota on company boards, an 88% male quota in the case of publicly listed companies: it certainly looks that way. we have noticed, in analysing the trend over recent years, that we are progressing without intervention at a rate of 0.5% per year. at this speed it will take 50 years to reach equality. we ought to think about that, especially at a time when we need all the talent available in order to make our economy thrive. with an ageing population, and as talent begins to be scarcer, we need women, and women mean business. women mean life. women mean everything positive – and we should give them a chance. it is as simple as that. the talented will go forward – as they do in this house, by the way. i hope that tomorrow there will be a solid vote in support of ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou’s report, which is a very good one. it is a report which gives me courage and faith in this parliament. the ideas that have been tabled here have been taken up in the commercial world by many companies. you need only look at how many women have been nominated to company boards in recent days. things are moving, so let us help this movement to go forward. we, as politicians, can help it to go forward. of course we need the corporate world to go with us, and we need the member states to go with us. i see it as a very positive development that, in many member states, relevant laws have been introduced or are in preparation. things are moving. i thank the parliament for helping them to move even more quickly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i shall be brief because i have taken too much time in the minutes. i think it is clear, commissioner, that male-dominated boards do not represent the values of the european union, they do not benefit businesses or the economy in macroeconomic terms. we need to enrich them with women, precisely because women have talent. you tell me, corporations can't make policy based on equality. companies are looking for talent and efficient partners and employees. and in their search, it's not a man or a woman in front of them, it's talent, the right person. but life shows us, and the numbers that were reported tonight make it clear that women's talents are not being seen. it is not possible to have 60% of graduates and postgraduates and 3% or 8% on the boards. so there needs to be some measures, some methods, that will give businesses and society the opportunity to discover and harness talent. i think that there is no doubt about it, and that is why we are proposing quotas. to give that boost and opportunity to those talents that we all think exist. i think i also have to answer mrs niebler, who was very careful in her report but made a very specific differentiation for supervisory boards. the aim of the report, the aim of the debate we are having tonight is to give women the opportunity to play a role of executive power, decision-making, responsibility. and supervisory boards are not the same as boards of directors. i believe that we should not give women secondary roles instead of leading roles. in any case, our report provides that when the commission's legislative proposal comes - if it comes - it should take account of the specificities, i repeat, and subsidiarity, because we know that company law is not the same in every country. in any case, even with these small differences, i believe that parliament will send a strong message tomorrow to the european commission, irrespective of whether the ground is fertile, to the member states, to the businesses themselves and to the women themselves, that the way is open for them to serve their ambitions and offer their talents to society.
i welcome the polish presidency and wish it every success in its work. the polish presidency will coincide with the completion of a second loan package to greece. it is an opportunity to point out the following: if we are to see sustainability in greek debt, this second loan package should have a reduced interest rate. i take this opportunity, mr prime minister, to inform all those who are here today that everything we have cut as the greek people and all the sacrifices we have made go to the interest defaults we pay to our creditors. the interest rate at which your country is lending to my country is enormous. greece's debt is not going to be sustainable unless you lower the interest rate. mr prime minister, i am very pleased that poland will be joining the eurogroup. you will be an objective judge to see that for 18 months greece has been and is the victim of the financial markets and its creditors. we are grateful for all that you do for us and we, for our part, will not stand idly by, but at some point the solidarity we are discussing here must be practical and realistic.
in writing. i would like to wish poland good luck in assuming the presidency of the council of the eu for the first time since its accession and welcome the commitment of the polish government to the european vision. the polish presidency will undoubtedly face many challenges in its six-month term, notably the start of negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the first impressions we have of the importance which the polish presidency attaches to the role of cohesion policy in the coming mff are positive. it is important that the presidency recognises that cohesion policy must remain the eu's spearhead for more and more targeted investment to tackle the economic crisis. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's new strategy for the environment, which aims to improve the quality of life and the environment in the eu. we hope that under the polish presidency there will be as much progress as possible in the negotiations. finally, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the polish presidency supports the proposal to convene an interparliamentary conference with the national parliaments on the future financing of the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, unfortunately, the commission's interim report a year ago, despite the original intentions of the rapporteur, and with the responsibility of the majority of the commission, did not explain or analyse the real causes of the economic and debt crisis. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. in particular, the report moves within the framework of the economic governance package by tightening the stability pact, moves within the framework of the euro pact that is eroding the european social model and moves within the model of privatisations of public property. but this policy is already being implemented in greece, portugal and ireland, with the result that the recession is deepening, unemployment is growing, debt is increasing and the speculators are profiting and extorting more and more. the report is in fact a compromise between the two major groups and essentially considers the policy of mr rehn, mr barroso, mr rompuy, mrs merkel and mr sarkozy as one-way. there is no one way for us. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. it is the alternative that is being built in the streets and squares, as in the plaza de la constitución, which the greek government unfortunately drowned in german tear gas and blood last week, in the squares of spain, in the squares of the bastille and in the streets of london, where civil servants are struggling. that is why we shall vote against it.
the european parliament, with its final report on the crisis, shows that it can and does rise to the occasion in a very unfavourable situation for the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the report analyses in depth the causes of the crisis and proposes concrete, ambitious and comprehensive proposals for how to overcome it. if this approach, these proposals, were adopted by the council, we would certainly not only have managed the crisis effectively, but we would have shielded the union and the euro area from future crises, strengthened it institutionally and politically and, most importantly, we would have been able to restore its credibility in the eyes of the european citizens and to regain their confidence in our common european future. the report, with its specific proposals, such as the introduction of specific measures to boost employment, the introduction of a system of eurobonds and a financial transaction tax, sends a strong message that we need a bigger and stronger europe.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the current budgetary difficulties faced by member states and the need for significant investment and growth require new financing models combining public and private resources. i welcome the proposal in the report to use project bonds in cooperation with the european investment bank and the recommendation to further study eurobonds in a way that is beneficial to all member states. i believe that, in addition to the common currency, the euro area countries must take an additional step by making appropriate arrangements for the joint issuance of bonds and the management of part of the public debt of the member states, in order to lay the foundations for a more coordinated multilateral surveillance, which will ensure a more attractive euro area market as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr fajon's report because its purpose is to create legal certainty on the list of travel documents and therefore i think the rapporteur's proposal to clarify the consequences of failing to notify the position of a member state within a given period of time is absolutely correct. this provision should be consistent with the exclusive competence of member states to recognise travel documents, since they will always have the right to notify that they do not recognise the travel document concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on european broadband networks. the report gives the political signal on the actions that need to be taken at national level to support investment in broadband networks. for countries with a geographical relief like greece, where many areas are geographically isolated, this exposure is even more valuable. this is because the development of broadband networks can mitigate any isolation or distance.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs javella's report, as i consider it to be comprehensive and balanced, its objectives to be realistic and to meet the needs of the modern digital society. the report states, among other things, that the aim should be to consolidate the eu's global leadership in ict infrastructure and to achieve 100% coverage for all europeans with speeds of at least 2mbps for all rural users. the implementation of these objectives is crucial to boosting growth, competitiveness and social cohesion in the eu
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the overall approach to the protection of personal data in the european union. the data protection legislation that exists at european level needs to be revised to meet the new needs created by the rapid development of technology. it is welcome that this initiative was adopted, albeit belatedly, by the european parliament in order to lay the groundwork for the creation of a single direction on issues raised in the past, such as the swift agreement on the transfer of financial data from the eu to the us to combat terrorist financing and the pnr agreements on the exchange of passenger data.
in writing. i voted against the sommer report for four main reasons: because it does not require the nutritional information such as fat, sugar, salt to be displayed on the front of a package, something that has been opposed by the food industry lobby. why does it not require the packaging to bear 'colour codes' or 'flags' which provide for the use of a red, orange or green label depending on the content (high, medium or low) of the food in calories, fat, sugar, salts and other ingredients? because the label won't say natural trans-fatty acids. because the country of origin will only be indicated on the label for fresh meat and fish. this weakens the position of the committee on the environment, which had voted to include the indication of the country of origin on the label of both frozen or processed meat and meat and dairy products. the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the provision of information to food consumers favours the industry rather than consumers. the health risks (obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and certain cancers) posed by inadequate information or misinformation are high. yet, the food industry spends about $10 billion a year trying to influence children's eating habits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because its aim is to better inform the consumer and at the same time to protect him from possible misinformation. the free movement of safe food is a fundamental aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens and to the safeguarding of their social and economic interests. i believe that this fundamental aspect is covered by this report, as it protects the rights of the consumer and aims to ensure that he is well informed about the food he chooses to consume, healthy food and healthy competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of the roth-behrendt report because i believe that in the light of the commission's proposals, the food and feed control reports and other related issues such as high levels of dioxin and mechanically separated meat, consumer protection, animal health and the elimination of tses should always be the main and most important objectives when considering possible changes to the existing rules. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for the commission and the member states to remain vigilant and to continue to monitor closely the development of tse in the event of a re-emergence of tse/sce.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on air safety. terrorist attacks on passenger flights, as well as attacks and suspicious packages sent to london and greece, highlight the need to strengthen air transport security. the introduction of body scanners at airports can provide substantial assistance in the detection of explosive articles. but we must be careful about public health and the protection of personal data of european travellers and the way in which body scanners are used so that the right to privacy is not compromised.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs cratza's report, as i believe that the needs of our society require greater involvement of women in the workplace, while improving women's participation in education ensures the necessary equality of opportunity for participation in leadership positions in the business sector. i agree with the proposal in the report to increase the representation of women on management boards to reach the 30% threshold by 2015. i hope that the commission will implement new policies to promote equality for women in the workplace and to avoid discrimination against them in matters such as pay and occupational classification.
in writing. the report on the economic crisis in the eu makes an agonizing attempt to conceal that this is a capitalist crisis of over-accumulation of capital, which cannot be invested on terms of high profitability for monopolies, which is in line with the character of the capitalist mode of production. this is why it tries to attribute the crisis to speculation (as if it is not a structural component of capitalism), to credit rating agencies, to "irresponsible lending practices", that is to secondary aspects of the capitalist economy, in order to exonerate the capitalist system and its deep and insurmountable decay. the solutions proposed by the political representatives of the monopolies are based on the central strategic objective of the eu and the bourgeois governments: to secure and maximize the profitability of capital by reducing the price of labor power to the limit, demolishing all labor and social rights of the working class. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's monopoly position in the world inter-imperialist competition is strengthened. the report supports all the barbaric anti-people measures promoted by the eu and governments of capital to shift all the burdens of the crisis onto the workers. the capitalist restructuring they are putting in place is not able to prevent the next crisis from breaking out faster than they expected. capitalism cannot be cured, nor can it have a "human face".
mr president, it seems that the process of democratization in the mediterranean part of africa has been well under way, with the exception of libya, of course. personally, i was afraid of the spread of protests in the middle east, which is a seething cauldron and also the focus of many terrorist organizations. since march of this year, syria has been at the mercy of anti-government protests, has closed its borders to amnesty international, the international media and international observers, and the whole scene raises questions about whether the assad regime is the next to be toppled in the so-called arab spring. i would like to ask you to look at syria very carefully, mrs ashton. the geopolitical importance of syria is particularly important because it is located in the extension of iran to the mediterranean and parallel to turkey, while friendly relations with states in the region, whether reversed or changed for the worse or better, may bring about some reversals in the geopolitical situation in the region. the geopolitical importance of syria must of course be taken into account and i would ask you to take all the necessary measures to consolidate the european union's influence as a global partner. unfortunately, i see a slow reaction from the security council, and i would also like to stress that you must pay particular attention to greece, because it may be going through a difficult period, but its geopolitical role and the balance it brings to the middle east is of the utmost importance.
mr president, there have been serious developments in north africa and the middle east, linked to the intensification of the struggle of the popular forces of the working people for social and democratic rights and to the attempt to modernise the bourgeois regime in these countries in the region. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it is not the council that is responsible for the negotiations. the european union is one of them, and it seems to be very concerned about the developments and is making desperate efforts to impose a new, more unjust and oppressive framework on bilateral relations with these countries. the evidence of this is the pogrom against migrants, the continuing imperialist war of nato and the cold-blooded killing of civilians in libya, the sending of military equipment from france, the preparations for the european mission eufor libya. at the same time, the hypocritical attitude of the united states and the european union towards the palestinian state remains a central issue in the region, as does the fact that greece, together with israel, has been pursuing systematic military cooperation in recent years to the detriment of stability and peace in the region. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the palestinian authority has been unable to take action against the palestinian authority. it is a provocative and unacceptable action which undermines stability in the region and which has nothing in common with the feelings of the greek people. in conclusion, i would like to call on all our countries to recognize the state of palestine on the occasion of the un general assembly. the palestinian people must finally have their rights. the european union and the united states cannot support the israeli occupation, cannot support this unacceptable violation of basic human rights. the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
the honourable member will probably not be aware of the persecution to which knesset members in israel are subjected when they seek recognition of the palestinian state and the persecution to which these knesset members are subjected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, how and to what extent is israel, which may indeed have a parliament, political parties, anything, considered a democratic state while it continues its illegal occupation of foreign territory? how can such an occupation, which has been condemned by the united states, the united nations in repeated resolutions and statements, be considered legitimate, when it is now common ground that the existence of a palestinian state must be recognized? since when has the refusal to recognize a state, which is a requirement of the international community, been a democratic right and a sign of democracy for a country? and as for the palestinians, excuse me, mr president, we were here, the european union was the one who had provoked them to organise elections, they elected those they wanted and then we did not like those they elected. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for many years we have turned a blind eye to horrible regimes, even considering that european-style democracy is probably not suitable for such regimes. but the knowledge and information society is the greatest social revolution of the centuries for the oppressed and the poor. and this revolution is unstoppable. europe must stand with the oppressed. the european union must take further steps, madam president, by declaring the leaders of syria and other countries such as libya personae non gratae. ask the member states to withdraw their ambassadors! do things that don't need the security council, because if you wait for the security council on syria, it's probably going to be delayed!
madam president, the events of the past few months in north africa and the middle east call us to rise to the occasion. the demand for freedom, democracy, the establishment of the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, for which these countries are fighting, are precisely the foundations of the european construction. the great danger today, several months after the start of the uprisings, is to show that we as a union are following these great events with a double standard. the european union is also concerned about the situation in syria, where the bloodshed has exceeded all previous levels. the european union must urgently call for the removal of the moralist bashar al-assad, who despite his announcements continues to shed blood in the country. it should also be noted that there has been no substantive condemnation of the intervention of foreign forces in bahrain. the union can no longer turn a blind eye to military intervention. we must send a clear and strong message that we are determined to support the democratic struggles of these countries and at this crucial moment to speak with one voice against repression and violence.
madam president, commissioner, lady ashton, the rapid political developments in the arab world have put the international community, and the european union in particular, in front of at least two crucial dilemmas: firstly, how to support the demands of the peoples of the arab world for freedom and democracy without at the same time disturbing, in a way dangerous for international security, the stability of a very important region of the world from morocco to yemen. second dilemma: how can we avoid a double standard in the protection of human rights in the same countries, in all the countries of the arab spring, when it is a fact that the situation in each of these countries remains distinct from the others. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so the situation in the arab world is like an equation with no fixed point, an equation with only x unknowns. so the challenge is great. i recognize that the young foreign service takes a literal baptism of fire in extremely difficult circumstances, such as libya. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the slow and understated reactions of the international community, and unfortunately of europe, to the atrocities of the assad regime are causing feelings of outrage and shame. this is the policy of two-faced-two-stop at its height. this policy must change.
madam president, madam representative, commissioner, about a year ago, in the spring of 2010, i visited syria with my colleagues from the libe committee on the resettlement of refugees. i would remind you that we took decisions on this matter in europe last year. we have seen that syria has since then kept its borders open, unlike other neighbouring countries, and has accepted, because of the unrest in the wider region, to host hundreds of thousands of iraqis and palestinians under extremely unfavourable conditions. and we have already seen, all my colleagues, the danger that all these people are trying, with the help of the smugglers we all know, who are operating uncontrollably in neighbouring turkey, to reach europe. we all realise that this danger is more visible today than ever, and it is certainly fuelled by the political turmoil in syria - too much has already been lost - which is leading the syrian people themselves to the path of refuge. i would like to point out, on the basis of the information we are receiving, that more than 10 000 refugees have already arrived in turkey, while 5 000 are already concentrated on the syrian side of the border with turkey. it is therefore necessary, madam representative, that the european union, in addition to what has already been said about managing the problems, should act quickly and take immediate measures with regard to possible new migration flows and refugee flows, in order to prevent the problem and not have to deal with it later, in a framework of cooperation, as it is trying to do with the north african countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for the excellent cooperation which she has sought and had with us. i think the report rightly calls for the european union to adjust its foreign policy stance, particularly in the area of so-called democracy promotion, so that there is no double standard on the part of the european union. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the peoples of third countries are respected. we are convinced that democracy and security cannot exist without full and universal respect for human rights. we stress the need to promote respect for rights over economic and political expediency. in this connection, we also stress the union's responsibilities and its mistakes, such as, for example, its misguided obsession with restricting immigration from north african countries and cooperating with those regimes. i would like to mention the reservations we have: firstly, there are limits to the european union's foreign policy. unfortunately, our policy is often intrusive and shapes the realities in third countries in various ways, without actually promoting human and democratic rights. secondly, we are particularly concerned about the financing of political parties in third countries. it is a form of intervention, when political, economic and other interests are involved. thirdly, unfortunately the report does not avoid, as we would like, the acceptance of the union's external policy instruments and bodies, which our group opposes in principle, because these instruments are also military in nature.
mr president, it is deeply worrying that the debate on internal border controls in the european union has returned to the agenda. for years there have been attempts to breastfeed the younger generations and to accustom the older ones to the idea that there are no internal frontiers in europe. and it is unacceptable, in my view, to use the wave of migration flows from north africa and not only tomorrow we may have the same from syria as a pretext for the re-establishment of control zones within a united europe, especially, in many cases, under the pressure of the polls in various countries. what's the next step? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. are we at that level this time? the question is not to go back thirty years, when some of those who sat in these seats, in which we find ourselves today, were talking about a europe without borders, without passports, without controls, a truly united continent, even envisaging the reintroduction of controls for exceptional cases. what is the point of discussing the introduction of new border controls when there is provision for them in articles 23 and 26 of the schengen borders code? at the very highest level of the debate, what is the point of not mentioning the role that the lisbon treaty itself recognises for the european parliament as a co-determining factor in border controls? these issues have been resolved and answered. the question today is to strengthen schengen, to guarantee freedom of movement, to improve cooperation between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the border controls are reinforced and, at the moment, of course, while this debate is still ongoing, the questions that need to be answered immediately are: who exactly will have the right to a decision to reintroduce controls and under what conditions exactly will border controls be reintroduced with the new debate under way?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. firstly, that the current economic crisis in many countries of the european union will worsen living conditions for a new, much larger part of the population and that this must be tackled in a sustainable and coherent way. secondly, no bureaucratic, legalistic approach can overcome the political and humanist essence of such a question, and that is even more so in the present circumstances. i would point out, in view of the hypocrisy with which we are accustomed to approaching the whole of the matter, that according to our habits it seems that each of the inhabitants of europe of 27 can still throw away about 179 kilos of food, which of course can be edible for those who cannot even survive.
the socialist group is pleased that, 12 years after the ottawa convention, we have seen a significant reduction in the number of victims of antipersonnel mines. and we are proud that the european parliament has been and continues to be at the forefront of the international effort towards a world without landmines. but the work is not done, and thousands of people are still suffering the effects of these weapons. the report we are discussing today is an attempt to see how we can improve our international action so that we can achieve even better results in the future. it is time to look at the big picture and pursue an action against landmines that is as comprehensive, as coherent and as focused as possible on the interests of the populations involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external relations are not affected by the threat of nuclear proliferation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are protected, and that the child is protected in a manner that is compatible with the rights of the child. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van orden, in particular, for his excellent report and for the cooperation he has had with all the shadow rapporteurs throughout the preparation of this report.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the 'eu's foreign policies for democratisation' could well be the manual of action for every imperialist secret service for imperialist interventions in every country on the planet. the difference is that the european parliament cynically and openly proclaims in its report the eu's 'right' to intervene in every corner of the world, using the vulgar pretext of 'protecting human rights and democracy'. the political staff of imperialism recommends that the eu institutions exert pressure and open blackmail on the government of any country, using its economic relations with the eu as a lever. to impose compliance clauses with democracy and human rights - as of course the imperialist eu understands them - in every trade and economic transaction with third countries and then to impose economic (and therefore political) sanctions on them by reducing or stopping any eu funding if they do not comply with the imperialist eu's views on democracy and human rights. it calls on the eu institutions and member states 'to apply pressure on the governments of states with known negative human rights records whenever necessary'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the preparations for the russian state duma elections in december 2011 because it expresses the conviction that russia remains one of the european union's most important partners in building strategic cooperation, with which the eu shares not only economic and trade interests but also the objective of close cooperation in both their common neighbourhood areas and in the international arena.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the schengen system, as it expresses strong disappointment at the attempt by several member states to reinstate border controls, due to the massive influx of migrants from north africa. it is not possible for the states on the eu's external borders to be subjected to all the migratory pressure and for the other central european states to threaten to re-establish border controls, discriminating against the former and turning them into 'migration warehouses' for the whole of europe. the creation of the schengen area has established common external borders, which the eu has a shared responsibility to manage under the treaties. however, the eu has not yet fully complied with this requirement. the problem of illegal immigration must be tackled collectively. it is necessary, as the resolution rightly states, for the eu to develop a common policy on immigration, asylum and visas.
in writing. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. i voted against the resolution on interparliamentary cooperation in this field for the following additional reasons: the rights of national parliaments are being curtailed, as is the effective democratic control by the european and national parliaments of the whole of the european external action service, since it has become the executive organ of the cfsp. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. (a) the possibility of the interparliamentary assembly giving its opinion; (b) the right to adopt binding conclusions/resolutions, in particular as regards military and non-military missions, without prejudice to the existing powers of scrutiny of national parliaments; (c) the legal right to reject or approve any cfsp action and all military and civilian missions; (d) be informed in detail of any planned cfsp/csdp mission well in advance of any decision by the council to launch an operation; (e) the right to ask questions and to receive information; be an observer of the cfp/cfsp activities by visiting the current missions. finally, at the moment it is impossible for the european and national parliaments to check the 'secret budgets' of the csdp (athena and the future start-up fund).
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the programme for the distribution of food to the poor in the union, as it stresses the importance of providing assistance at european level to the most vulnerable and deprived members of society, especially in the light of the current economic, financial and social crisis, while also reminding us that one of the five objectives of the eu 2020 strategy is to reduce poverty and social exclusion in the european union and stresses the need for an integrated policy to combat poverty, linking decent incomes and living and working conditions and access to all fundamental rights: political, economic, social and cultural.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on progress in mine action. it is unthinkable in 2011 to still talk about landmines and young people being killed unjustly. in 2009, the number of mine deaths fell to less than 4000 (from 18000 in 1999), but despite the decrease, the number of casualties cannot be considered acceptable and should be reduced to a minimum. the search, detection and clearance of mines is a matter of the utmost importance and priority, which must be resolved immediately so that we do not even today talk about such unjust loss of human life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the van orden report because the eu is actively involved in mine action, particularly since the adoption of its joint action in 1995, and because it is committed to the objective of the universal prohibition and elimination of antipersonnel landmines (apls) worldwide;• bearing in mind that the eu is a leading supporter and financier of mine action, which is one of its priorities in the areas of human rights and humanitarian and development assistance.
madam president, we support the wto as the guardian of the rules-based international trading system and the role it can play in the transparent and optimal management of globalisation. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the wto rules to the wto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we therefore advocate the conclusion of the doha round negotiations through an ambitious, broad, coherent and balanced agreement. it has become clear that it is impossible to reach an agreement within 2011. in any case, it cannot be done at any cost to the union, which has made ambitious concessions and offers. the countries shaping up as emerging economies must assume their responsibility as global actors and make concessions commensurate with their level of development and competitiveness. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. as regards the agricultural negotiations, i would like to stress that agriculture is not just an economic activity but contributes to the achievement of fundamental public goods such as food security and food security. in any case, regardless of the outcome of the doha round, the wto is called upon, possibly on the basis of its reform - and arguments have been heard in this chamber in favour of the need to reform the world trade organisation - to respond to new global challenges and we must ensure the credibility of the multilateral trading system.
mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the outcome of the debate on the european union's strategy for raw materials and with the high quality of the final report which is being put to the vote in this house. i believe that the final text really contains those parameters - development, industry, environment, innovation - which should govern a dynamic european strategy for raw materials in the european union. a strategy is needed to strengthen the european union's growth potential and competitiveness; it will support and be supported by european industrial production, and will make use of domestic raw materials in conditions which are totally environmentally friendly. be linked to research and innovation, job creation and training of high quality human resources; will strengthen the european union's position in a volatile international environment where competition for access to dwindling natural resources is expected to be increasingly fierce. mr president, i would like to address the issue of rare earths which i have repeatedly referred to from this stand. i personally feel justified in insisting on this issue and in repeatedly raising it with the european commission. rare earths from a neglected exotic subject for a few experts ended up on the front pages of newspapers and magazine articles. they have acted as a useful symbol highlighting the european union's strategic dependence on raw materials and the need for a long-term, decisive policy where industrial, research and innovation efforts are backed up by clear and balanced international relations. i also feel justified in the fact that the european commission shares our proposal for the creation of strategic stocks of rare earths, as it has announced recently, in order to help maintain price stability and the smooth supply of european green and high-technology industry.
mr president, the palestinian problem is at a critical juncture. the palestinian authority is to raise the issue of immediate recognition of an independent palestinian state before the next united nations general assembly in new york on 20 september 2011. israel continues its attacks on the palestinian people, expands its unacceptable settlements and wall of shame in east jerusalem, in the west bank, keeps the gaza strip closed off. we condemn the pressure and economic strangulation exerted on the palestinian authority to prevent it from going to the un general assembly, the pressure to impose a solution which is contrary to the will, interests and rights of the palestinian people. we call on the governments of the member states of the european union to support the relevant resolution at the forthcoming united nations general assembly on the recognition of an independent, viable and sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, adjacent to israel, as a member state of the united nations.
mr president, for many years now the socialist group and the greek socialists have consistently supported the prospect of turkey's accession to the european union. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. a turkey threatening to use force against cyprus, a sovereign member state of the european union, if it exercises its sovereign right to extract gas within the demarcated exclusive economic zone in accordance with the international law of the sea. a turkey that says it will freeze its relations with the european union during the cyprus presidency in 2012. a turkey that is escalating tensions in the eastern mediterranean at a time of high liquidity and high risk. this is a question that turkey must answer and decide what it wants. i call on the commission to condemn these statements in its annual report and to stress that it is unacceptable for a candidate country to challenge the sovereign rights of a member state and to flout international treaties.
mr president, 20.7% of young people in the european union are unemployed. the figures are even more dismal in countries such as spain, where the unemployment rate for young people is 46.2%, while in greece the figure is 38.5%. in this admittedly unprecedented situation, europe needs a common strategy to tackle youth unemployment, perhaps even a new pan-european pact for employment. good examples exist, useful practices have been applied both in individual member states and in third countries. i am reminded of the cases of austria and the netherlands, and i am reminded of the campaign against unemployment of 400 billion dollars which the obama administration is now promoting in america. what is europe waiting for to take a similar coordinated initiative within its own sphere of competence? after all, it is morally and economically unfair that the debts of parents, the sins of parents, should be borne by children. it is morally and economically disastrous to allow the creation of a lost generation.
the first item is the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the application in the member states of the mediation directive, its implications for mediation and its approval by the courts (2011/2026 (ini)) (a7-0275/2011)
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would again like to thank the rapporteur for her good work and for the very objective and constructive discussion we have had in this plenary. i agree with you that mediation is a good example of modern justice. this directive is not a straitjacket for member states, but a framework under which they can develop their own systems. it is very important in dealing with the hugely complicated area of cross-border affairs, which we are trying to solve with one european measure after another. mediation is also very important for the parties involved because it is a win-win situation, as compared to lengthy court procedures – most of all (as has been said several times in this chamber) for family affairs. we need to have a broad information campaign in order to inform citizens that mediation is possible and to train the mediators so that they can be very efficient in carrying out mediation between the parties. there have been questions about alternative dispute resolution (adr). i would like to inform the chamber that in march 2011 a public consultation on commercial transactions took place. the responses we received show very strong support mostly for adr schemes in consumer disputes and also many demands for adr in online disputes. as a reaction to this, my colleague, commissioner dalli, will by the end of this year prepare a legislative proposal on adr in b2c and then, in the context of the digital agenda, there will be a regulation on online adr in 2012. i have asked my services to examine the issue of adr in b2b (business-to-business) questions, and here legislation is foreseen in 2012. because there is a lot of interest in the house with regard to family affairs – and rightly so – a working group on family mediation has been set up as a follow-up to the ministerial conference on family mediation held under the belgian presidency in december 2010 and a discussion in the council. we are taking this very seriously and are trying to bring the matter forward. you are absolutely right: particularly in the case of children, mediation is a much better solution than a court procedure.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2011 at 11.30.
the next item is the report by mr simon busuttil, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) (com (2010) 0061 - c7-0045/2010 - 2010/0039 (cod)) (a7-0278/2011).
madam president, we have constantly referred to the need for genuine solidarity between member states both in our immigration policies, in the fight against illegal immigration and in the protection of human rights. we are talking about security at the external borders, which is a prerequisite for the schengen acquis, and we are always referring to the concept of solidarity. the main instrument for implementing this solidarity is frontex, which we are discussing today. i would like to thank the commission and the council - and of course our rapporteur - for the fact that, after the negotiations that preceded it, we have reached a constructive agreement. with these decisions we are rising to the occasion, responding to needs, strengthening frontex, as we really need it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first concerns technical agreements with third countries. commissioner, we have repeatedly discussed, here in the house, the technical agreement with turkey, which has been stuck and is not moving forward on non-technical issues. what is going to happen with these agreements and what is going to happen now after the changes in the arab world and north africa? the second point concerns the local branches, which frontex has the power to decide on in terms of their operation. the first branch was established in piraeus. the reports we have in greece show that the presence of frontex in piraeus is particularly crucial for monitoring the businesses and monitoring the situation there and therefore it is important to stay after the evaluation that will follow. i would remind you that the piraeus branch is currently operating as a pilot project. so, should the annex be retained if the evaluations so require? we must also consider whether we need other branches in other countries.
in writing. the european galileo satellite navigation programme is undoubtedly ambitious and important. in any case, however, the provision of sensitive government services to users, even if they are strictly authorised, requires a strong legal framework and a particularly high level of security. as certain services may be politically and strategically sensitive, any concession is of particular greek interest. it is imperative that information be provided on a voluntary basis by the member states and subject to strict rules and supervision. the commission proposal and subsequently the present report from the committee on industry, research and energy are in this context and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the eu-brazil agreement, although concluded on 14 july 2010, has not yet been implemented for mainly technical reasons, despite the fact that it is considered to be important as it brings a number of advantages, especially in the trade sector. as the tenth largest economy in the world and one of the eu's largest trading partners, brazil is a major destination for exports of european goods and services. the agreement on mutual acceptance of certification findings is therefore moving in the right direction, creating conditions for trade development and potentially boosting member states' exports. the acceleration of its implementation is therefore welcome and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the agreements were reached at the request of norway and iceland and are intended to improve the process of extradition for the purpose of prosecution or punishment between the contracting parties on the basis of an extradition mechanism and an arrest warrant . agreements are acceptable as long as the provisions contained therein do not differ in substance from those already in force between eu member states. in any event, the functioning of the european arrest warrant offers room for further improvement and it is necessary that this be done soon in order to fully win the confidence of european citizens and to be a reliable pan-european tool in the fight against crime.
in writing. the financial crisis has, among other things, demonstrated the failure of the structured control mechanism and of the auditors to properly fulfil their control and social role, which is in fact both a cause and a factor of the crisis. i voted against this report because, while it identifies some of the main problems with the control mechanism, such as conflicts of interest in the sector, the independence of the auditors and the high concentration of the market in the four major companies in the sector, it fails to provide the appropriate framework for dealing with them. it simply proposes the use of some regulatory tools within the existing economic system which is primarily oriented towards protecting the interest of the markets rather than the people of europe. the role of audit policy is primarily social and must be integrated into a wider socioeconomic framework to protect and safeguard it. it is necessary to have an effective and high-quality audit system in order to safeguard democracy, transparency and the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ford report for three main reasons: the establishment of rules for environmental protection, the protection of workers and the sharing of responsibility between oil and gas companies in the event that their activities harm the environment. the report focuses on the effective prevention and response to pollution from offshore oil and gas extraction and production activities. it also stresses that these offshore activities pose a very high risk to the health and safety of workers and stresses that they must continue to be regulated to minimise human error and protect workers and be carried out in a way that avoids differences in the treatment of workers within the same company, depending on their place of work. oil and gas companies are required to submit concrete contingency plans in advance throughout the operational period and at all stages of offshore projects and to demonstrate that they have sufficient financial guarantees to ensure the restoration of the environment in the event of environmental damage. finally, no drilling will be permitted unless the project has been approved by the member state concerned.
member of the commission. − the intention is very clear. it is not about lowering the level of protection but ensuring that young people, after they enter the labour market, will build up a certain level of protection faster than in the previous period. there are many reasons why we would like to achieve this, such as competitiveness, because they need to integrate into the labour market and develop skills. but there are also, for example, demographic consequences that result from the young generation experiencing such a huge amount of uncertainty in their lives.
vice-president of the commission. − the honourable member is absolutely right: the proposal for the equal treatment directive is being blocked in the council. the commission has constantly tried to make a breakthrough. parliament has been constantly asking council to stop blocking it. i can tell you that the polish presidency is continuing the discussion on this directive and is focusing on the issue of age, for instance, or favourable conditions for older people, the treatment of minors and age in financial services. they have concentrated on this in order to at least find a way out where member states could discuss these issues. but i am very sorry to say so far – because you need unanimity in council for this directive – the council is continuing to block it and we cannot stop this.
vice-president of the commission. − if i am well-informed, there is no discrimination in the workplace on the basis of your agenda. one could discuss for a long time the position of women in the workplace, and there would be a lot to say on this question definitely, but i think that article 19 considers other things like housing or non-discrimination in general social affairs but not in the workplace.
madam president, studies show that the phenomenon of the working poor is expanding due to the uncontrolled spread of new forms of informal employment, such as rotating and part-time work, fixed-term contracts, pseudo-employment, subcontracting, thus undermining the objective of the european strategy "europe 2020" to combat poverty. how and under what conditions do you think the new flexible forms of employment can be combined with the fight against poverty in order to ensure in practice both increased competitiveness and a socially positive overall result?
member of the commission. − the issue of the working poor is indeed a major and increasing problem. in the aftermath of the economic crisis – the great recession – we observe with great concern the increasing number of working poor. it is obvious that structural unemployment has been a key factor in increasing poverty. that is why we concentrated on fighting structural unemployment. i think there is an overlap here and the content of our agenda is key to this issue: investment in skills and focusing on how this could be reinforced by vocational training through lifelong learning in order to maintain the competitiveness of the labour force. in fact, the dublin foundation, eurofound, recently proved in a quantitative study that there is a so-called hollowing-out phenomenon in the labour market, which means that the second and the third quintiles have shrunk in terms of earnings, while the number of jobs in the lowest and the highest two have increased. it is the second and third which are in the greatest difficulties. we therefore observe a major problem in terms of the integrity of the labour market. this is also connected with the problem of segmentation, which we tried to address in the agenda for new skills and jobs. the answer is clearly partly legislative: to ensure that contracts offering earlier protection become more widespread; that young people get into permanent jobs more quickly after leaving school; and that in all member states there are more opportunities to invest in skills at all levels and thereby help employees preserve their competitiveness in the intensely competitive environment.
madam president, in the strategy on health and safety at work, as its mid-term evaluation shows, the rapid expansion of informal forms of employment is associated with an increase in occupational risks. in this context, how does the commission see that in greece, for example, while government policy is leading to a disorderly increase in informal employment, at the same time there has been no provision for strengthening the framework for occupational risk prevention and its implementation?
vice-president of the commission. - thank you, mr. zalba, i like your proposal very much. it is very interesting and i think that parliament and the commission can work together towards this objective. i am in favour of this and my services can work together with the delegation of young members of the european parliament. i like the pilot project for young innovators. it's very important not to do the same thing with young entrepreneurs. it's very important to work for two different things. in my opinion, it can be done well. the commission will work with meps on this project.
madam president, when i hear talk of new forms of work in times of crisis, i begin to fear. because i know very well that new forms of work mean flexible forms of work, mean seasonal forms of work, mean fixed-term contracts, mean underemployment, mean teleworking. and all this translates into uncertainty about the future, it translates into a restriction of social rights, it translates into a restriction of pension rights, it translates into a very great ease of unjustified dismissals. there 's the word " jobber " . the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. is this the kind of working relationship you have for the future? will collective agreements be history for today's young people?
member of the commission. − this is a very timely question. in fact on thursday i will host a conference in brussels about wages and wage-setting, which will also discuss collective agreements and the role of the social dialogue in wage-setting in europe. i think this is a very important topic right now because of the developments not only in the labour market, but also in terms of economic governance in the european union, and the two are obviously interlinked. but i would like to express a doubt about simply looking at the new developments in a negative light. in fact many of these are also bringing new opportunities or just represent a necessary response to the challenges of the global economy. i think it has been proven in recent years that, for example, without flexibility there is just no competitive economy, which we also want to maintain and even further develop, but we have to find the right forms of flexibility. very often, as we learned in time of crisis, internal flexibility was the answer. the social partners also cooperated in terms of finding the best form of flexibility within a particular firm or within a particular industry. i think we have to maintain social rights as much as possible. we have to maintain the european social model and i think we have to look together for the necessary ways of adjusting this european social model, which will certainly have to be maintained.
madam president, i understand mr andor's answer, i understand that we must have a more positive spirit. but you must also understand that in times of economic crisis, the other currency is not employment, the other side of the coin is unemployment. i therefore urge the question of the younger generations, who are getting more education, acquiring more skills, but who are not finding work or are finding precarious jobs, without any rights at all. they need our protection.
member of the commission. − mrs harkin, if you would allow me, i would express some disagreement with this latest point. in the first decade of this century, technology was developing but we managed to increase the number of jobs in europe. the employment rate increased until the crisis. it was the crisis that destroyed a huge number of jobs, and not technology. technology of course continues to develop and new technologies will be introduced in the future. in many cases it will provide new opportunities because it will change the nature and profile of many jobs, but i really doubt that this is a big threat to our employment level. i believe we have to look at all possible consequences, and we should not portray technology as a big danger to our employment patterns.
commissioners, that is a very good thing to say. at the same time in greece the representatives of the troika, including the commission representative, are pressing for the abolition of collective agreements for greater flexibility in the market. this would be disastrous, given the structure of the greek economy. the european trade unions accuse you of interfering with the workers. i asked mr andor a question and he replied that collective agreements are a matter of national law. i would therefore ask the commissioner whether he insists on this statement that collective agreements are national law. and secondly, if that is the case, is the commission representative in the troika pushing for the abolition of collective agreements acting as a representative of the commission or as a representative of greece's creditors?
member of the commission. − i would like to insist that greece is a special case, especially now in this period. we should not look at the greek case as something that would be a template for others. we are much luckier than that and the greek situation requires very specific treatment. i was in greece twice earlier this year and also spoke with the trade unions – there was a european trade union conference in athens. i spoke last week with the head of the new task force which was established in july, and urged mr reichenbach to speak to the social partners as early as possible. i also believe it is right to maintain the role of the social partners. however, the role of the social dialogue and collective bargaining in an emergency situation cannot be the same as in normal situations. the emergency is an emergency and there are specificities in that. i think it is very important that greece receives sufficient support from other european countries and other sources, like the imf for example, but it is also important that greece delivers in terms of reforms and transformation because otherwise we will never arrive at a sustainable situation. it is in the interests of all parties involved to work for a more sustainable, stronger structure with greece involved.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if we were a year ago, indeed, greece was the problem. now, we have portugal, ireland, and possibly spain, italy and france. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of workers are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has taken any steps to ensure that the rights of workers are respected.
mr commissioner, a man, however poor he may be, when he walks down the street and sees a homeless man, thinks he has a huge distance from him. no poor person has in mind that he may someday become homeless. and yet, the difference is minimal, it's a hair's breadth. and this is proven in times of economic crisis. the rates of increase in homelessness are high. we feel it, and i use that verb because there are no statistics. but everyone in his country, in his place, in his neighbourhood knows what is happening and sees what is happening. when there is an economic crisis, there is poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. and suddenly a man becomes homeless. we must fight this. we must all help, not just individual member states. we need a european strategy, a european umbrella, to achieve the ultimate goal, which in my view should be the social reintegration of the homeless.
i'm the editor. - madam commissioner, thank you for being here. i should also like to thank richard seeber for his very important help in furthering this issue. we all know that a significant part of climate change is caused by gases other than carbon dioxide. but our climate policy is focused - and this was perhaps reasonable in the first phase - almost exclusively on carbon dioxide. this has a very high environmental and economic cost for ordinary citizens. and it is paradoxical - and it is hard to believe - that we still do not have a comprehensive policy to control these emissions, either in europe or internationally. one single non-carbon gas category, hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs), is projected to account for 20% of global emissions by 2050. and we know that from these hfcs, from one single category, hfc-23, following an initiative by parliament and commissioner connie hedegaard, and we must commend her for this, we will be able to save from 2013 onwards about 1 billion euros a year, which we have given without reason to the chinese and indian producers. the strategy we are proposing today will complement the strategy we have followed on co2 and energy efficiency and will also help the competitiveness of european businesses. and i want to say this, in particular, to colleagues who feel that we are trying to introduce another climate policy. instead, we are doing something that in the current environment of crisis will be economically beneficial for business as well. we can start this policy within two or three years at european and international level and have practical results within five to ten years and quickly and at spectacularly low cost, because as we discovered in the case of hfc-23 - and this is true of many other categories - we are not talking about 12 or 15 or 20 or 40 dollars a tonne, but we can talk about the corresponding amounts in cents (12, 15, 20 or 40 cents a tonne). many people are saying that we need a high carbon price. i would personally say that in the current crisis environment we need a low carbon price, if we can secure it from the market by undertaking such initiatives. i am sure that the commissioner and the commission will take such initiatives. i hope so, and i expect so.
commissioner, in may 2011 the european commission's draft regulation was formally adopted which prohibits the use of credits from industrial greenhouse gas projects such as hydrochlorofluorocarbons in the european union's emissions trading system after april 2013. however, this prohibition does not cover the national objectives of the member states of the european union for the sectors not covered by the trading system, such as agriculture and transport. this is important, since, according to the effort sharing decision, up to two thirds of the total emission reductions required by member states could be met through the use of credits. environmental organisations are calling on the european union to extend the ban on the use of such molecules to areas not covered by the marketing system. we are concerned that without a clear commitment some member states will be able to continue to use such credits to meet national targets, while companies are already prohibited from using them to meet their own emission reduction targets. i would ask the commissioner to give us a breakdown of the number of cases in which the commission has been involved.
mr barroso, all the speakers have accepted that we are facing a crisis not only of greece but also of the eurozone. i would add that this is the first time that such schizophrenic situations have been experienced in the european union since its founding. example one: you, the governments, all the institutions of the european union, accuse the rating agencies, those who speculate and attack the eurozone, while at the same time you do not take measures to control them and make them absolute "arbiters". second example: commissioner oettinger says that foreign civil servants should go to control the finances of over-indebted countries, considering that any country in need of solidarity should give up sovereign rights. the commissioner himself has asked for the flags of the countries in debt to be flown at half-mast, thus offending the sensibilities of the people, while he should have restored the insults he has hurled at the countries of the south. i would therefore ask you, mr barroso, what do you think of your commissioner making such statements? and what is the european union doing to defend the fundamental rights of workers in the european union?
mr president, from the outset we have considered that the agreement of the euro summit of 21 july 2011 was fragile and temporary. it's not just about greece. it is not just fiscal policy contradictions in the euro area. the people are faced with the immense risk of a new agreement within the european union on the debt of its member states; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers' health and safety, the protection of workers and the general welfare. the controlled bankruptcy in greece, that is, the depreciation of capital, which he provides for banks and others who hold government bonds, now seems small in comparison to what is needed to unlock the capitalist machine. the more easily the governments of the european union agree to the crushing of the rights of the working people, the more difficult it is for them to find out which monopolies and how much of their capital will be destroyed, which will win. what unites the european union - capital, bourgeois governments - is uncontrolled bankruptcy for the people by the crushing of the working people's rights. )
mr president of the european commission, you have said - and quite rightly - that the timely and full implementation of decisions taken by all the member states of the euro area, those receiving financial assistance, those assisted by the other member states, is a matter of paramount importance. you know, and we all know, that for the last year and a half greece has been making a tremendous effort to correct in a very short time not only deficits but distortions, errors, shortcomings and omissions of decades. it is a very difficult project which has produced results, has been successful and, of course, has been delayed and delayed in its implementation, because it is a different programme on paper and a different one in practice. we also know that greece has recently taken additional fiscal and structural measures to speed up the process and we will judge by their implementation. but it is not only greece that will be judged. we are all judged. and we are judged, first of all, by the tolerance and complicity we show in discussions of previously unthinkable things, such as the bankruptcy, coordinated or not, of a eurozone member country with or without leaving the euro. we're saying we have a crisis of confidence today. and rightly so. but unfortunately, most of us mean market confidence. the biggest problem is that trust is being eroded between us and all of us in the common currency. when we answer that, we'll regain the confidence of the markets.
mr president, the president of the council and the president of the european commission have spoken here of the discord in europe, of the need for responsibility and solidarity, of a return to growth, of the welfare of citizens, of jobs, of a comprehensive response to the problems. mr president, the euro and the steps taken in europe were made by political decisions. they were made by the leadership. they weren't random. and only through political decisions can we respond to the crisis. so yes, we must adhere to the community method. the union's support is a political decision and we support those speculators who find a fertile ground in unfortunate and inaccurate statements. we have tools for the crisis, and we can create more. we have the european semester and its evaluation, project bonds, but also eurobonds, the europe 2020 strategy, the multiannual financial framework, the european financial stability facility (efsf), the european financial stability mechanism. and we have a european commission which, on the basis of the institutions, can take initiatives and must take initiatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as for greece, it is not the only problem of the eurozone. to those who say that greece will go bankrupt, we say that our country will not go bankrupt. and it will not default because the greeks are willing to make sacrifices, not just for themselves, but for the obligations they have to the european union.
in writing. i think the council is making the same mistake again. it views the eu budget through a purely accounting approach as a budget of net expenditure. however, in the midst of the economic and social crisis that is plaguing europe and forcing member states to implement harsh austerity policies, we must defend the importance of the eu budget in boosting investment. it must be understood that the eu budget, which represents just 1.01% of eu gni, funds actions that either cannot be financed by the member states or that are financed at european rather than national level, which yields multiple benefits, mainly financial. that is its added value. it enhances the efficiency of national funding and leads to a reduction in overall expenditure by creating economies of scale through the concentration and coordination of resources and services. a typical example is the customs union, where 1 euro spent at eu level equals 4 euro savings for the member states. we must now, more than ever, call for support for areas that promote economic growth, such as cohesion policy, research and innovation, among others, thus strengthening efforts to save national resources and fiscal consolidation.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on energy market integrity and transparency, which i supported, is a first step towards creating a european framework to integrate national energy markets into a single european market. the proposal concerns wholesale energy markets and aims to regulate deficiencies in wholesale energy markets, such as the suspension of energy production capacity. the european energy framework is of particular importance and will be of particular concern to greece, particularly in view of the discussions on the country's energy policy and the full exploitation of alternative energy sources (such as solar) offered by new technologies.
in writing. the report aims to increase the eu's accountability to its citizens at a particularly critical time. access to documents and information is one way - and certainly not the only way - to ensure citizens' participation in the democratic process and to enhance the transparency of eu policies and actions, as set out in articles 9 to 11 of the treaty. in any event, whilst full access is granted to legislative documents, exceptions are found to non-legislative documents, which should be kept to a minimum and justified only by strict criteria (e.g. disproportionate damage to the public interest). the report, which i voted for, included this aspect.
in writing. in the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the doha development agenda, i voted against. the current rules of world trade, imposed by the wto, serve the interests of already rich countries and large business groups while widening the gap between them and poorer countries. the failure to implement this agenda is therefore mainly due to the very nature of the wto. unfortunately, instead of ensuring the conditions for global sustainable development, free trade at all costs leads to increased social inequalities, the abuse of natural resources and the increase in environmental pollution. developing countries continue to view world trade from a disadvantageous position compared to the big players, who set the rules, one of which is the eu. finally, this motion for a resolution does not promote an alternative system of fair trade.
in writing. smart legislation is about implementing legislation in the eu quickly, while minimising administrative costs and red tape. however, it is recalled that the programme's target of reducing this administrative burden by 25% by 2012 is very difficult to achieve. further simplification and rapid ex-post evaluation of the procedures for transposing directives to member states is therefore necessary. the community institutions and the member states have a major role to play in this simplification of procedures. although the procedures are quite technical and administrative, the result of administrative obstacles is that the functioning of the eu on the one hand and the citizens on the other hand are faced with considerable difficulties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the phenomenon of homelessness not only persists in the eu member states, but in some cases it is worsening and a new category of homeless people, the so-called 'new homeless', is emerging. the european platform to combat poverty and social exclusion, while ambitious, cannot tackle the whole problem on its own and it is therefore essential that the eu take immediate, new strategic action beyond the formulation of opinions and reports on the subject. the resolution responds to these needs by proposing a strengthened and more dynamic strategy to tackle the problem of homelessness at eu level by identifying methods and instruments which will provide the best possible continuation of the work started by the commission on homelessness. that is why i voted in favour of it.
madam president, the nato war against libya has culminated in the slaughter of many civilians in tripoli and other cities. the war machine of nato, the european union and the united states, with its bombing, is determining military developments and is therefore fully responsible for these crimes. the forces of the so-called rebels, led by former collaborators of gaddafi and under the banner of the monarchy, are completing this destructive work. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east, and we are calling on the united states to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. the aim of the war was not the imperialist ally gaddafi, but the complete control by the nato powers of oil and gas at the expense of their competitors. they seek to embody the strategy for the new middle east and crush popular uprisings in north africa and the middle east. the decision of the council of the european union on 1 april on the european union's ground military operation in libya shows that governments are increasingly developing imperialist aggression in order to secure shares for the benefit of european union multinationals in that country. the forces of european submission are exposed. after supporting the establishment of a no-fly zone, which was the prelude to the murderous war, they are now celebrating the victory of the opposition, that is, nato, and talking about turning the page on libya. the oil and reconstruction bargains at the paris conference show that the only way out for the peoples is the struggle against imperialism, against the european union and nato, it is the way to another society, to another development in this region, which alone can ensure peace and cooperation among the peoples.
madam president, in libya the battle of the forces against the authoritarian regime seems to be winning for good. the gaddafi regime, after a great deal of bloodshed, has withdrawn. today, the great issue is to rebuild on the foundations of democracy, equality and peace. but the situation is still extremely critical. thousands of people are in dire straits, without water, medicine and food. if we add to this the acute problems facing the refugees, it becomes clear that the european union has an absolute duty to help this country to get back on its feet. humanitarian aid is the absolute priority. but building a state of law, democratic institutions, avoiding a power vacuum, and reconciliation are among the great challenges we face as the european union. the union has not, however, been up to date on the libyan issue. it has failed to speak with one voice and has allowed nato to show that it is the only credible actor in the field of security. today, we are called upon to support the new libya that is being born and to guarantee respect for human rights for a better future for the population.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have had the great pleasure today of participating in this debate with the representative of the vice-president of the commission/high representative, mr dowgielewicz, and thus of showing the integrated approach of the external action service and the commission. i also think it is important to look at this debate from the position of our previous debate in march on our communication on a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity and also in terms of the european neighbourhood policy review. we should make sure that our reaction to crises like the one libya reflects these very important principles that we have debated and later agreed in these two important communications. i appreciate the strong message that has emerged in this debate. the european union has a strong interest in ensuring the emergence of a new libya, one that is democratic and fully integrated into the international community and the euro-mediterranean region. i would like to make three points about our assistance. firstly, before the fall of tripoli, we started cooperation with the national transitional council and civil society; our support includes technical assistance to help build state institutions and public administration capacity, support for the respect of human rights and democratisation, capacity building for civil society, assistance for education and the relaunch of schools, support for urgent needs in the health sector, and finally assistance to migrants and displaced people. secondly, the situation in libya has evolved rapidly since the capture of tripoli by opposition forces at the end of august. on 1 september 2011, an international conference of heads of state and government, international organisations and the libyan national transitional council took place in paris. partners engaged in continued support of the interim libyan authorities and established a friends of libya group of countries. the following day, 2 september, a technical meeting in paris called by the stabilisation response team of the ntc (the national transitional council) with major donor countries established the principles and scope for the post-crisis needs assessment phase and financial assistance planning. it was during those meetings that the president of the european commission, president barroso, – and later our colleagues – shared with other participants the paper ‘responding to the challenge of stabilisation in post-conflict libya’ and also an informal paper, ‘a rapid and effective european aid response for the challenges of stabilisation in post-conflict libya’. i will make sure that this paper is made available to this house. the strong messages passed by the ntc at these meetings were: respect for libyan ownership; close donor coordination under the lead of the united nations with a strong role played by the european union and the world bank; a pragmatic, operational and selective approach to the needs assessment on the basis of libyan priorities. at the 2 september conference, the european union was assigned sectoral leadership for civil society, including women, border management, and public assurance through media messaging. this choice was made with the full support of the new libyan authorities and, as my colleague already said, a joint external action service and devco mission has been deployed to tripoli since 11 september in order to prepare the needs assessment exercise. now, the european commission is ready to mobilise, at the request of the libyan authorities, further expertise and technical assistance for the post- conflict phase. in fact, we are re-focusing the medium-term funding foreseen for libya for 2011-2013 (eur 60 million) on the needs of the new libyan authorities. what i am trying to say is that events have developed faster than our ability to distribute the financial resources. during the debate, i took note of a number of very constructive proposals – such as from ms brandtner on issues of reconciliation, ensuring all perpetrators of violence are brought to justice, issues of security and justice, the role of the private sector including a code of conduct. i also heard mr mauro's idea to send a joint team, which will certainly be considered, and also ms de keyser's remark about looking at immigration from a different angle. i shall look at these seriously with my colleagues from the external action service, taking into account the principle i referred to earlier. my third and final point is that libya has ample resources. the swift unfreezing of assets should provide resources for reconstruction and restarting the economy. at the same time, it is important to ensure a sound framework for the management of oil and gas resources. once the stabilisation phase is over, the commission considers that it will be important to set the appropriate basis for long-term relations with the new libya. we should be ready to conclude an agreement with libya similar to the agreements that are in force with all other neighbouring mediterranean countries. this would send a strong signal that the european union is ready to establish a strong partnership with libya based on shared interest and mutual respect.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first of all i would like to say that i think this debate today proves that both the european strategy and the international community’s strategy on libya in the last few months have brought positive results. libya has been an important test for the european foreign and security policy after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i think the european union has passed this test very well. this debate today showed that libya is not just about some far-away country where people are fighting, but is an issue which is very important to the public in the european union. europeans are avidly following what is happening and what will happen in libya. of course, this puts an additional burden of responsibility on us in the european union and we take this task very seriously. we have to support the libyans in their newborn independence as much as we can during the difficult transition. i think that the debate today also showed that in all those efforts to help libya there is room for ngos, civil society, business, governments, parliaments and international organisations. this is very much the approach that the high representative is taking. the external action service will support all these efforts in all dimensions. a number of speakers raised the question of the violations of human rights and the risk of violations of human rights. if you take note of the statement of the high representative on this issue, it is very clear that this will be a very serious issue for the european assessment of the situation. it will, of course, also be an important responsibility for the ntc (national transitional council) to ensure that all international standards are observed where they are in control of the situation. of course, the same approach will apply where the other side is concerned. in any case, the issue of human rights will certainly be at the core of european policy vis-à-vis a new libya. i will end here. thank you very much for this debate and i look forward to the resolution that you will hopefully adopt tomorrow.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2011 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries agreements concluded with the countries of the mediterranean are respected. there is a lot of tension, tension that can develop into a real crisis. one of the main reasons for this dangerous situation is the refusal of a candidate country for accession, turkey, to accept the possibility for a member state of the european union, namely the republic of cyprus, to exercise its legal and sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone. it is of additional concern that this refusal is accompanied by official statements and threats of a strong response, including military response, should these rights be exercised by the republic of cyprus. it is, of course, necessary to mention that the exploitation of these resources is compatible with the need for energy security in europe and the diversification of energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the people of europe. but to prevent this, the european union's deterrent diplomacy must be active and decisive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, there are many interesting things to be heard today in this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. corruption at the level of public officials is not an issue that is only addressed by sanctions on governments and member states. the tango, as it is commonly called, takes two to dance. so on the one hand, there is the state official who is being paid, who is taking the kickback, the illegal commission; but there is also the person who gives it, the individual or, more often, an institution, a company. the union's legislative and political initiatives must therefore be directed with equal attention both towards the imposition of sanctions on the member states and those involved in one way or another in bribery cases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. the 120 billion euros lost to corruption in the european union every year are taken from national economies that are far from surplus. and since we are discussing today the closing of the gap between law and reality, what we should first look at is how to close once and for all the loopholes in the laws that exist in many member states, and how to give at the same time the right tools to every european citizen so that they can report instances of corruption quickly, easily and safely.
the commission's package is important, mr president, but so is the fact that the council and the commission are working together on this matter. corruption is of course an international threat to the security of europe and to the security of the member states. in fact, apart from corruption at the political level, there is plenty of corruption at other levels that organizations use today, such as the internet, to the extent that their prosecutors, namely the police authorities, are always lagging behind and coming in second. after all, this is about democratic processes, since there are people who have a lot of money, they can influence the functioning of democracy and we don't even know where the money comes from and often we don't even know who it is. the european union must be able to take action in the fight against terrorism. it doesn't mean that we're optimistic that all of this can be solved. because what we have in common, open borders, free movement, the internet, etc., are all, of course, in essence, facilities for people who are corrupt. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. even the smuggling of cigarettes, as you know, is as expensive in the world as just legal circulation. but a coordinated step-by-step effort, which will monitor in the right way, alert national governments and put pressure on national governments, on the part of the european commission, to take action, i think is the best we can start doing right now.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is indeed a fast-changing area with a huge potential and it is very exciting. as you know, there will be an agenda point regarding the spectrum for broadband, judging by the position emerging throughout the world. we are actively looking at spectrum for mobile broadband and will, by the end of the year, already have harmonised over 1 000 megahertz, which is world-leading. as you know, the commission cannot speak at the conference in 2012, but we are seeking discussions and the role of the union is under consideration for future conferences. this will not, of course, hinder us from seeking maximum coordination for the voice of europe in this context. the inventory is a very important issue and it is a core proposal of the radio spectrum policy programme. we take the views of parliament very seriously in this debate and in developing spectrum policy. the radio spectrum policy programme will guide the strategic dimension of spectrum policy. the regulatory framework for electronic communication services and network assigns a new and very important role for parliament. the communication from the commission to the parliament and the council, which you are debating here and will debate, and your response to this will be very important for us in policy formulation, so we look forward to continuing the discussions on this with you. i would like to thank you for this debate.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the president of the court of first instance shall be assisted by a judge-rapporteur. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2011 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the resolution on libya supports the continuation of the nato bombing and air operation 'as long as necessary to protect the libyan civilian population'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is being done by those who have been cooperating for years with the gaddafi regime, with virtually no regard for the freedoms, rights and interests of the libyan people. it is a hypocritical resolution which does not condemn or even acknowledge the responsibility of the leaders of the eu member states, neither for the cooperation, trade and substantial support they have provided to the gaddafi regime until recently, nor for what they are really doing now with the destruction and military interventions, nor for their real objectives which are none other than plundering, the usurpation of the wealth of the libyan people for their own benefit and that of the oil multinationals. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in libya. the fall of the 42-year-old gaddafi regime is welcomed by the eu. however, the restoration of internal calm and the establishment of democracy in the country require continuous help and assistance from the international community. the region's proximity to the eu has objectively increased europe's role. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the development of the internal market, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the fight against poverty, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the fight against hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, the hunger, and the hunger. but to do that, we need infrastructure and basic needs for the libyan people. the eu is providing emergency aid of €70 million to enable the humanitarian office in tripoli to function.
in writing. the kke votes against the resolution on syria, which it regards as a provocative open intervention in the internal developments of a sovereign, independent country. the political staff of the monopolies, which crush the rights and lives of workers in the member states, which support israel and deny the palestinian people the right to a sovereign, independent state, with imperialist interventions all over the world, cannot tolerate the defender of popular freedoms. the european union monopolies are only interested in the wealth-producing sources and energy routes in the region, where acute rivalries between imperialist powers are intersecting. the eu is applying to syria the tried and tested recipe of imperialism in libya. it makes its political staff shed crocodile tears for the civilians, democracy and democratic rights that the regime violates, it supports the mechanisms of the imperialist centers as "defenders of freedom" cultivating a climate of civil conflict, to give the eu-nato-us imperialists the pretext for war against the syrian people. the same was done by the european parliament with the resolution on libya which called for a 'no-fly zone', the pretext for nato-eu-us bombing against the libyan people. the syrian people, the peoples of the region can only solve the internal political problems of their country by fighting against capitalist exploitation, by overturning imperialist machinations and interventions.
in writing. the famine facing east africa - the worst in 60 years - has led to the loss of 750,000 human souls, while another 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti are in urgent need of food aid. the worst finding, however, is that the situation in the horn of africa will worsen further, mainly due to drought, with the most dramatic situation being in october 2011 and no prospect of improvement before the beginning of 2012. at the same time, armed conflicts, such as in somalia, are aggravating the situation. the joint resolution is an urgent call to the commission and the member states to speed up humanitarian aid, improve transparency and control mechanisms in the committees and organisations managing its distribution and channel a greater proportion of eu official development assistance to agricultural production and livestock farming in developing countries to boost food security. however, it is clear that unless these actions are combined with dynamic initiatives at political level to create conditions of political normality in the region, at least in the long term, the containment of the humanitarian crisis is not assured.
in writing. noncommunicable diseases are cumulatively the number one cause of death not only in the eu but also in the rest of the world. the most sad finding, however, is that childhood cancer is increasing in europe at a rate of over 1% per year, while almost all non-communicable diseases are clearly increasing. the joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, on the position and commitment of the european union on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases calls for vigilance on the part of the commission and the member states. stresses the need for a political commitment by the commission and the member states to tackle non-communicable diseases with the aim of reducing preventable mortality from msds by 25% by 2025; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. first, there is currently no eu-wide strategy or initiative aimed at tackling specific diseases (e.g. type 1 and type 2 diabetes) in their entirety, and second, only 3% of total health expenditure is directed towards prevention, creating obvious gaps in the effort to stem the rise in noncommunicable diseases.
the committee on fisheries adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, as an alternate member of the committee on fisheries, i represent my colleague mr wałęsa, who unfortunately cannot be present at this plenary session. this report is of major importance for european research and innovation policy as it seeks to reduce overlaps and waste and to set common european objectives and mechanisms for research and innovation funding. many countries, including unfortunately my own, are still far from achieving the 3% of gdp target for research and innovation by 2020, which is undoubtedly leading to a two-speed europe. and when we talk of research shortages, we do not mean only high-tech sectors. the need to support fisheries research is particularly important, though not obvious. research and development activities in the neglected fisheries sector can shape a more competitive, sustainable, modern fishing industry and greatly benefit europeans who depend on fishing.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll give you a few clues: in april 2011, the european union signed the agreement allowing free access to the european market for palestinian agricultural and fishery products and their derivatives. the agreement abolishes customs duties on imports of palestinian agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. we would point out that these provisions do not apply to fruit and vegetables for which the system remains as it is. this agreement will be in force for a period of 10 years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it should be noted that the palestinian authority is currently the union's smallest trading partner in the region. the volume of trade for 2009, according to the commission's figures, amounted to eur 56,6 million, of which only eur 6 million were imports from the palestinian authority. an increase was observed in the first quarter of 2010 by around 26% for union exports and 32% for exports of the palestinian authority. it is clear to us that the future of the region depends on its economic development. trade is a mechanism that makes a significant contribution to poverty reduction and political stability. the world bank figures show that the majority of the population lives in extreme poverty, and illegal settlement, which has been repeatedly condemned by the european union, plays a major role in this. the union is the largest donor of aid to the palestinian authority and israel's main trading partner. it is therefore in the best interest of the union to persuade both sides to come to the negotiating table so that a viable palestinian state can be established which will coexist peacefully with israel. the tense atmosphere throughout the arab world demands this, and in view of the debate in the plenary tomorrow afternoon, i believe it is appropriate for the european parliament to be able to maintain a unified position on the question of palestine, which, after all these years, must finally be justified. i would like to return to the agreement, which i consider to be very important for the palestinian side. it is an important message, especially at this moment, to the palestinian authority and it must be approved immediately so that it can be put into effect immediately. this will be important for peace and stability in the wider region.
member of the commission. - i just want to reinforce the idea i stated at the beginning: this agreement is an opportunity. it is not likely to solve all the problems in the region and it is not likely to be the only means available to the european union to make a positive contribution towards clarifying the situation in the region. but there is a real opportunity there and it is of course up to the palestinian authority, now the palestinian people, to seize that opportunity. i see mr. ferreira has already left the room. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wish to be clear about that. the european commission - through the agreement it has concluded with israel, through the agreement it has now negotiated with the palestinian authority - is trying to ensure that products from the israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories do not enter the european union. there are clear safeguards both in the agreement with palestine, which we are now submitting to parliament for approval, and in the agreement with israel, which requires certificates of origin for products from israel, as well as for products from palestine. for israeli fruit and vegetables for which israel has to carry out origin checks, the codes of the place where these products originate are even requested, so that the customs authorities of the european union can carry out the checks. however, this is not a way of transferring responsibility from the commission to the member states, since responsibility for border control lies with the member states. the commission has created the necessary instruments to enable the member states and the customs authorities of the member states to do their job. in the agreement we are now proposing, we also have this safeguard to ensure that - thanks to the certificate of origin which is issued only by the palestinian authorities for palestinian products destined for the european union - these instructions written on paper are also respected in practice. so in conclusion - again, i am not saying that we should have this kind of relationship only with palestine and not with israel - in the case we are presently submitting to your approval for relations with palestine in the field of agricultural trade, i think we have the elements that can ensure that what is written on paper will be respected on the ground. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. i hope the votes will be positive tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i thank the commissioner for his explanations on this last point, which are very important because, in fact, we had a long debate in committee about how the origin of the products from the settlements would actually be ascertained because for many members, and i am not only speaking for my political group but also for other members, these are products coming from the settlements and would be a way of rewarding illegal settlement. so the clarifications really put our minds at ease, and we thank you very much. i would like to thank my colleagues at the end of the debate for this debate and for the great real opportunity which we are offering the palestinian people through this report and the agreement we have reached. we all agree, i think, in this house that this agreement is a first step towards the development and prosperity of a people who have suffered a great deal in recent years. the principle in this report was that the agreement should not be held hostage to other agreements which must go their own way and follow their own separate course. the palestinians must not be held hostage again by other issues. each issue has its own specific weight: we have therefore asked and tried to have this agreement evaluated and promoted separately. so this is a great opportunity for the palestinians, for the middle east, a first - albeit small - step towards peace. i would like to thank my colleagues once again for this opportunity which we, as the european union, are offering to the palestinian people.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one. it is facing challenges that require new concrete responses and adaptation efforts. in the context of an unprecedented economic crisis in europe, tourism is emerging as the most appropriate economic activity for creating new jobs, ensuring income for local communities by supporting regional development and promoting the competitiveness of a wide range of businesses. to achieve the maximum use of this potential, measures and policies are needed to coordinate, harmonise and improve the quality of the european tourism product. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new guidelines and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new guidelines. the development and promotion of diversified forms of tourism may be the only effective response to the distortions, problems and degradation caused by the model of mass development we have had up to now. the report also examines the support for actions with the necessary funding to promote the diversification of tourist offerings in the union, the need to deal with seasonal variations in tourist activity, the use of information technology, the support of small and medium-sized enterprises through innovation, the reduction of accessibility problems in island and mountain areas, the introduction of social tourism initiatives - tourism for all, the introduction of the principles of interregionality and complementarity, the improvement of the quality of the services provided, the possibility of adopting a map of the rights and obligations of tourists, and the facilitation of tourist visas, mainly from the b.r.i.c. countries. the european parliament's report sets out an ambitious framework to make european tourism a competitive, modern, sustainable and responsible industry. it also aims to restore the damaged relationship between tourism development and the environment. the exploitation of the diversity, the diversity, the multiculturalism of the european tourism product offers the maximum possible development of each form of thematic tourism and is certain to bring european added value to the tourism policies of the member states. we call on the european commission to present by the end of 2012 a comprehensive strategy for implementing the actions proposed in this report.
mr president, commissioner, it is a very happy occasion that we are discussing the report on tourism today and that we will be voting on it here in the house tomorrow, on european tourism day. it is a very good report and i believe it gives the commissioner the support he needs, and we want him to be even more ambitious in the tourism sector. i asked for the floor to raise a point: the question of the european heritage label. it is very important, it enhances the competitiveness of european tourism, but to do that we must keep european cultural heritage sites open all year round and we must encourage the member states to ensure that. i would go one step further and punish those heritage sites which for whatever reason cannot be visited all the days of the year by removing the sign.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but it is also necessary to shed light on the deeper factors. the forecast of a deep recession from the horizontal austerity measures had been made from the outset but was not taken sufficiently into account. the troika insisted on committing itself to unattainable budgetary targets and the greek government passively accepted everything and, of course, failed to meet them. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. we have in vain proposed simple and effective measures to control the wealth created by corruption and tax evasion. a recent law on arbitrary construction grants fines totaling more than 10 billion euros. it took months of painstaking effort until greek deposits abroad were checked for the origin of their funds and not just for taxing interest as the greek government was trying to do. so there is a huge credibility gap that is in danger of not being taken for granted.
mr president, i am pleased to inform the house that last week greece paid the sum of eur 769 million in bond coupons maturing in 2037 and 2040 respectively. it has once again shown that, despite the stubbornness of experts and ignorant officials and incompetents, greece is meeting its financial obligations, and its people have suffered a huge reduction in their income to the point where they can no longer get any more. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the partners who have shown solidarity with greece. i am referring to mrs merkel, who gives the great assurance that so far greece has paid and is making profits on the loans you have given us. in an appeal not to the solidarity but to the honesty of the german people, i would ask you to read carefully the sunday edition of die welt, which lists all the figures for the occupation loan, which bring germany's debt to greece to 70 billion. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. instead, we have a barrage of incoherent and often contradictory statements, interviews and opinions. the council, the commission, the commissioners, the ministers, the vice-ministers, the central bank, the partners, the advisers, the advisers of the advisers, the assistants of the assistants, all speak, a veritable 'european babel'. but this feeds market nervousness, increases uncertainty, deepens mistrust, erodes efficiency. greece in particular is receiving simultaneous messages of solidarity and punishment, support and threat, optimism and disaster. this immobile hanging does great harm. it is a matter of the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the commission and the council. we must put an end to this european babel. now, today, not tomorrow. it will be good for greece, it will be good for europe, for its prestige, its credibility and its efficiency.
madam president, today, among other things, we are looking at ways of helping developing countries to solve their food problems and, adding to what the honourable members have said, on the one hand we are drawing up policies - we are discussing today the excellent report by mrs zimmer and we thank her and we are hearing from the commission all the planning and initiatives - but on the other hand, the commission announced on 10 may that it is considering cutting by half or more the countries benefiting from the gsp. i fully understand the meaning of this announcement and have studied it. i would like to ask the commission, however, and i would like an answer: how do these commission communications fit in with our commitment to increase aid to developing countries?
madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank our rapporteur, mr cavada, and to add that this report is being discussed on an important day: today is european day of languages. it is a day which reminds us that the european union wants multilingualism and diversity, supports diversity, supports multiculturalism. the european school is a model educational institution, and it has achieved remarkable results. and it is certainly not a luxury but a right in the united europe we live in, so that the children of european union officials, and not only, can be educated in their own language. the european school's history of almost 50 years of operation leaves no doubt. basically, it's a successful new model of education. we have financial problems in this area too. but certainly, the right to education, and indeed to learn our mother tongue, must not be taken for granted.
in writing. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his very important report. the low absorption of cohesion policy resources translates in practice into untapped development opportunities for the regions. at a time when most member states are facing significant fiscal pressures, the timely and high-quality absorption of the significant resources allocated to each region through cohesion policy can be a key driver of growth and cohesion, not only at national level but also overall at eu level. the positive aspect is that we are now able to know to a large extent the main reasons which prevent the regional authorities from making proper use of these resources. the reasons are given in detail in the report. i would therefore like to welcome the commission's initiatives and efforts to provide technical support to bodies lacking sufficient administrative capacity, and to help member states which, because of the crisis, cannot meet the requirements of cofinancing. as the european parliament, we have shown that we are ready to contribute to any effort to simplify the rules, to balance resources and effort between checks and results, to deal with fraud and irregularities in a differentiated way, to provide technical support to bodies with insufficient administrative capacity.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 'european disaster response: the role of civil protection and humanitarian aid' (a7-0283/2011)
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. - madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done and to express my satisfaction both for the particular importance given to fire prevention and management and for the fact that the main positions of the committee on regional development are incorporated into the final text. as the committee on regional development, we would stress above all that the solidarity clause introduced by article 222 of the lisbon treaty can and must be an important basis for further strengthening and supporting the action of the member states in the field of civil protection by the european union. we also recall the role and responsibility of regional and local authorities, the important role of the european regional development fund and the need to make use of the valuable experience gained at regional level through interregional cooperation programmes, and finally that coastal, island and mountain areas are particularly vulnerable to disasters because of their geographical location. in conclusion, i would ask the commissioner to comment on point 7 of the report on the establishment of a european union civil protection force.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this report. the report stresses both the need to improve european disaster response mechanisms through the optimum use of resources and to ensure the european solidarity that we so badly need at this time. with the increasing pace and intensity of natural and man-made disasters, there is a growing need for greater efficiency at all levels of european disaster management, including prevention, preparedness and recovery. i would like to focus on the prevention aspect: it would be possible to save money and time if we invested more in prevention than in treatment and rehabilitation. the increasing rate of climate change and the depletion of natural resources will further increase the chances of more frequent and more intense natural disasters. combating climate change and managing natural resources rationally is a smart preventive investment that will save not only lives but also precious resources in times of economic crisis. in this context, our amendments, adopted in the committee on the environment, have emphasized this very finding and the need for more effective emergency response planning for oil spills, nuclear and other hazardous materials. they also stressed the need to apply the 'polluter pays' principle more effectively in relation to liability for environmental damage. the gulf of mexico and fukushima accidents must never be erased from our consciousness.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the colleagues who have worked so hard on this report. the report is a report which, as is clear from the speeches by my colleagues, has been met with a great deal of agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is the second report we are voting on here in the european parliament in a short space of time, after the report on forestry protection which calls for action to protect europe's forests. europe's forests, which are essential to tackling climate change, are also essential to adapting, to preparing our societies to deal with climate change. the forests are threatened by fires, floods and many other extreme events due to global warming, and the whole of europe is threatened by these phenomena which, because of their transboundary nature, require us to take action. the commission must certainly act accordingly and we await its answer as to whether it will proceed with the white paper on forest protection, whether we will finally have legislation to adapt our forests to climate change. with this report, parliament is calling for the second time for legislation to prevent forest fires, a resource-saving measure which is essential in this economic climate. when fires and other extreme events occur, a flexible solidarity mechanism adapted to local needs is required, which can, with a common european response, respond to them.
member of the commission. − mr president, we will consider that once we have a concrete request from one of those two countries.
i would like to put a question to commissioner georgieva. point 7 of the report refers to the setting up of a european union civil protection force. what power is that exactly, commissioner, because i can't understand it?
member of the commission. − mr president, my apologies but i did not understand the question. i mentioned a clash between civil protection and ... what? i apologise, may i just ask for clarification?
point 7 of the report mentions the establishment of a civil protection force. what will this force look like? i would like to have some details on this.
member of the commission. − the proposal for building the civil protection system of europe in a more predictable manner in order to act when a country is overwhelmed by disaster either inside europe or outside europe requires countries to identify modules, civil protection modules, which they are willing to deploy in a disaster outside of their borders. as of today, we have 124 such modules registered at european level, plus eight coordination modules, and the proposal means that we will be able predictably to match the needs of a country in a disaster, whether this be floods, forest fires or summer or winter storms or an earthquake, and then bring help from those pre-identified and pre-committed modules to the affected population. we already have examples of how this can be achieved. the proposal will take one step forward by having member states commit these modules to be available, provided they are not needed at home, for immediate deployment inside the european union or at the request of a third country outside of the european union. that brings the capacity of the european union together, to respond to disasters with a stronger force than we could provide for our citizens and the citizens of the world without this pre-commitment.
madam president, i would like to remind everyone that, with the new strategic concept and the responsibilities of nato, much of what is contained in the report will fall, as was decided by the members of the north atlantic alliance themselves, under the responsibility of nato. the report makes no mention of coordination of operations or cooperation with nato. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air traffic control' to cover all air traffic controllers. this will ensure non-discriminatory access to flights between the eu and mexico, but will also enhance flight safety levels.
in writing. europe, despite the economic crisis it is facing, is the most prosperous region on the planet. however, total expenditure on research, development and innovation (less than 2% of european gdp today) is significantly below the corresponding investments in other developed countries, such as the us and japan. the development prospects and, of course, the maintenance of the high standard of living are not therefore assured. on the contrary, circumstances call for a common and generous strategic framework for funding research and technology in the eu that will encourage entrepreneurship, innovation and development. they require strengthening the european research area and reorganising existing institutions and programmes, as well as bold policies such as financing, through the european investment bank, small and medium-sized enterprises that promote innovation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. the kke opposes the report because it harmonises scientific research in the context of the anti-people eu 2020 strategy, which treats scientific research as a key pillar subordinate to capital. the report proposes financial support for the 'centres of excellence' and funding from the industrial sector. it encourages researchers to become entrepreneurs and seek funding so that scientific research can be exploited for the profit of capital. it called on the eu to set up research monitoring and financing teams at local and european level. in the context of the capitalist crisis, the research sector is an important part of the strategy of european union capital in developing its profitability and its competition with the large and emerging imperialist states. the eu staffs intend to invest large funds in research exclusively geared to the production of 'competitive products, technologies and services' (e.g. galileo satellite programme), through research mobility programmes (marie curie programme), centres of 'excellence' for researchers and institutes, private and public sector partnerships, grants to enterprises, so that research in universities and research centres can be more organically aligned with the strategy of capital. today, it is more timely and necessary than ever to free research from the laws of private property and monopoly profit.
in writing. in the context of regional development, the development and sound use of financial resources is crucial to eliminate economic, social and regional disparities, particularly for the least developed and disadvantaged regions. the inability to absorb funds is even more acute in the present circumstances, in the light of the economic crisis and the austerity policies chosen to deal with it. the report makes some correct assumptions about the importance of absorbing the structural funds and the cohesion fund from the regions of the union and identifies several of the problems in this process. i voted against because the 'public-private partnerships' method is presented as a solution to increase absorptivity and it is proposed that national legislation be amended to make it better and simpler to institute, with a view to further facilitating such partnerships. experience to date has shown that the public service compensation schemes, both at regional and local level, are designed to serve private profit rather than to maximise social benefit. the cost of implementing them is proven to be higher, their economic efficiency reduced and their quality low. finally, the benefits do not directly flow to local economies and societies but, on the contrary, create additional burdens and disruptions.
in writing. one of the most discussed political issues, not only in greece but also in the other member states, is the rate of absorption of community resources provided by the structural funds and the cohesion funds. low absorption rates are not always the result of weakness on the part of the member states but, in many cases, are due to problems inherent in the funds themselves (e.g. very specialised, unusable or less functional programmes which make absorption difficult). in any case, however, the absorption of resources is in proportion to the ability and adequacy of central and local authorities to draw up appropriate programmes and projects and to monitor the implementation of these programmes, avoiding possible irregularities. the report also identifies a common ground for all the member states and therefore for greece. recognises that the economic crisis makes it difficult for member states to participate in co-financed projects with the required national participation and proposes flexible practices to allow community resources to be released more quickly and invested more efficiently.
in writing. the report on 'a stronger european response to disasters', while stating as its main objective the strengthening and improvement of the european response to major disasters, contains several ambiguities on key issues of moral and social freedoms. first, the provision for triggering the 'solidarity clause' as formulated through the treaty of lisbon allows for the subjective attribution of terms such as terrorism and man-made disaster. the report also provides for the use of military means under civilian protection to deal with disasters without again diligently clarifying the nature of these disasters. finally, the prospect of the widespread use of opaque satellite monitoring systems such as galileo involves the risk of these systems being used for the purpose of monitoring the actions of social and political groups. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. europe, like the rest of the planet, is experiencing increasingly extreme natural phenomena, natural and man-made disasters. the deadly fires, particularly in the mediterranean forests, which afflict greece almost every summer, are only one form of this. the european union has been the victim of a series of catastrophes that have cost european countries a total of over eur 210 billion over the last 20 years. this growing trend requires two main strategies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lisbon treaty meets these two conditions by establishing new legal bases for civil protection and humanitarian aid to ensure a rapid and effective response to disasters occurring in the eu and beyond. it is in everyone's interest that there should be a european civil protection mechanism, backed up with the appropriate resources and the necessary know-how to ensure its successful operation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. the european parliament's report and the commission's communication are far from innocent. the eu legislative framework for the eu civil protection mechanism has already been extended to include actions to 'combat terrorism'. in this context, it proposes the establishment of a civil protection force on the basis of a 'all-hazards approach' with 'synergies between the various existing tools and instruments'. it proposes activating and implementing the 'solidarity clause' introduced by the lisbon treaty, which allows the eu to intervene in the internal political affairs and developments of a member state, including 'to counter threats to public order and security'. behind the loud calls to respond to forest fires or other environmental hazards or natural disasters, there are plans to use military means, as well as the use of existing monitoring systems such as the gmes and galileo satellite systems. the infrastructure and conditions are being created for close coordination and mutual support between military and civilian means so that an upgraded eu civil protection system can take on even more militarized characteristics and structure.
in writing. the european parliament's own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, sets out proposals to make the eu the world's number one tourist destination. this is an objective of considerable interest to greece, particularly when the country is investing heavily in the tourist product in the hope that this will help to stem the negative growth rates of the economy. it is noted that tourism now accounts for more than 10% of european gdp, and an important point for greece in the report is the reference to the need to harmonise vat in order to avoid monopolies and to maintain them at levels that will make the tourist product of the member states competitive. although the report is not binding, it contains important proposals and strategic guidelines for boosting tourism in the eu, which member states can take advantage of.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fidanza report because europe must continue to take coordinated action to promote european tourism. european tourism is an important tool for promoting european culture and is an important source of income, particularly in some southern member states which do not have heavy industry.
in writing. despite the decline in road accidents, the eu still loses a city's worth of people (35000 victims) in fatal road accidents every year. road behaviour is certainly one reason for these losses. however, no one can deny the importance of well-built and modern road infrastructure in the effort to prevent road accidents. unfortunately, the economic crisis has led to many co-financed road projects being suspended or postponed due to the inability to pay the national contribution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the current situation. the report by mr van miert, which i voted in favour of, recognises the challenges of the present and proposes flexible procedures to facilitate the absorption of resources. it also notes the need for quantitative targets for the member states and for the evaluation of national policies, by drawing up and publishing national road safety plans based on harmonised common guidelines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the koch report because road safety is a major european issue. it is worth noting that a coordinated approach to road safety, such as the reform of the road traffic code, better training and testing of would-be drivers and, in general, traffic lawsuits, are actions that have contributed to the percentage reduction in road accidents in europe. indicatively, there was a 37% decrease compared to the year 2000 and, as it seems, this decrease continues in 2011.
in writing. i voted in favour of the deva report on the financing of infrastructure for dam construction in developing countries because, considering that water is a vital resource for agriculture and for the livelihoods of the population of developing countries, the report's proposals are moving in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
in writing. the issue of food security and food self-sufficiency is of paramount importance to the eu. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's position on a more coordinated eu development policy in relation to global food security. the eu has a responsibility to respect the principle of 'doing no harm' to developing countries' food markets and to adopt a fair trade strategy. the question of fuels of agricultural origin is also very important, the production of which should in no case result in a reduction in the available agricultural production for food purposes.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the relevant report on trade policy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, which strengthens the aggressiveness of monopoly business groups in eu member states and third countries to plunder the people and boost the profitability of monopolies even in conditions of capitalist crisis. the people know that when the bourgeoisie speaks of "opening markets" - "free trade zones", they mean an attack on popular conquests, intensification of exploitation, increase in unemployment, poverty, imperialist interventions that will ensure the profits of the monopolies. it is in the interest of the peoples to reorganize and counterattack the workers' and people's movement, to build the people's alliance, to overthrow the anti-people policy, the power of the monopolies, to break away from the eu, with people's power and economy, where international trade will develop on the basis of mutual benefit for the peoples.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i am a supporter of a system in which the euro-area member states respect the non-euro-area member states. i would also like, for the sake of reciprocity, that the reverse should also be true. i sometimes observe that recommendations made publicly are addressed to the euro area. i am convinced that if the countries making these recommendations were members of the euro area, they would not make such comments. as president of the eurogroup, i always take care to debrief, as they say in bad french, the non-eurozone countries. each meeting of ecofin begins with a report by the eurogroup president on the precise progress of the eurogroup's work. i am not sure i understood your question very well, how to say demographic and numerical: you mentioned a country with 30 or 40 million inhabitants. for good reason, i have never made a great distinction between the large and the small member states of the european union. i don't even do it when i'm in china. i always take the chinese prime minister by the shoulder, and i say to him, "do you realize that you, the chinese prime minister, and i, the luxembourg prime minister, we represent one third of humanity?" he always seems very convinced. (laughter)
mr president, we are discussing the future architecture of the eurozone and we have unfortunately not been able, for a year and a half, to deal with the current crisis and limit its expansion. as you know, decisions are taken with delay, as you said, and when we take them, we start to question them the very next day, as happened with the decisions of 21 july, thus creating the conditions for us to start turning against each other, as we are sadly reminded by some of the speeches, even in this chamber. i want to ask you a question, mr. president. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented. apart from the obvious internal difficulties, does this climate of generalized doubt with bankruptcy scenarios, with or without leaving the euro, create the right conditions for overcoming the crisis? have we sufficiently sought a solution to this problem?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, it is true that i am not proud of the general situation in which we find ourselves. i will not say that i will try to do better, because to do better requires an agreement in principle between all the actors: member states, governments and national parliaments. i can't, because i don't have the authority to resign you. i might have done so if you had given me the opportunity to answer a question on the content of the policies.
mr president, i too will refer to greece. today we had two very important developments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. real unemployment in greece is estimated to be in the range of 22% to 23% this year, levels not seen in the country since the early 1960s. the question is therefore twofold: firstly, why did the troika leave, mr president? can you at least confirm that he's returning to the country within the week? and secondly, given that the medium-term budgetary strategy plan and the memorandum of understanding had forecast an unemployment rate of less than 15% this year, 14.6% to be precise, are you concerned about the unemployment derailment? did you expect this ?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i agree with mrs goulard that the traditional community method is too flawed to allow us to have a sufficiently reactive instrument at our disposal, since the good old method is inoperative when we are in an emergency, and when the laws of speed are necessary. what i meant by saying that we should rediscover the virtues of the community method was that part of the possible scope of application - the community method you mentioned. i believe that when the community method does not have the instruments to solve an urgent problem, we must be guided by the community spirit. the community method engenders a community spirit which must be applied even where the community method does not have sufficient working instruments.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i have to say something. i am well aware of the writings of the green colleagues from austria. i am also glad that the committee of the austrian parliament has today given its approval to the efsf, so that it can be included in the list of treaties. as regards further reform steps in the overall context of the esm, i share some of your views, as you are well aware. i do not think that, given the rapid reform of the esm treaty which has just been adopted but not yet ratified, all these elements can be incorporated into the reform of the esm treaty. as much as i am in favour of a transaction tax, as much as i am fond of the other keywords you have mentioned, i do not think it will be possible to incorporate all of this into the esm treaty at one go. i hope that the austrian greens will agree, because we need the greens in austria - not just in austria - but for arithmetical, parliamentary reasons in austria in particular.
mr prime minister, as a greek, i thank you very much for the good and hard work you have done for greece and as a greek i declare here that i accept any criticism you make of my country. but i also want to speak as a member of the european parliament: mr. prime minister, we in the south started as pigs and now we've become guinea pigs. we accept that if we are to be the experimental animals to see how this economic governance will ultimately be, but i will tell you what a greek fisherman said to me in his own words: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are a very insecure people. my question, mr prime minister, is this: is there a timetable for financial governance? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the positions, policies, practices and actions of the united states of america, the european union and, in particular, certain member states of the european union, are reinforcing israeli aggression and are in total contradiction with the right and aspirations of the palestinian people, with the will of the peoples for the immediate recognition of an independent palestinian state, a member of the united nations. the european union and the governments of its member states, at this crucial stage in the struggle of the palestinian people, are judged on their actions and not on their hypocritical declarations, evasions and wishlists. they are judged by the unacceptable victim-victim equation that reinforces israeli intolerance. we call on the peoples of the region and, more generally, the peoples of the world to oppose decisively the games being played in the united nations. the european union, the united states, israel and their other imperialist allies must use their struggle to counteract the pressure exerted on the palestinian people. to demand that governments take a clear position by their position and vote in the security council and the un general assembly for the immediate, unconditional recognition of a palestinian state, a full member of the united nations, on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. we strongly support the position of the immediate withdrawal of the israeli occupation forces from all palestinian territories, the immediate cessation of settlements and the removal of settlers, the immediate recognition of an independent palestinian state, a member of the united nations.
mrs ashton, i am very grateful to you for your efforts and initiatives in the course of your duties in this matter. we welcome the arab spring, as it aims to create conditions for democratization, the restoration of respect for human rights and, in general, commonly accepted ideas. but i am afraid that the central issue that is keeping the situation in the middle east in a state of flux is still the course of relations between iran and the west, the arab-israeli conflict and islamic fundamentalism, the fundamentalism that turkish neo-ottomanism is trying to exploit. we support ideas and i believe that the palestinian demand should be judged in the un framework in good faith and with due regard for both sides. in any case, we must all understand in the west that the middle east, as a problem, must be solved.
mr commissioner, madam high representative, the palestinian authority has applied to join the un as an independent state entity. this is undoubtedly a historic moment. we know that, barring any unforeseen circumstances, this will not be approved by the security council. we also know that if this request is put to the general assembly, it is likely that there will be an observer status for palestine similar to that of the vatican state. i believe that, given the circumstances, this will be a very positive development for at least three reasons. firstly, because it is a matter of principle: finally, concrete steps must be taken towards the existence of an independent and recognized palestinian state. secondly, why does this not affect the talks to find a solution: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that's a miscalculation. third positive, because the extreme palestinian side, hamas, which opposes the effort abbas is making at the un, will suffer a political defeat: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. finally, the fact that the palestinian authority was first granted observer status and then full membership strengthens israel's security. israel has an inalienable right to security, but the palestinians have an inalienable right to an independent state of their own. both objectives can be achieved if we have a positive development at the un.
mrs ashton, you told us that you were proud that the union is an international player in the palestinian cause. what are you really proud of? the european union has not been able to take a stand on the palestinian question at the un, and it does not dare, as it does today, to condemn the expansion of settlements. the request by mahmoud abbas to the united nations puts the european union in the face of its historic responsibilities. it is the responsibility of all of us to respect the decision of the palestinians to seek membership of the organization and to support this effort as a key step and an important opportunity for the resumption of negotiations. the palestinian people have the right to peace and security, just as the state of israel does. in condemning the illegal settlement, which is a major obstacle to a peaceful settlement of the palestinian question, i believe that we must all work together to recognize a viable palestinian state on the 1967 borders with jerusalem as a common capital guaranteeing peace for all the peoples of the region.
mr president, the second eastern partnership summit in warsaw is a first-class opportunity to send a stronger political message on the european neighbourhood policy, as the conclusions of the summit will be of fundamental importance for the future implementation of the eastern partnership. the neighbourhood policy must be reviewed and the commission's text 'a new response to a changing neighbourhood' is important and is moving in the right direction. however, there are areas where the necessary steps have not been taken. there is a fragmentary way in which the neighbourhood policy has been carried out and not always on our own responsibility. of course, the commitment to human rights must remain very strong on our part and, at the same time, support must be conditional and dependent on the progress made by each country individually. the approach to civil society is also essential and a positive development. finally, the proposal to create a european democracy fund is most clearly welcome - and i am addressing both the high representative and the commissioner. but this will be delayed and at the same time there are funds and instruments which have not been properly used, which have been used only partially, and i think that until the european fund is set up, the commission's burden will fall on it, but of course with the decisive political decision of the council which i am sure will come out of the warsaw summit.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, congratulations on your election. members have raised a range of different issues and i begin with the one that our colleague mr brok raised, which is: why am i sitting here and not there? i move between the two places each time; if you build me a bench in the middle i would be very happy to sit there. i am trying to fulfil my obligations! the most important question that i think has been raised in our discussion has been: do we have the political will to put the amount of energy and effort into our partnership in the east in the way that we have spent a lot of our energy looking to our southern neighbourhood? from the commitment of honourable members and, i hope from what i have said in this debate and the number of times štefan has discussed these issues from his perspective and from our joint perspective, i believe the answer is very clearly ‘yes’. the summit that we have this week in warsaw is really important and i want to thank the polish presidency very much for the enormous amount of work that they have put in. i can bear witness to that work and i thank them very much for all the effort that they have made. it is because of the work that they have done and because of the commitment that i think you will see from štefan and myself that we see a strong representation from the european union and, i hope, a successful summit in the making. however, i do not underestimate all the challenges as we look at our six partners in our eastern neighbourhood. our relationship with each one of them brings with it some challenges that need to be addressed and concerns, all of which have been expressed in this house this evening, in terms of frozen conflict, the potential for new conflict, the need to espouse the value and principles that we must hold within the european union. however, we expect those we wish to collaborate with also to take these on, so it is important to make sure that how those concerns are dealt with is clear and transparent. this brings me to the case that has been raised most often in our discussions, which is that of yulia tymoshenko. i want to be clear that the issue that we have raised is this apparently selective use of criminal judicial measures, and to say that the criticisms come not only from us but from many others, from independent experts. i think it is very important they be taken very seriously. this is the issue that i have raised with them, the issue that štefan has raised with them. when we see judicial process we wish to see due process. we wish to see people dealt with fairly and properly, within the way in which we operate as a european union. having once been a justice minister i know how important this is as part of that journey in the development of the european union and how important it is that we stand absolutely by those principles. we are going to continue with our discussions on the deep and comprehensive free trade area and the association agreement because we believe that an association agreement provides stronger guarantees on some of the issues with ukraine that we think are so important. as members have pointed out, it goes without saying that any agreement has to be ratified, that national parliaments and the european parliament will want to make sure that they are comfortable with the spirit in which this is done. specifically, too, members raised the issue of the civil society facility. we have already identified eur 22 million for this facility. its purpose is to focus on the empowerment of civil society and increase public accountability, which is a really important issue. coming back to my point about transparency and openness, the value of the endowment for democracy proposal is to enable us to do things that we cannot already do. it is not to duplicate what the instruments that we have do, but to look at some of the questions that have been raised in our discussions with our partners across the east and the south. how do we support the processes more effectively? how do we support young people? how do we support the growth of the political process? that will enable us, we hope, to work in a slightly more arms-length way, which can be of great value to those who wish to get support and help but do not meet the criteria that we quite rightly have for our instruments. i want to end by focusing again on what i think the deliverables will be at this summit. first of all, the clear time frame for the signing of the ukraine association agreement and the free trade agreement, and for the start of those negotiations with moldova and georgia. if we are able to move forward on these, that would be important. mobility is a big issue for many countries, and the importance of looking at what we can deliver on mobility over the coming months will also be a big part of this. there is also the question of some cooperation between different sectors, particularly energy and transport, and of course political cooperation and dialogue. if we are able to use this opportunity to bring together the leadership with the european union and with our eastern partners, and develop a stronger relationship, being clear about the commitments that we expect as well as the commitments that we give, with ‘more for more’ and mutual accountability being the watchwords of how we operate, i think it will have been an enormous success and it will give new energy to our work with our eastern partners. as i began, may i thank the polish presidency especially, and the hungarian presidency for the groundwork that they put in. i look forward very much to what i am sure will be a successful presidency event in warsaw.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for two minutes) written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
this meeting is resumed.
the next item is the statement by the vice-chair of the committee of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on gender orientation and gender identity to the united nations human rights council
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president i can be brief and only because i want to make one remark which is that, in answer to ms lunacek’s questions and to the comments that have been made, i will support anything anywhere that helps to remove discrimination against people whose human rights are being violated because of who they are. i think, as mr cashman put it, to be yourself is core and fundamental to the values that i hold and upon which i stand. one of the greatest privileges of my life was when i was awarded the stonewall politician of the year award for the work that i have done on equality. it sits in my home as a reminder of sometimes being able to achieve something on behalf of people. i stand fairly and squarely in support of everything that we can do to prevent people’s rights being violated in all circumstances and, in this case particularly, those people that we have been discussing this evening.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) (see minutes). the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the tensions between turkey and the republic of cyprus.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, the honourable members will have noticed that i have moved. that is because of the way we wish to conduct this discussion. i want to begin by saying that one thing that is very obvious to me is that we are seeing a much more proactive turkey in terms of its foreign policy. if we were looking at some of the issues regarding the position of turkey in the arab world, there is much we could spend time discussing. i am particularly, of course, talking about the issues in regard to the flotilla dispute with israel – a situation that is a real source of friction and which spills over into other aspects of foreign policy and relations. turkey is both a candidate country and a nato member. it is, of course, in our interests to try and seek to calm tension and, from my perspective, to bind turkey into the delivery of our foreign policy objectives. i spent time talking with foreign minister davutoğlu on a whole range of issues, but it will surprise no one in this house that the issue that he and i spoke about when we met bilaterally at the united nations was the issue that is before us this evening. i of course worked closely with the foreign minister of cyprus, who is new to our deliberations on the foreign affairs council, but follows in the footsteps of her predecessor. we are well aware that the current tensions over the drilling issue concern us because they also involve a candidate country. my services have been working very closely with štefan füle, and continue to do so. because of the nature of this debate, i am now going to hand over to štefan to continue from this side of the house.
member of the commission. − madam president, as soon as tensions appeared over this issue we followed developments very closely and with increasing concern. the vice-president/high representative and i made it very clear right from the start that threats are not an option when it comes to solving problems between neighbours. disputes need to be settled by peaceful means. this is a guiding principle in international relations and in the european union, and baroness ashton has made that point a couple of times during this afternoon’s debates. we regret and reject any statement or action that runs counter to this approach. moreover, as the council has stressed on several occasions, our member states have the sovereign right to conclude bilateral agreements with third countries in accordance with the european union acquis and international law, including the united nations conventions on the law of the sea. let me recall that, under international law, the european union and its member states only recognise the republic of cyprus on that island. the european union has also repeatedly underlined the importance of progress in the normalisation of relations between turkey and all european union member states, including the republic of cyprus. i firmly believe that turkey and the european union have much more to gain through integration and dialogue than through tensions, especially at a time where the stakes in the region following the arab spring are so high. turkey and the european union need to support jointly the aspirations of the people on the southern flank of the mediterranean for democracy, human rights, stability and prosperity. the european union is based on number of core principles and values including good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes, resorting if necessary to international arbitration. we are, and remain, committed to this approach, which is the best guarantee for peace and stability. we assure you that both the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton and i made all these points very clearly in our recent contacts with all our interlocutors. at the beginning of july, the united nations secretary-general met the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot leaders in geneva. they decided to enter into an intensive period of negotiations towards a comprehensive settlement. since then, we have all been looking forward to a crucial phase of settlement talks in the autumn and the resolution of an issue that would be to the benefit of all cypriot citizens, the european union, turkey and the entire region. this phase is ongoing and i understand the leaders are intensively discussing the substance of several core pending issues. this is a chance not to be missed under any circumstances. i therefore urge all parties now to focus all energy, efforts and minds on the comprehensive settlement. during this crucial ongoing phase it is essential that all parties concerned exercise restraint and do their utmost to ensure a positive climate that will facilitate successful completion of the process. let us give the settlement talks the best chance to succeed. i trust that all european union institutions, including the european parliament, will send the same messages and encouragement towards this end to all the parties concerned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the use of threats, including military threats, is a longstanding feature of turkish foreign policy. turkey is easily drawn to them when things are unfolding in a way that does not coincide with its geostrategic ambitions, regardless of whether the developments are entirely legal under international law and international practice. this is confirmed by the escalation of reactions and threats by ankara in the exercise of the legitimate sovereign right of the republic of cyprus to investigate in its exclusive economic zone, in accordance with the law of the sea. it is clear that the exploitation of major resources by the republic of cyprus strengthens the european union's energy security and diversification policy. moreover, the prospect of benefits for greek cypriots and turkish cypriots is a strong incentive, not a counter-incentive, for progress and a solution to the cyprus problem and, of course, the republic of cyprus cannot pay for the illegal occupation of part of its territory by suspending the exercise of its rights. mrs ashton, commissioner, i am afraid that turkey is seeking a controlled tension in the region in order, among other things, to win the role of regional power and observer that it has steadfastly claimed in the eastern mediterranean. but the line between controlled and uncontrolled tension is extremely thin. turkey is literally playing with fire. [speaker continues in english] turkey is more a security consumer than a security provider in the eastern mediterranean. the european union must send a clear message of condemnation and deterrence of turkish threats and solidarity with our partner, the republic of cyprus. it is primarily a question of credibility and dignity for the union itself.
on behalf of the efd group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are here to hear that we should advise restraint on both sides. why both sides? the republic of cyprus, very legally and in accordance with international law, is mining where its economic zone is and mr charim, if i understand correctly, said that they should stop. is that possible ? they own this economic place, why not dig it? are we equating the victim to the perpetrator here? it is an unfair treatment of the republic of cyprus that is being done. at this moment, to say that both sides must show restraint means that all of us here are ignoring international law and ignoring the sovereign and national rights and contractual obligations that the european union has towards cyprus. i think that this is unacceptable and we must take a bold stand, a stand which is just and in accordance with international law. the second point i want to make is this: bismarck said that the only constant in foreign policy is geography. mrs ashton, do you have geographical boundaries of the european union's foreign policy competences? the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. geographically, what is europe, do we know it? and to know how to defend it, and i will go one step further: when these gas reserves are found in cyprus who is going to benefit from it? the european market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, madam high representative, mr commissioner, at a time when the union, under the pressure of the crisis, is discussing and moving towards ever closer fiscal and economic integration, the undersea wealth in economic zones, which is exploited by individual member states in accordance with international law, is a matter for us all, which concerns both our economic future and the union's energy security. injustice cannot create rights. the fact that turkey has occupying troops in the northern part of cyprus does not imply that it has acquired rights in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus in an unrelated, indeed, to the same geographical area. and this is especially true when we all know that the republic of cyprus has faithfully complied with all the provisions of international law and when we also know that it will take a long time, even decades, for the benefits of the current investigations to reach the citizens of the whole of cyprus, time which is more than enough to find a solution to the problem of cyprus - a solution which it is useful to come sooner - and to have a fair division so that all citizens of cyprus, regardless of their national origin, benefit from these investigations. this is the 21st century. turkey is wrong to think that gunboat diplomacy can be used against a member state of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we were to follow the logic that the republic of cyprus has diminished sovereign rights during the negotiations, then it would be as if we were taking away those sovereign rights from the republic of cyprus. it is wrong to say this, it is wrong to claim this, but the solution must be elsewhere and the solution is to apply international law with reason, with sanity, and to seek in this context the solution of the cyprus problem.
mr watson, i listened carefully to what you said. i naturally disagree with most of it, but i'd like to ask you a question: are there any turkish threats that violate international law in this particular case? yes or no, and if so, what should the european union do?
madam president, the arab spring has changed the geostrategic balance in the eastern mediterranean creating liquidity and instability. we have every reason as the european union to preserve stability and avoid escalating tensions in this rapidly changing region. unfortunately, turkey, a candidate country for membership of the european union, has chosen a slippery path by questioning the sovereign rights of member states, rights based on international law, and by making an onslaught of threats to use military force, by leaving its military ships in international waters and by openly hostile actions. the traditional balances in the region seem to be upset and the course of action taken by mr erdogan, essentially ignoring europe, is causing great concern throughout the european continent and in the united states. it is clear that anyone who invests in the tension for domestic consumption and to become a regional leader is playing a very dangerous game. turkey's actions and statements are endangering peace and stability in the region. we call on turkey to assume its responsibilities with integrity at this particularly critical time.
member of the commission. − madam president, to start with, i can assure you of my understanding for your emotion and your concern, although some of the statements have rather crossed the line. let me assure you that the last time i checked the news, no one had been attacked. i think we can clearly say that we all agree that increased tensions in the eastern mediterranean are in nobody’s interest. we can also agree that we stand by one of our member states when its rights are called into question. let me make a remark here, because there was a question of the extent to which the commission considered this to be a volatile issue. what is volatile is the disagreement on the delimitation of borders: exclusive economic zone. what is not volatile, and never will be, is an approach based on threats, which violates the united nations charter. but we all also acknowledge that the most important issues right now are the cyprus settlement talks. the united nations and the secretary-general, but in particular the leaders of the two communities, have invested enormous effort in making them succeed, and it is our responsibility and duty to support these efforts in any way we can. a united cyprus would bring peace, stability and security within the european union, in our close neighbourhood and in one of the most troubled regions in the world. it would also have a positive effect on relations between the european union and turkey. i am well aware that the european union and turkey are in a delicate phase in their relations; the pace of the accession process is disappointing, with no chapter opened since june 2010. the european union is expecting more and faster reforms in turkey to address urgent issues under fundamental rights and freedoms. turkey too is frustrated by what it perceives as a lack of commitment from the european union to negotiations. i believe the fresh tensions around the whole drilling issue partly result from this frustration. let me make a couple of remarks here in reaction to a very important debate and adding to a number of the statements i made at the beginning and also during the question time we had earlier today in this house. i have no problem with assertive foreign policy – if that policy is responsible. i have a huge problem with irresponsible policy. threatening a member state, talking about the role of the navy, is irresponsible and needs to be condemned. it is being condemned, and it will be condemned. another point: the issue has never been doubts over the rights of one of us. no one has indicated that there could be a problem. the only point was timing. most leaders made a personal commitment to the secretary-general of the united nations that they will not be distracted by anything and that all their efforts will be focused on finding a comprehensive settlement, in such a way that the settlement is found before cyprus assumes the presidency of the european council. i agree with those who made the point that what is really of the utmost importance is to send, at this point in time, the clear message that, as far as the benefits of this hydrocarbon project are concerned, they belong to all citizens of cyprus, in both communities. i wish had an answer to the question of what our contingency plan is if the united nations decides to withdraw. i do not have one, and i am not aware of anyone having a plan b. this is one more reason why we all need to support the united nations and the secretary-general and special representatives. president barroso recently sent a special envoy who at this point in time, with the talks being intensified, is fully committed to the talks and is available to the special representative alexander downer, on a 24/7 basis. let me also address the issue of the statement that turkey is going to boycott the cyprus presidency of the european council. i was confronted with this statement when i visited turkey soon after the elections, a couple of hours after the new government had been formed. my immediate reaction was that, instead of sending this strange ultimatum, all our efforts needed to be focused on finding a comprehensive settlement before that time. this is exactly the angle which, i understand, has been used by the foreign minister, ahmet davutoğlu, speculating on what is going to happen if no settlement is reached on the cyprus issue. i shall not continue his speculation on what is going to happen. i think we all need to use the time between now and the beginning of next year – not the end of june – to move the settlement talks forward. i disagree, with respect, with those who try to say that we have been talking for thirty years. there have been a number of phases and a number of efforts. we do not have anything better than the current plan, with which we are moving forward and making progress. the secretary-general of the united nations made this clear during the last meeting with both leaders. there is commitment on the part of these two leaders; there is a kind of road map that they have both committed to. so expectations are high. i was talking about frustration; that frustration is unfortunate and largely unnecessary. what we need now is constructive engagement; we do not see any other option. turkey and the european union need each other more than ever in addressing jointly the challenges of the day. they are already closely linked by trade, investments, 50 years of association and now, accession negotiations. there are real benefits to working closely together with turkey in our common neighbouring countries. most importantly, however, the european union accession process with turkey has proved a powerful instrument to force reforms in this country. turkey today is a more democratic country than it was ten years ago thanks to the european union accession perspective. even though reforms should be accelerated and broadened, they nevertheless continue, as demonstrated over the summer by significant steps such as the return of confiscated property to the non-muslim religious communities or strengthening of civilian control of the military. and yes, i am aware of the increasingly troubling issue of press freedom. i am concerned about the current legislation: particularly the anti-terrorist law, which has an ambiguity which is unfortunately being used to put a huge number of journalists in unnecessary detention. but my approach is that we need to open chapters and engage with turkey, rather than closing chapters. let me remind this house that, as far as the accession process is concerned, we have only three chapters to open. three chapters are available to us to open. their nature and substance makes them rather difficult, and if you looked at the accession process of some other countries, you would see that those chapters which are available for the eu-turkey relationship are being addressed only at a late stage of the accession process. the truth is that part of these chapters are being frozen on the basis of the commission recommendation – some of you mentioned the ankara additional protocol, the ankara agreement. but there are others which are being blocked unilaterally by member states, thus limiting the area of engagement. i do not want to speculate whether, if we open the chapter on energy, we will be facing a similar situation to today’s. i will address a different issue. if we open chapter 23, on fundamental rights and the judiciary, it will give us an opportunity to keep abreast of the turkish reforms in the most important area – the rule of law. it is a pity that this chapter is not available for the accession negotiations. turkey and the european union need to develop a renewed positive agenda, building on the achievements of the accession process and our joint interest, and give a new momentum to our relations. this supposes renewed efforts in a number of key areas, including support for political reforms in turkey, alignment with our acquis, addressing important trade issues, closer cooperation on visas and migration and a closer dialogue on foreign policy. honourable members, i believe this is the only way forward, and i look forward to discussing these matters further with you in the coming months starting in october, once the commission has adopted its enlargement package.
the debate is closed. the meeting will resume tomorrow at 9. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
mr president, i would like to thank president barroso for his inspiring community speech. we in the south started as pigs and are now in a period of being guinea pigs. we do not object to that. if we have to be the guinea pigs for testing and finding out the methodology and the process of having a real coherence and a real unity within the european union, we accept that, but how long will this experiment last? as a greek, i accept all the criticism and admit that we have made mistakes and are still making mistakes, but i will do so within my own parliament and my country. as a european, the question is: how long will the experiment last? if we are to be the catalyst for having a real union and for having a structural, institutional coherence we accept it. it is worth it.
mr president, today we must consider whether the union is in a better position than it was last year. unfortunately, the answer is no. europe, both in the eyes of european citizens and on the international stage, looks weaker and more vulnerable in the face of the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected and that the schengen acquis is respected. the year has once again shown the union's inability to speak with one voice on common foreign policy. mr president, greece is committed to fulfilling its obligations in full, but if the greek people are to continue on the difficult path of sacrifice, europe's message must be as clear and unambiguous as yours today.
mr barroso, i was very impressed by your faith in the future of europe. if anything, i wish to congratulate you on your efforts. i know the problems you're facing. you're not alone, but you're trying. and that's where i stop. but i fear that we have started monetary union in the wrong way. how can there be a single currency with 17 different governments, 17 different decision-making centres, 17 different bond-buying centres and different policies? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without european economic union, i fear, we shall have tried in vain. and i want to tell you something else: as a lawyer, i know that public companies capitalize on their surpluses. we have recorded, mr president, appreciation against the dollar. please capitalize on them.
in writing. i voted against this report because it is essentially about funding mechanisms which systematically violate human rights. once again, hypocritically, we are supposed to be increasing the funding needed to deal with the problems of refugees, migrants and local communities, but in reality, we are strengthening military and repressive mechanisms, we are strengthening unacceptable charter flights that take migrants and refugees and send them back to war-torn areas with miserable living conditions. it is necessary to put an end to hypocrisy and self-deception. with fences, armies and trenches, not only do we not have democratic member states and the eu, not only do we violate international agreements and human rights, but we do not solve the problem. funding must aim at a decent and equal life for all through the protection of rights and the strengthening of social cohesion. the funding must be geared to genuine aid to developing countries and must be combined with the responsibilities and international role of a peaceful and democratic eu foreign policy, because the more hotbeds of war, totalitarianism and poverty are created in the world, the more refugees and migrants will leave their homes.
in writing. i voted against the report and the economic governance package as a whole because the package is the wrong response to the crisis. the neoliberal interpretation that the crisis in the european union is caused by excessive public debts and the indiscipline in the stability pact leads to the continuation of the same anti-social, anti-development policies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european social area, which would be a new instrument for the development of the social area. the absolute control of budgetary policies by the commission and the economic and political sanctions are maximising the democratic deficit in the european union. the implementation of the package will deepen the recession, increase unemployment and widen social and regional disparities.
in writing. the agreement of the political representatives of capital on the so-called "economic governance package" voted today by the political forces of capital signals the determination of the monopolies to intensify the attack on the working class and popular strata throughout the eu. the political staff of capital has once again played the elaborate theatre of the so-called eu council of bourgeois governments' disagreements with the commission and the european parliament to reach a preconceived reactionary hell-deal for the working class. it institutes the drastic reduction of wages, pensions, social benefits and workers' rights in the name of 'financial stability' and 'competitiveness', that is, the safeguarding of monopoly profitability. it transforms into eu law the brutal blackmailing of peoples into accepting the slaughter of their rights, providing for and imposing automatic sanctions on the member states - the working class and the popular strata - when they do not effectively serve the 'competitiveness' of the monopolies. the european union's legislation on so-called 'enhanced economic governance', together with the 'european semester' (preventive control of member states' budgets), the anti-people 'competitiveness pact' and the european support mechanism 'controlled bankruptcy', constitute an iron mechanism against the working class and popular strata of all member states.
in writing. the european commission and the world health organisation have repeatedly received complaints of human rights violations and widespread discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, both in the european union and in third countries. it is clear that, despite the un's actions, there are significant problems and that states must commit to more effective anti-discrimination policies through legislation that ensures the protection of diversity, through cooperation among themselves and through the exchange of good practices with third countries. in any event, attention should be paid both to the sources of funding for promoting such partnerships and to the definitions and references preferred in particular on the issue of sexual orientation and gender identity. i therefore rejected amendments which did not meet these conditions, but voted in favour of the report as a whole.
madam president, the argument in favour of spontaneity is over. the need to continue the food programme for the most deprived, especially in the current unfavourable social situation, is urgent. the proposed drastic reduction of resources for 2012 cannot therefore be accepted. we call for a new legal framework to be put in place immediately to make full use of the resources available under the current financial period and for the programme to continue beyond 2013. in addition to the need to source agricultural products from public storage and from the market, the choice of products to be distributed should not be limited to those for which intervention is available, but should be open to a wider choice in each member state on the basis of actual needs. the commission proposes, commissioner, that funding be introduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, to those who are calling for the renationalization of food programmes as a matter of social policy in each member state, i would reply that, in addition to its social dimension, the programme contributes to the stabilization of agricultural markets and farm incomes in the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the scheme, after its 2010 amendment, had been extended to the foodstuffs it covered, including fruit, vegetables and cooking oil. there was a reason for that. the reason was to improve the nutritional balance of the programme. and rightly so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. once the eu has stopped dumping on international markets, such a programme operation would amount to dumping food on the poor of the eu.
mr president, rio+20 is an opportunity to set the planet on a sustainable path, to go into the mechanics of the details and how we are going to do it. we speak a lot in this parliament, but the main task is to vote tomorrow on the resolution. i would like to mention some points about some split votes and separate votes that have been proposed by the epp. i know most of my colleagues in the committee on the environment from the epp and i wonder how the epp can ask for the deletion of the need to integrate biodiversity into the national accounts. this is one of the basic reasons for us going to rio+20. how can you ask to delete our concern about the brazilian government’s new forest code? it is very well known that this will not allow the brazilian government to meet its obligations on deforestation. how can you delete the concerns about offshore oil exploration in environmentally fragile areas, or be against access to adequate and healthy food as a basic human right, or oppose the measures against speculation on the price of basic food that leads to food crises around the world? i am sure that this was a mistake and i hope you will fix that.
commissioner, we support your efforts and you have no doubt about that. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget. i do remember, however, and it was mentioned earlier by my colleagues, that some time ago - three or four plenary sessions ago if i remember correctly - we were discussing the issue of resettling refugees and we noted that while when we first considered and negotiated it we did not have the emergency conditions in our 'neighbourhood', we nevertheless concluded that this tool is now necessary. today, a few months after that debate, we are coming back to you and you yourself are telling us - and we all agree - that the refugee resettlement programme has not been completed and has not been implemented and that we are only satisfied with the efforts made by each member state individually. so, in addition to all of us agreeing that we support your effort, i think we also agree that europe today is called upon to manage a caravan of refugees at a moment, a momentum that is obviously negative for it because we don't have all the tools at our disposal to adequately manage this crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the numbers for resettlement - as you have told us - are very low in relation to the needs that exist and, according to unhcr, only 14% of cases have progressed in terms of resettlement needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at this crucial moment, a europe of equal burden-sharing, of solidarity, must take dynamic decisions if we are to have, above all, a good conscience and be proud of the europe of values that we all stand for.
mr president, the global fund is now five years old and every child at five has formed his character. the fund has thus become a key player. however, we can intervene and make improvements. the one improvement that i think absolutely needs to be made is that the baby called the globalisation fund should be able to walk faster, to serve the purposes for which it was set up faster. this is extremely important. i also argue that the fund, which was to run until 31 december 2011, should be extended until 2013. i think that this fund is a very important instrument, especially in times of crisis. and because i have heard that there is interest from colleagues in the case of greece, i have here a publication - one of many - which says that the commission has proposed to grant greece aid of eur 2.9 million to support the redundancies of the aldi company. i would like to conclude by asking a question which i am afraid cannot be answered in this chamber today: where is the council? does he not consider this conversation important? does he not think that the globalisation fund is worth his attention or is the council not interested in the crisis?
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank members for their contributions to this debate. we can clearly conclude that a strong majority in parliament supports the commission proposal to extend the crisis part of the fund until 2013. i would like to start by answering the specific question raised by mr gallagher. the commission is finalising its work on this specific case and it is scheduled to be discussed in the college of commissioners on 5 october. there is a genuine belief that the globalisation adjustment fund has a role to play in the future as a rapid crisis intervention instrument for showing solidarity with the most vulnerable workers in society. to add value, the fund’s support should encourage measures to correct skill mismatches in difficult labour market situations. special attention will need to be paid to the social responsibility of large companies, particularly as regards collective dismissals. many of you raised this issue during the debate, and the commission will of course take your contributions into account. some of you raised some doubts about the inclusion of farmers in the future globalisation adjustment fund. the commission considers that farmers are also exposed to the risks of globalisation, particularly where forthcoming trade agreements are concerned. we consider that there is a strong necessity to include farmers in the scope of the globalisation adjustment fund. in the proposal on the multiannual financial framework you can see that we proposed a limit of up to eur 2.5 billion to be used for farmers, also trying to ensure that at least part of the globalisation adjustment fund goes to workers in other sectors. both the member states and the european institutions involved in the decision-making process should do their utmost to speed up delivery of support from the fund. on this point, we also have some ideas on which we are currently finalising our work. for example, we are considering the introduction of electronic application forms and the standardisation of questions in order to reduce the time needed to apply for funding. we are also looking at other initiatives which could streamline the process. we fully agree that we have to streamline the process and to make the procedures much faster. i would like to thank ms berès for her report once again. it will provide a valuable contribution to the commission’s work on the future of the globalisation adjustment fund.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i 'm not . the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
the following is an oral question to the commission on the guidelines on state aid to energy-intensive industries by mario pirillo, rosario crocetta, gianni pittella, guido milana, rita borsellino, pier antonio panzeri, andrea cozzolino, sergio gaetano cofferati, salvatore caronna, patrizia toia, silvia costa, david-maria sassoli, gianluca susta, roberto gualtieri, leonardo domenici, francesco de angelis, oreste rossi, ioan enciu, paolo bartolozzi, giommaria uggias, amalia sartori, aldo patrici, alfredo antoniozzi, giancarlo scottà, salvini, clemente mastella, barbara matera, vincenzo gardini, iovine, gabriele canini, antonio antonio, cristiana muscella, pavel antonio, joaquin castro, paolo pozzo, paolo pozzo, giovanni salato, giovanni giovanni salato, carlo fontana, giovanni salato, giovanni giovanni salato, giovanni paolo, giovanni paolo iovannini, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, and others, which was published in the official journal of the european communities on 14 february 2011 and was published in the
member of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would again like to thank mr pirillo for his question. the commission is certainly not washing its hands of this very important subject. the impact assessment on state aid guidelines concerning energy-intensive industries is ongoing. this impact assessment includes the steel industry as well as other industries which could be exposed to this problem. we cannot reach a firm conclusion on the specific sectors that will be the subject of these guidelines until the impact assessment is finished. as far as the timing is concerned, the commission’s intention is to have the new guidelines adopted by the end of the year, after a public consultation. its services, namely the directorate general for competition, launched a public consultation via a questionnaire on the controversial issues of sectoral eligibility and calculation of the aid level. we received more than 140 submissions from member states, industry associations and environmental ngos. the services are currently analysing the replies, after which the commission will present draft state aid guidelines. member states and stakeholders will be consulted another time, before their adoption by the commission, and at the same time, parliament will also be informed. as you can see, the process is fully transparent. we are working on the guidelines and we will come forward with those guidelines by the end of the year.
the debate is closed.
the next point is the commission's statement on security scanners.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. i do not see the point in this unprecedented rush to adopt body scanners at a time when their effectiveness is being questioned and, at the same time, the time required to check passengers is bound to increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of the airlines is not guaranteed. on the health front, it is encouraging that the commission has asked for the opinion of the scientific committee on emerging health risks. it is something we have been proposing since last march. however, it is regrettable that this opinion concerns only one type of scanner when it should have been part of a more thorough study of the safety and the feasibility of scanners. finally, on the subject of fundamental rights, if the commission's decision to give passengers the right to opt out of screening is translated into mandatory physical checks, as has happened in the united states, then i fear that this provision will prove even more problematic than the operation of the scanners themselves. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
thank you for asking. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the use of the european parliament's powers in the field of justice and home affairs. the question of the feasibility and efficiency of the operation of the scanners has also not been adequately answered, which i consider to be a major issue because if we are not sure that the efficiency of the scanners will be satisfactory then why are we going through this whole process? i think that the decision to include body scanners in airport security is too premature, too hasty: there are too many issues that remain unresolved.
mr president, on the occasion of the adoption of the written declaration on the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, provided for in the lisbon treaty, i would like to express my warm thanks to my colleagues hélène flautre, marion harkin and vittorio prodi, who co-signed this declaration, and to all my colleagues who supported it. it is a happy coincidence that this initiative, which has a majority in parliament, coincides with the european year of volunteering. it is also important that it coincides with the communication from the european commission and commissioner georgieva, because the first policy paper devoted exclusively to volunteering has been tabled. at a very difficult time for europe's resonance, the creation of such a volunteer corps speaks to the minds and hearts of european citizens and improves the image of the european union. i also want to thank my colleagues who believed in the idea and worked hard on this statement.
in writing. the kke votes against the joint resolution on the situation in palestine, as an unacceptable provocation against the palestinian people. in view of the latest developments at the un and the content of the european parliament's joint resolution on palestine, we consider that positions and practices are being recorded which do not contribute to the recognition of an independent, sovereign palestinian state as a un member. the joint resolution not only fails to move towards a just solution to the palestinian problem, but creates additional problems, because it supports the positions of the aggressor, israel, at the expense of the victim, the palestinian people. in these circumstances, the struggle of the peoples must be intensified to counter the pressure exerted on the palestinian people by the united states, the european union, israel and its other allies. to demand that governments take a clear position with their stance and vote in the security council and the un general assembly for the immediate, unconditional recognition of an independent, sovereign, viable palestinian state, full member of the un, on the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. we strongly support the position for the immediate withdrawal of israeli occupation forces from all palestinian territories, the immediate cessation of settlements and the removal of settlers, the immediate recognition of an independent palestinian state as a member of the un.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20). the conference, which will focus on 'the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication' and on 'the institutional framework for sustainable development', is expected to be more effective and ambitious than the previous conferences (rio, 1992 and johannesburg 2002). developed nations have a moral duty not to rest easy when 1.4 billion people still live in extreme poverty and when one sixth of the world's population is undernourished. climate change is a serious threat to the fight against poverty and to the living standards of future generations. the european parliament urges both the commission and the council to ensure that the new conference does not end with mere declarations of goodwill but with concrete actions, objectives and measurable results.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the future of the cor, which i voted in favour of, proposes ways of making the fund flexible and of providing it with stable funding to meet its growing needs. the cor was designed as a tool for direct intervention in the event of mass redundancies in order to prevent long-term unemployment when difficult labour market conditions prevail. therefore, its existence and strengthening in times of global economic instability is significant and of particular interest to greece. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the egf to cover the financing of the following projects: the procedures for activating the fund must be simplified and the resources of the fund must be safeguarded for the coming years so that it can respond to unforeseen developments, primarily by supporting efforts to reintegrate those who have lost their jobs rapidly into the labour market.
mr president, i would like to ask mr lambsdorff when he speaks of solidarity, does he mean that the workers should help, that the states should help, so that the banks can be 'rescued' and then the banks can come back with more power to bring them to their knees and implement these policies which are currently being implemented in greece and which have led to the impoverishment of the workers and the entire people of my country?
mr president, i have the impression that this debate, this so-called briefing of the european parliament by the council and the commission, is of no value. the european council has been postponed to 23 october, with the possibility of being postponed again. the decisions of the previous july council, which also took place after some postponements, while appearing as the salvation, as the solution, were the next day considered obsolete and have not been implemented. we all know that the institutional functioning of the european union has been replaced by informal meetings between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy, who are now once again discussing the future of europe by looking at their bank balance sheets, sacrificing any sense of social solidarity, while at the same time the people are suffering - in greece and elsewhere - from austerity programmes. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe.
mr president, commissioner, today we have heard, after 18 months of crisis, the most concrete, practical and coherent proposal from the commission. the road, which had a timetable and actions, was indeed clear. i'm focusing on the labeling of mr. verhofstadt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. will there be any areas to be revised? will there be an increase in the 'tax' on greece, as mr houdis has suggested?
the next european council meeting is taking place in the context of a deepening of the capitalist crisis and the intensification of monopoly competition. the european union and the bourgeois governments are united in only one thing: in your strategy of imposing everywhere, in all the member states, a storm of new anti-working-class measures, the abolition of collective agreements, the sharp reduction of wages and pensions, the plundering of the popular income, the "squeezing" of every worker's conquest and right to secure and increase the profits of the monopolies. the process of revising the agreement of 21 july, the attempts to reach a new and fragile and unstable compromise, are also signaling new, even more tragic, woes for the peoples. the controlled bankruptcy of greece that the european union and the international monetary fund are working on together with the pasok government and the other bourgeois governments of the member states, by whatever name you call them, "washing", debt restructuring, selective bankruptcy, has been pre-scripted for two years. this is how the capitalist crisis ends. what is of great importance is that the uncontrolled bankruptcy of the greek people is on the march and is deepening. the people of portugal and ireland are in the forefront of the bankruptcy, followed by the people of the other european union states. the general strike organized by the ordinary labour movement on october 19 in the private and public sectors in greece is taking on a general political character against the whole of the european union's anti-working class policy. it is the beginning of a new class and workers' counter-attack, of an escalation of the struggle to change the balance of power, to prevent anti-worker measures and to overturn the overall anti-people policy of the european union. the european union must be a democratic union, a democratic union of the people, a democratic union of the people, a democratic union of the people.
mr president, in a few days' time we shall have another european council which will be historic, as many of the previous european councils have been, and certainly the european council of 21 july. and i would remind you that we said that the decisions taken at that time were a comprehensive, coherent and realistic response both to the greek problem and to the overall management of the debt crisis. three months later, and while the crisis has widened and has acquired, as the president of the commission said, systemic characteristics, these decisions are still pending, or even openly contested by some. so it's obvious that we're doing something wrong, either in the content of the decisions we make or the methodology we use. the president of the commission said today that we urgently need a comprehensive and credible solution and outlined the main points of the roadmap that the european commission will present to the european council on 23 october. the question is, commissioner, can we today guarantee that these decisions will not suffer the fate of the previous ones and will be implemented in a timely and consistent manner? and, most importantly, can we avoid creating the impression that we are prioritizing, giving priority, to rescuing the banks, the financial system, over rescuing states and citizens?
mr president, the president of the commission has noted all the problems that have arisen and has indicated the methods by which we must solve them. he stressed the community working method and interdependence, but interdependence also means shared responsibility and it is clear that the situation in relation to the economic crisis is of course the responsibility of the member states and their policies, but there are also serious responsibilities of the commission. the crisis we are facing is a long-acting crisis. it's not something that's gonna go away anytime soon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have seen the ten points that jean-claude junker has made. it is true that the commission has been very active in the field of the internal market, but it is also true that the commission has been very active in the field of the internal market, and that the commission has been very active in the field of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, united europe is going through one of the most difficult periods in its history. the daily developments in the economic and financial spheres are extremely unpleasant. it seems that the same unpleasant developments are taking place in the area of the free movement of european citizens. the ray of hope that has been seen recently for the european vision, for our common vision, comes from bulgaria and romania, two countries that have worked hard, have changed a lot in their structures and functioning and are now ready - all the evaluations and all the reports show this - to enter the schengen area. their entry will show us all that the vision remains alive and will remind all those who are watching us that europe has not only a common currency but also common borders. the european union, at this crucial moment when, for many reasons, the eyes of the world are on us, is - unfortunately - sending the wrong message. it is a sign that, within the european family, member states which wish to be further integrated into all areas of european integration are treated - i repeat this unfortunately - with suspicion, with distrust by other member states of the same family. in conclusion, i want to be clear: friends seem to be in trouble. bulgaria and romania are our friends, they are our partners, they have fulfilled their obligations to the letter and they deserve - i repeat - to be in the schengen area today, immediately.
mr president, the arab spring, despite its hopeful message, has killed thousands. in yemen, despite the announcement of the resignation of president saleh, the unrest continues. we have violent clashes every day, most recently with women victims who were protesting in honour of nobel peace prize winner, tawakul karman. at the same time, military courts in bahrain are even prosecuting doctors and nurses who did their duty during the unrest. parliament operates without opposition representation, and the reforms being promoted by the government are aimed solely at reducing the political power of the shia. as for syria, since the beginning of march we have, according to un figures, over 3,000 dead. the international community has failed to send that message that will make assad back down. the european union's recognition of the syrian national transitional council is, however, a step in the right direction. the union is once again called upon to support the democratization efforts of the countries and to ensure that the changes are implemented smoothly. we must send a strong message to pave the way for the long-term stability and development of these countries and the wider region as a whole.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i will be brief because so many of the contributions either echoed my original words or reflected the underlying sentiments in my original statement. the critical thing for ukraine now is to take seriously the need to move on what we have been saying about the need for a fair, transparent and independent legal process. that, i would argue, is the core of this debate. commentators among ukraine’s partners and in independent bodies have made clear that this process did not live up to international standards. that is the basis upon which we need to move forward, and the ukrainians need to move forward. i hope that we will see a swift appeals process that will enable that to be the basis upon which decisions are made by the courts. the honourable members have made very eloquent statements. i will just echo one, which is that we know that it is in the interests of the people of ukraine to move forward with an association agreement with us and to take forward the values which we hold dear and which the members of the ukrainian government claim to wish to see as well. i believe that they should reflect carefully on the very eloquent words of this parliament tonight, and i look forward to their reacting positively to your comments and to mine. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in strasbourg at the second part-session in october. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is one-minute speeches.
madam president, palestinian political prisoners have been on hunger strike for two weeks protesting against the inhumane conditions of detention. yesterday, another 2,000 fighters were added. the protest comes after provocative statements by israeli prime minister netanyahu, who considers the conditions of their detention, as he said, too generous. the hunger strikers are demanding access to health care, especially for the sick and injured prisoners. they denounce the collective punishments which include the prohibition of family visits, humiliating physical examinations, inhuman isolation which in some cases reaches 10 years, as in the case of the secretary-general of the popular front for the liberation of palestine. the anti-imperialist struggle of the peoples and the struggle for the unconditional recognition of an independent sovereign palestinian state, a full member of the un, in the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, must be intensified.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the report contains measures to deal with and reduce red tape, but i do not see, either in the report or in the commission's intentions, a strong political will to tackle the phenomenon of professional tax evaders. the vat evasion - and this is also mentioned in the report - is 100 billion and vat revenues of 11% are also being concealed. but my second observation, and the most important observation of our group, is that this aid may be consolidating the trend of shifting taxation from direct to indirect taxes, with the consequence that the policy of the european union is to reduce direct taxes, reduce corporate taxes, reduce taxes on multinationals and increase indirect vat on consumer goods. an increase, which our employees pay along with the other cuts, resulting in an unfair regime. the future of vat with similar characteristics and the future of tax policy in general are therefore opposite to the future of a prosperous economic and social policy in the european union.
in economic terms, madam president, commissioner, vat plays an important role in the health of national budgets and, of course, the european budget, and so, with the known budgetary problems in the european union, it is important that the vat system works both correctly and efficiently. as a result of the administrative complexity of the existing system, vat unfortunately also has a significant impact on business administration throughout europe. and let us not forget that obligations such as the full recovery of vat and the integration of the various vat payments into the financial planning of a business are more feasible for the larger businesses, making life comparatively more difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises, that is, for 99% of businesses in the european union. but they also leave significant windows to fraud or tax evasion. in view of these factors, the proposals in this report constitute an excellent contribution by parliament in an area which is not within its legislative competence. measures to reduce red tape, such as the reduction of red tape and the single european invoice, will not of course transform the vat system, but they can make a difference. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action to reduce the number of vat fraud cases in the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore essential to simplify and standardize the legislation to combat fraud. it is good that the report links future revisions of vat rates and exemptions with social and environmental priorities. in the opinion of the committee on transport we called for a reduced or zero rate for public transport, which - although not included in the report - we hope will be included in the list of goods and services subject to reduced vat that the european parliament is asking the member states to provide. finally, in view of the concerted effort being made on road safety in the run-up to 2020, it would be a positive step if road safety items also benefited from the vat reduction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 13 october 2011, at 11.30.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the 'american employment act'.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to apologise for changing the guards in the middle of your debate. this by no means represents disrespect on the part of the commission for remarks made in the european parliament. this change was necessary because commissioner de gucht is working on exactly what we have been discussing today, namely free trade in korea, and my colleague mr šemeta had to go on an urgent trip to moldova. but i would like to assure you that all your remarks and questions have been properly noted and that, if you are not satisfied with the answers i provide, i will be very happy to continue our discussion in written form. regarding the topic we have been discussing today, i would like to thank you very much for putting this very important issue on our european agenda. i think you are right: when it comes to protectionism, the trade barriers commission has to behave very responsibly and very actively, which is exactly what we always try to do. i think that you very rightly pointed out the specificity and importance of the trade relationship between the united states and the european union. if we look at the size of the relationship and the size of the economy – and, as was rightly pointed out by one of the honourable members, there is the feeling that the future of american trade lies with asia – i always say: let us have a look at the real figures; let us have a look at how big the gdps of all the big countries are. and you know that all of them together have a smaller gdp than the united states, and that the united states has a smaller gdp than the european union. therefore our trade relationship is a most robust one. it creates 15 million jobs on both sides of the atlantic, our trade represents more than 400 billion in trade goods and more than eur 260 billion in services and, if you look at mutual investment in mutual stock options, we are talking about more than eur 2 trillion. so it is a very solid and robust trade relationship, and therefore it requires appropriate care. therefore we are investing a great deal of energy in tec contacts and in tec cooperation between the commission and the united states, represented by the white house in this particular case. we know how much we can gain if we are able to remove just one of the barriers and how much we could lose if new barriers are erected. this is exactly the approach the commission and commissioner de gucht will take at the upcoming very important negotiations, whether they be part of the eu-us summit at the end of october or the subsequent tec meeting, which should take place a day later. to conclude, i would like to assure you that we remain in close contact with our american partners; that this issue, which was raised by several members of the european parliament, will be followed very closely; and that the commission will do all that is necessary to defend the rights of eu businesses and eu job holders and to protect the good economic and business environment between the united states and the european union.
the debate is closed.
in writing. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its view on the need for the approximation of the laws of the member states in the field of insurance. the solvency ii directive, which will be implemented from 2013, creates for the first time a community framework within which the risk of insurance exposure and therefore of uncontrolled insolvencies of insurers will be reduced. the commission proposal, however, still lacks a strong emphasis on consumer protection in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurer, consumer protection irrespective of the insurer's country of origin, and protection of citizens in the event of fraud or abuse of policies by an insurance product. the european parliament's report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on these aspects.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation under the first reading procedure in the european parliament, which i voted in favour of, responds to the need to transpose into community law article 10 of the united nations protocol to combat the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and accessories and ammunition, which complements the united nations convention against transnational organised crime. the simplified procedures for the import and export of firearms for lawful purposes should in any case be applied with due care and always within the framework of european legislation and trade rules applicable in the eu, points which we emphasised in our opinion in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and which were included in the final proposal for the regulation.
i would like to congratulate mrs rühle on her excellent proposals. i would like to ask the commissioner the following question: for countries in deep economic recession, such as portugal, greece and ireland, could you think of a special regulatory framework for a transitional period, with strict transparency rules and the necessary laws, but also with some regulations that would help public procurement move forward and help the economy? for example, a drastic reduction in the maturity of measures, if they are infrastructure projects, or the use of community funding, if any, as a guarantee instead of a guarantee letter to the banks.
i'm the editor. - madam president, the reason for this question was the drastic changes that have taken place in the market for small and mediumsized enterprises with the great economic recession that we are going through at the moment. the revision of the sme act has highlighted the problems faced by smes, namely access to finance, illicit trade affecting smes and the internationalisation of european enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what i want to stress at this point is that there is a dramatic situation of lending by small and mediumsized enterprises in the countries which are experiencing the great economic recession, and these are greece, portugal and ireland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. their economic planning was different, their customers' purchasing power has been reduced by the 50% wage cut. i would therefore point out, commissioner, that there should be a central european regulation for loans to small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the decisions of the summit on the capitalist crisis and the planned bankruptcy of greece, the debt cut negotiated by the pasok government with its allies in the european union, are not being made to relieve the working class, the popular strata, but to share the losses that will temporarily be suffered by certain banks and other sectors of capital. for the working people, they mark a new, violent assault on their lives. the developments confirm that as the capitalist crisis and the dead ends of bourgeois management deepen, the european union becomes even more reactionary, more aggressive against the people: intensification of the anti-people policy, the strategic plan of the european union europe 2020 to transform workers in all its member states into a very cheap labor force for the benefit of capital. in these harsh conditions, an important element of the developments is the development of the struggles of the workers' popular movement, such as the magnificent 48-hour strike mobilization on october 19 and 20 in greece, which, despite the efforts of repression and organized provocations, resists, demands and fights against capitalist barbarity, for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies, the liberation from the european union, with popular power and unilateral cancellation of the debt. this struggle is supported by the communist party of greece and calls on the workers in all member states to participate massively, decisively, militantly, strengthening their class unity and class solidarity.
madam president, i would like to refer to the experience i have had in the last few days in tunisia. i have just returned to parliament from tunisia, where i was a member of the election observation mission, and i would like to convey to you a message of enthusiasm, a message of democracy, and the wonderful atmosphere and welcome which the tunisians have given to the european observers. we are a group under mr albertini and i wish to convey this feeling, not only because i know i share it with you, but also to ask for the support of this house in this delicate and difficult period of restoring democracy. the constituent assembly will begin its work to create institutions in tunisia and you will understand that in this context our support - whether political, national or economic - will be very important.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank mr. bowles and mr. berès very much for their questions. i think this is the first time we can attempt to make a 'preliminary' assessment of the functioning of the european semester and draw at least some of the conclusions that can be drawn at this stage as regards its practical application. i would like to emphasize that we can really only talk about the preliminary assessment, because the semester as such or the whole process has not been completed yet. this process, or at least its annual operation, is completed only when national parliaments adopt national budgets. this is the first time we can actually assess whether the whole procedure launched in january 2011 has had any positive effect: whether there is any new added value in national budgets compared to what was previously there, and whether what we all wanted has actually happened, namely greater synergy between the economic policies of the member states, greater concentration of resources in line with the main priorities of the european union. we do not know yet, the process is still ongoing, so it will be a matter of months before we can finally assess the effectiveness of the european semester. nevertheless, based on our first experiences, it seems to be a very legitimate process, desirable and taken very seriously by the member states, national parliaments and all the eu institutions involved in this process. i'd like to briefly recall how this process works. it starts at least as of this january when the european commission presents its annual growth analysis. on this basis, the ecofin council adopts some general guidelines for the member states in february. member states then have until april to prepare their national reform programmes plus stability and growth pacts or convergence programmes, depending on their stage of euro area membership. then there is the period for the european commission to prepare recommendations in agreement with the member states, responding to the comments made by the member states. then comes the very tense period in june, when the relevant sectoral councils, their groups, the preparatory bodies and the european council finally adopt these guidelines, which are - as in this case - finally confirmed by the ecofin council on 12 july. the timetable is very tight right now. we've already got some conclusions or some suggestions for the future on how to make this process better. however, i would like to point out that the european semester itself should be assessed in two aspects: the first aspect, namely the technical functioning of the european semester - what i have been talking about: how certain documents are adopted, how much time we have for this; the second element is the impact of the european semester on the macroeconomic dialogue in the european union and the involvement of the member states in this dialogue, on the impact of the macroeconomic situation, on public finances. this is the main element of the european semester, which is to link macroeconomic priorities with public finance opportunities and priorities. as regards the technical aspect, the first few months of the process of preparing the recommendations for the member states show that it is a very technical process, requiring a lot of work on the documents throughout the procedure. over 600 documents are prepared during the first six months. please note that most of these documents must then be translated into all national languages in due course. so it's a very complicated process logistically. we have a very tight schedule later in june, very short deadlines for all the relevant authorities to come forward and approve the relevant documents. there is little room for manoeuvre here, because the council's work schedule is so set up that there is really little we can change. so the question is, how can we make it even better? one of the suggestions that is coming up more and more clearly at the moment - and i hope that this will eventually be confirmed - is to start the whole process a little earlier. it is proposed that the european commission should present its annual report as early as december, giving the member states and the european union institutions a few weeks to prepare and to start this dialogue. so that by april we would be at a much later stage of discussion and coordination of member states' responses to the priorities identified in the commission's annual report and the preparation of documents on the reform agenda or the stability and growth pact would be more mature and better discussed. this will probably reduce the pressure that is particularly present at the end of may and in june: the pressure to ensure that all bodies are working efficiently and can accept all documents efficiently. i would like to point out how strong the determination of the member states was to make this process effective this year. as i said, there are a lot of documents, over 600. there are very short deadlines for opinion. therefore, member states have accepted certain derogations from the applicable rules. for a very large number of documents, the procedure was accepted even if not all the language versions were available. this is very difficult for many countries to accept, but they have expressed their willingness to do so, confirming their commitment to the process. they were only willing to work on the english or french version available at the time, in order to be able to speed up the work, to be able to conduct a practical dialogue and to adopt all the recommendations in due time. i would now like to turn to this second element, which is much more important to us, namely the assessment of the impact of the european semester process as a whole on the macroeconomic dialogue in the european union. we must remember that the european semester is only one of the elements that have emerged in the european union over the last few months as new instruments for closer economic cooperation between the member states and better implementation of the european union's priorities in this area. we have the european semester, the six-pack, which was adopted only recently, and the normal implementation of the stability and growth pact. all these elements form a certain whole and, at the same time, they bring much more transparency to the procedure, as well as much stronger dialogue between member states, much more transparency with regard to the actual economic situation in the member states. they also allow for greater pressure to be exerted on each other to keep the macroeconomic priorities in the right direction and to make everyone fully aware of the direction the union is taking and the challenges facing the member states. in my view, the sixth package has, in practice, introduced the involvement of national parliaments in the process of translating the eu's macroeconomic priorities for development into national policies through the strongest instrument available to a country, the national budget. national parliaments are informed at an early stage of the discussion about the priorities that a member state intends to communicate in its national reform programme, and about the budgetary approach that the member state will present, because they are informed about both documents submitted to the european commission. they then know the outcome of the european council's recommendations. they know what the european union recommends. the national parliaments then have the final say on the shape of the national budget, which means that they have a very good tool to control how national governments translate recommendations from eu priorities into national action. it is important that the european semester reinforces the direction of the european union's action, indicating one specific direction in which the member states should move. if the priority is to maintain or increase growth in some member states, to implement the europe 2020 agenda, then it is clearly marked and shown where the union should go, but at the same time it gives flexibility to individual member states, because we do not all start from the same place, but we all have to go in the same direction. this is very important. there is no one golden rule that everyone should follow, whether they need to or not. we have individual discussions about the member states, about their economic situation, we give them a clear message about where they should go, but we give them a fairly large margin of freedom in choosing the means to achieve that goal. the second important element that emerges is greater coordination and better targeting of the use of eu funds to achieve the priorities of the european union. national reform programmes, which set out how a country would like to spend at least a significant proportion of the funds it receives from the union, are integrated throughout the process. by coordinating this document with others related to the public financial management of the country concerned and with the eu priorities, by matching them all at the end of the road, we are sending a clear signal that the union has chosen these priorities, is ready to finance them and that we would also like - in the european union's view - that the country concerned subordinates its priority expenditure from the national budget to these objectives. then we will achieve the objective set for all the eu countries. the message is very clear now. in this respect, i think that the european semester has done very well, at least for the time being, in the council's view. how will this translate into the final national budgets? we do not know, because it depends on the decisions of the national parliaments. but the instruments are there, the opportunity is there and it must be seized. of course, it may turn out that our final evaluation after this year will still contain many questions and hints that we could have done something better. we must remember, however, that the european semester was introduced at a rather unfortunate time. we have a very big public debt crisis in the european union, we have some pretty significant problems with the banking sector. in fact, the union's economic situation is very dynamic. what we saw in april or may as priorities, as goals that are achievable in a given economic reality, in the reality of this spring, may prove to be either insufficient or impossible to achieve at this moment. it will therefore be easy in a few weeks to criticise the member states for not having done something despite the european semester. however, the dynamics of economic change in the european union and the development of the crisis are so great that it is really difficult at this moment to predict with a year's advance all the appropriate actions that should be taken. we must remember that all these instruments, the european semester, the six-pack, are designed to help us stabilise the macroeconomic situation in the european union and to give direction to our actions. but these are not the instruments that are supposed to free us from the problem of crisis in two or three weeks. these instruments were never designed in this way, so we cannot expect the application of the european semester to immediately improve the economic situation in the union. we believe that the european semester will significantly improve the macroeconomic dialogue in the union, which is its main objective. so far, the council's assessment is positive as regards the course of the proceedings. we are drawing more technical conclusions on how to streamline the process and give member states more scope to implement this process well, to participate fully and to have a better dialogue with the commission on these recommendations. there were questions about the european parliament's place in all this, whether it was a transparent process. the answer is yes, it is. all the documents are on the websites, they're public. anyone can participate in the process. the european parliament may also, in accordance with the new procedure, invite representatives of both the european council and the council to a debate, taking into account the macroeconomic situation. that's why i think things are going in the right direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity to share with you our assessment of this first european semester and also our plans for the coming year. the first european semester has been an important step in strengthening our economic governance. it is part of an effort to rebuild confidence through a clear focus on building the foundations for employment and growth and through stronger policy design and implementation. we had clear expectations of what a european semester should mainly achieve in substance. firstly, we wanted to ensure a closer integration of the policy analysis and guidance across fiscal and macroeconomic policies but also of the policy formulation in member states. secondly, we wanted to ensure that the policy guidance given to member states has a stronger effect on implementation, through a better ex-ante timing of policy guidance and through clearer and more concrete country-specific recommendations. at the same time, the european semester was supposed to ensure that the eu-level dimension in terms of policy spillovers was taken into account from the start when formulating policies at national level. against these expectations the first european semester has been successful. we have made significant progress on these key elements. when it comes to assessing the effectiveness of ex-ante policy guidance in terms of the follow-up by member states, it is a bit too early to tell: we are, after all, only part way through the ‘national semester’. a measurable answer will therefore only be possible when member states’ budgets and structural reforms have been decided and we have assessed them. i count on this house to play a full part in making this assessment. we will then have to follow up on the implementation and examine what is the impact of the measures taken. there is a clear recognition on the part of most stakeholders that the policy guidance has become more integrated across policy areas and is more focused on countries’ central priorities. it has also been clearer and more concrete, which should facilitate implementation. with the joint presentation of their scps and nrps, member states have set out their views on how the key policy challenges should be addressed. the commission has assessed these policy plans and proposed integrated recommendations based on the broad economic and employment policy guidelines and on the stability and growth pact in terms of legal instruments. the annual growth survey has set the horizontal policy priorities for member states and ensured that national programmes take account of the eu dimension from the start. while i consider the european semester a clear success and an important step forward, there is naturally also scope for improvement. in 2012 the most important aspect is certainly going to be a stronger focus on the growth dimension. as president barroso outlined here on 12 october, bolstering growth, through full implementation of key reforms on the single market but also through new and innovative financing instruments such as project bonds, is a central dimension of putting europe on the course out of the crisis. you will certainly see eu-level action on growth and employment at the heart of the next annual growth survey. the commission has also decided to advance the presentation of the annual growth survey to late 2011. this should allow for a fuller debate from the outset. in our democratic societies, reform efforts can only be sustained if they have legitimacy, both in terms of being anchored in the democratic process and carried by the elected representatives of the european citizens as well as in terms of delivering what serves the common good. this means of course that this house, as well as national parliaments, will have to play an important role in the european semester. a strong link between the eu dimension and the national dimensions of key policy challenges can only be established if these perspectives are brought together through true ownership. this can only be achieved if parliaments have a strong role. i believe that the spring interparliamentary meeting which you organised in 2011 could, if repeated, become an important institutional way of better involving national parliaments to ensure legitimacy. and of course, the new economic governance legislation underlines the need for national parliaments – and other stakeholders – to be fully involved in the semester, and in the elaboration of the scps and nrps.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, the european parliament, by a very large majority, had supported the european semester process from the outset, considering it a promising process aimed at bringing national budgets and structural change programmes in line in time, not with the objectives of the union in general, but in particular with the objectives of the development of the european economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and, in the first implementation of the european semester, we had a rather limited text of substantial deviation of the member states from the development objectives under the europe 2020 strategy, but also failure to comply with certain recommendations of the commission per member state at the initiative of the council. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we are all very much in favour of. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european semester is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in my view, the implementation of the european semester is anti-social, anti-democratic and reactionary, as member states, under political pressure and threats from the commission, adjust their budgetary objectives and budgets. the implementation of the directive effectively removes any possibility for any member state, regardless of which government has voted, to implement an alternative development policy. on the contrary, whatever policy the people of each country have adopted, it must implement the neoliberal austerity policies of the european union. finally, whether in greece the unemployed person gets unemployment benefit, whether in ireland the poor and homeless person gets welfare benefits, whether in portugal the worker gets 300 euros, it will be decided by mr barroso or mr barroso or mr rennes. finally, a legitimization such as the european semester, which has no democratic legitimacy, which violates the treaties of the european union, which violates and bypasses the national parliaments, which bypasses the european parliament and, above all, which bypasses and violates and ignores the interests of the peoples, is a threat to democracy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, the european parliament, as the only directly elected institution of the european union, has the power to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union. at the same time, the council's administration must be democratically accountable to european citizens for the use of union funds and comply with the relevant rules. however, the council administration has for a long time not accepted any invitation to meet the parliamentary committee responsible for the discharge procedure, which has not yet received answers to the questions it has asked. the european citizens, however, deserve better information on how their taxes are spent. i therefore believe that there should be no discharge and that if the last attempt at negotiation fails and if the council continues to take a different legal view of parliament's powers on the matter - given that the dialogue has so far reached a dead end and the legal backlog exposes all the institutions involved - we will now have only one option: referral to the court of justice of the european union to clarify this matter once and for all and to return to normal institutional functioning.
member of the commission. - mrs turunen, i can confirm that the european commission will honour the commitment it has made, and which president barroso has reiterated, to present all 12 key proposals before the end of this year. a number of these have already been presented. some of them are even very advanced. i was speaking earlier about the european patent. we have now put it forward for more than a year and i hope that it will perhaps be concluded, under the polish presidency, with a political agreement in the council. i would also add, to be completely objective, that in addition to the 12 key proposals we have committed ourselves to presenting before the end of this year, we are making progress on the other complementary proposals, mrs turunen. i take the example, under the control of neelie kroes, of the supplementary proposal on homelessness, which was a specific request by many members. neelie kroes didn't wait until next year. it has already put forward this proposal, which is one of the complementary proposals for the single market act. on the subject of the posting of workers, the aim of the new directive you mention will be to harmonize the implementation, under the authority of my colleague mr andor, of the directive on the protection of posted workers. at the same time, we want to remove unjustified obstacles to the free provision of services. we want to ensure that workers are properly protected and at the same time improve the functioning of the internal market. this proposal will contain provisions on administrative cooperation, on access to information for posted workers, on the prevention of abuses and circumvention - we know they exist - on control instruments, on sanctions and on legal remedies. the directive i have just mentioned for the implementation of the directive on the posting of workers would be aimed at its best practical application. we believe that the main purpose of this instrument will be to improve the information due to workers and businesses, administrative cooperation to make checks more effective and, once again, to prevent abuses which we know exist. we are not seeking to overturn the case law of the court of justice on this point, but we are going to make this directive to improve the implementation of the posting of workers.
i speak french to be clear. commissioner, in two words: class action. i am sure you are aware that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has already adopted, by a very large majority, an opinion on the collective action. i'm sure you're also aware of the results of the recent consultation mr. dalli ordered. the fourth lever of the single market act says nothing about collective action. it only refers to alternative dispute resolution. since the two tools are complementary, could you explain the absence of reference to the class action?
member of the commission. − we are committed to finding a balanced approach and ensuring that collective redress exists for all eu consumers, while building on strong safeguards against abusers. over the past months we have been involved in consultation on both the issue of adr – on which we are progressing very fast, and we should be coming up with some type of proposal at the end of this year – and also on collective redress, which, as you know, has also been through a consultation process and is now being analysed. we are also coordinating with the committee on legal affairs in parliament to see what their position on this issue is before coming up with our final proposal so that we can have, as far as possible, a coordinated approach. i am working on this with vice-president reding and we hope that, in conjunction with the legal affairs committee and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we can move forward fast, including on collective redress taking into account cross-border collective redress.
i asked my question in french because i thought mr barnier would answer. i would like to emphasize this point because in his speech on 16 november mr barnier said some interesting things about the class action. but there is no mention of this - i repeat and insist - in lever 4 of the single market act. thank you, mr dalli.
member of the commission. - just a few words, mr cutaş, to complete my answer in accordance with your instructions, madam president. we shall present this proposal before the end of the year to broaden the scope and make better use of the texts on vocational qualifications. you have automatic recognition for seven regulated professions at present, and we want to build on this experience and develop this mobility. so i will be putting forward a proposal on behalf of the european commission in the coming weeks.
madam president, my question is directed to mr barnier, who is familiar with the matter. and that's why i'm going to speak in greek. the commission has already been asking you questions for two years about the illegal sale of the greek telecommunications agency to deutsche telekom. in your initial reply you admitted that the provisions of the relevant directive on public procurement have not been correctly applied. since then, you've told me that you're investigating the matter to draw a final conclusion. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that both the greek government and the greek minister admit that union law has been violated in relation to this particular sale. the question is, is your investigation over? what will you do to protect eu legislation?
member of the commission. - mr chountis, i have not forgotten your call, which, by the way, dates back less than two years: i have not been here for more than two years! we have examined this situation in the light of the european texts and have looked very closely at how they are applied. i am speaking from memory on this subject, without having a legally precise note before my eyes. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament in this matter. that's why this case is still in the same place. you said there were new elements. i am ready to continue the dialogue with you on this matter and to question the greek authorities again, who are also very concerned at the moment, and we share their concerns. if there are new elements, i am prepared to examine them again in the context of the strict respect of european legislation on public procurement.
i do not want to surprise the commissioner, but this new procedure may have that element. i am simply saying that the illegal sale of ote shares to deutsche telekom is continuing without respect for eu law. i would also point out to you, commissioner, that a number of privatisations - whether one agrees with them or not - which are being prepared in greece will be carried out in the same illegal way. so you have to intervene. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. as a lawyer and having experienced the burdens and delays in the administration of justice caused by the admission to greek courts of almost all civil and commercial disputes, i could not help but vote in favour of this report. the principle of private initiative, that is to say, the initiative of the parties, prevails in civil and commercial law, which makes these areas a prime area for the application of alternative dispute resolution methods, whereas the parties are seeking speed in the resolution of their cases in the interests of legal certainty, planning and competitiveness. the alternative dispute resolution, in the manner and for the disputes proposed, seeks to optimise the efficiency of the administration of justice, to achieve the harmonisation of the rules of alternative dispute resolution in the common market for the benefit of traders at the pan-european level and to bring about an acceleration of procedures. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very important step in the process of harmonizing the laws of the member states. but the report is moving in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by which the european parliament refuses to grant the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2009 budget. the european parliament, the sole elected institution of the european union, has the power to scrutinise and, where it considers it appropriate, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union, and therefore of all its individual institutions, with a view to providing european citizens with comprehensive and fully transparent information and ensuring democratic control and political evaluation of budgetary management. in the context of democratic accountability for the council's administrative budget, progress was made with the tabling of important documents by the council. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's position on the draft directive is respected. the report rightly refuses to grant discharge until parliament has all the necessary documents and checks.
in writing. the report on mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, which i voted in favour of, redefines the debate on the europe 2020 targets in the field of people with disabilities. i have, however, differed in paragraph 53 by voting in favour of the amendment calling on the member states to adopt the proposal for an anti-discrimination directive. member states continue to make very little effort to support this social group (a characteristic of many of them is that they have not signed or ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities) while the economic crisis is leading several states, including greece, to make unacceptable cuts in public spending in this direction. the target of significantly increasing the labour market integration rate of people with disabilities (75% by 2020 from 30% today) is under threat, while the 1 in 4 proportion of people with disabilities currently living in poverty does not appear to be easing. it is clear that the eu and each individual member state need a new, more ambitious and obviously more generous strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market.
in writing. the public procurement directive first came into force 40 years ago (directive 71/305/eec). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it needs to be revised to meet both modern needs (simplified procedures to avoid red tape) and challenges (corruption and legal uncertainty). in the period of economic crisis in europe, bureaucracy is a potential impediment to the development of important development initiatives, while corruption and collusion are showing signs of intensifying. the reopening of the debate on public procurement is therefore timely and i support it for that reason.
in writing. the main argument of the report is that the best way to tackle unemployment is to promote labour mobility. according to this view, workers who lose their jobs because of the crisis and the austerity policies imposed across the eu, and more intensively in countries like greece, portugal and ireland, have no choice but to emigrate. although there are not enough jobs available at european level at the moment, the report fails to see that promoting labour mobility at all costs is contrary to regional and cohesion policy. the latter aims to support the endogenous economic and social development of europe's poorer regions, so that people can stay and find work there. the only solution to the problem of unemployment in europe is to overturn the policies which are being implemented, which are leading to middle-age working, flexible forms of work and are attacking wages and pensions. as this report fails to adequately address the real causes of unemployment and to propose radical and just solutions to reduce it, i voted against today's vote.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, labour mobility is particularly critical to economic growth and therefore the debate is timely. despite the fact that the eu is an area of free movement of citizens, only 2.3% of our fellow citizens say that they live in a member state other than their country of nationality. the reasons are many, such as language barriers, culture, emotional ties to the country, etc. in any case, however, member states at national, local and regional level have important responsibilities in facilitating the exercise of the right to labour mobility by removing any direct or indirect barriers. in particular, barriers linked to discrimination on grounds of nationality, denial of the right to family reunification, social security systems and other barriers may discourage or deter workers from seeking employment in another member state. the report aims to give concrete answers to these questions, it is moving in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the mutual evaluation procedure of the member states on the functioning of the single market is by no means neutral in practice, since it is part of the european services directive and essentially takes its guidelines from it. in addition to its own unique shortcomings, such as the selection and composition of the working groups by the european commission alone, the mutual evaluation process is a key driver of the services directive, which refers to the failed eu 2020 strategy and the single market act. the implementation of this service directive, also known as the bolkestein directive, will not result in the increase in jobs and the growth of smes as advertised. through the further reduction of labour and social rights, resulting from the liberalisation of the services market across europe, it strengthens the dominance of large companies, while aggravating the consequences of the crisis for european workers. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the report on global economic governance is part of the prevailing conservative rationale of responding to the crisis by imposing stricter control and supervision of countries worldwide and closer coordination of their economic and fiscal policies. its aim is to institute global neoliberal economic policies at eu level, serving the interests of the 'leading economies' and international finance capital, imposing harsh austerity policies and demolishing the remaining social gains of the peoples. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the role of the imf in the eu and globally, and fully supports the anti-people and anti-social policies of the g20 which it calls for to be implemented immediately. the report is going in the wrong direction, because the policies it advocates will not help to recover from the crisis or to avoid another one, but will instead exacerbate the consequences of the international financial crisis, exacerbate social inequalities, poverty and unemployment worldwide, and lead, in short, to the 'global economic and social impoverishment' of peoples. i have voted against the report for all these reasons.
in writing. the evolution of the world economy, with the emergence of new major factors, calls for coordinated action at european and international level to combat the effects of globalisation. i voted in favour of the report because i think it is moving in the right direction, but there is a need for enhanced cooperation and far-reaching reforms that will promote growth and financial and macroeconomic stability in the economies. i share the rapporteur's view of the importance of correctly measuring imbalances with the help of a set of indicators which should cover both internal and external imbalances in order to achieve strong, sustainable and balanced growth. it is necessary to address coordination gaps in the financial regulations so that certain actors in the financial system are no longer given the opportunity to benefit from regulatory arbitrage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it calls for greater attention to be paid to the situation of single mothers and encourages member states to adopt public policies, including policies in the areas of education, care, health, employment and social security. one in 20 women in europe is a single mother who needs support. this may limit the tragic reality of abortions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single mothers are not exposed to the threat of poverty and social exclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the elderly are not excluded from the family.
in writing. the single market and the divergence of national laws leave a wide margin of manoeuvre for organised crime. now, there's an even more complex variable. the economic crisis, which has given rise to other forms of organised crime exploiting the uncertainty and insecurity of citizens in particular. for example, greece, which has been hit hardest by the crisis, has recently seen a sharp increase in extortion (up to 50% in one year), smuggling (84.29%) and the circulation of counterfeit coins (56.99%). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. the report i voted for is aware of the new challenges, but the commission should consider, in addition to the existing legislative initiatives, new, more effective legislative initiatives in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the fight against organised crime in the european union because it is a fully legally based proposal, whereas it does indeed need to be considered in order to deal with this issue with particular care as it differs from terrorism. it is imperative that european states move aggressively to seize the proceeds of organised crime in order to condemn these practices and prevent their replication in the future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. the role of the foreign affairs committee is clear.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. we must remember, however, that a successful policy is not only judged by its objectives, even if they have clear measurable criteria, but also by the means employed to achieve them. in fact, development aid cannot be effective if it does not take account of the specific economic, social and political characteristics of the country to which it is directed. it is not possible to deliver when it often substitutes for the domestic production of countries, virtually destroying any prospect of developing local productive forces, and when screening is often extremely inadequate, with the result that aid is lost between corrupt governments and organised crime. the stakes, of course, are not in sending aid unplanned, just so that the developed world can get along with its conscience, but in providing substantial and strategic support to our fellow men who need it to get back on their feet and move forward in today's globalized environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, if i understand correctly, at one point the speaker referred to the 'shedding' of the greek debt. indeed, it is one of the issues. there are various scenarios for 50 to 60%. madam colleague, i didn't understand what your opinion was. because i recognize your good intentions, i would like to tell you that the greek debt is 360 billion and a haircut of 50% does not mean that it will be reduced by 180 billion, but it will be reduced by 25 billion, which means that the greatest damage will be suffered by greek banks and insurance companies that will be sold at a lower price. if these facts i'm telling you are true and not a magic image, please tell me, do you still have an opinion about this "haircut"?
member of the commission. − madam president, i can understand that there is a heated discussion here and that there are a lot of concerns among members of this parliament. i would like to underline that the commission shares your concerns, and i can understand that it is not only about nokia or arcelor. there were some references to other cases, and i think that we have to realise that this will not be an unusual case at times of crisis. the crisis is here; it is not a conspiracy or an alibi, as somebody has suggested. it is a reality, and we all have to face this reality together. by ‘all’ i mean the commission, the national governments, parliament: everybody, because otherwise we will not find a real solution. so we need to change, and we need to change because in an open world we have to face the problem of competitiveness. we really need to help our industry to cope with all these difficulties, so we will have another debate on new skills, innovation and research. there have been a lot of good references here. we have to help, but in the meantime we also have to help all these people you have mentioned who have lost their jobs. what can we do about this? it is obvious that there are a lot of different opinions here, but i can concentrate on some points that commissioner andor has already raised and i would like to consider again. what can the commission do? first, we can ensure that the law is implemented and enforced and that these companies have done what they have done according to the law. secondly, we can use the funding we have available in the best way we can. with regard to the funds and the globalisation fund, i would like to reassure all the members of this parliament that in the coming financial perspectives this globalisation fund will be increased, because there is a need for more workers to benefit. that is why the commission is negotiating with the governments of belgium and romania in order to find the proper way to use this globalisation fund. this is a first reaction about compensation. another thing we can do to go forward is to use all the other appropriate funding in order to help. this leads to our next debate about a new initiative from the commission concerning skills, innovation, social business and social economy. these are new ideas we are going to promote. referring to certain points the member states have raised, both ms delvaux and mr cercas recalled the idea that we need a new framework for restructuring our companies. yes, we agree, and as you might be aware, the commission is embarking on a consultation procedure focused on this idea; all proposals are welcome. ms durant also came up with some proposals, which were also supported by other members. we and our services are here to receive proposals, and we will involve all the stakeholders in order to find the best way to go about restructuring our companies. i would like to say that the commission is already facilitating some cases – this is in answer to mrs wallis. for example, we have intervened in an irish case, the talktalk case, and we are also willing to facilitate other cases if they are mentioned to us. there was also a lot of criticism about europe lacking a common industrialised policy. yes, this is true: we do not have a common policy; we are trying to get the best result in order to harmonise the different policies of the member states. this is something that brings us to a more general political approach to the future of europe. i would like to reiterate what president barroso has already proposed. we have here a proposal about getting out of the crisis – the stability growth and deployment proposal – and i can see that the majority of this house supports it. but we need to do more in order to persuade the council and parliament. we have to work together towards this. there were many references to the lack of a common base, referring to a common corporate tax. yes, this is true; but it is also true that the commission has come up with a proposal. parliament has not yet voted for it and the council is lagging behind. so please, let us work together. to finish, madam president, i would like to underline that it is not the time for everybody here to seek national or separatist solutions. we have to work together if we are to find a way out of this crisis, and that means that we have to enhance all the procedures of cooperation between the commission, parliament and the council – all the procedures in order to have a harmonised approach to very difficult issues such as financial policy, taxation, restructuring of our industry, innovation and research. we are doing all we can, and i hope that this house will help the commission and the council in this task.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by regina bastos, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the agenda for new skills and jobs (a7-0320/2011 - 2011/2067 (ini))
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank ms bastos for this report and all members of parliament for their proposals to strengthen the actions set out in the agenda for new skills and jobs. today we have to recognise that we face a challenge. it is a challenge for the european union as a whole, and for many other regions in the world: how best to support growth and the jobs which are so desperately needed in a climate of stringent fiscal consolidation. that is the challenge, and there is no easy answer to it. a lot depends on political leadership and decisions on the financial and economic crisis, but let us try to do what we can do, in the light of our roles. in order to step up the impact and visibility of the commission’s contribution to the europe 2020 goals and to meet the deadline – we are at about 75% of the target employment rate – we have undertaken to present a set of employment initiatives in early 2012. let me now inform you about those concrete actions. first, the commission will duly reopen the debate on flexicurity policy as a means of tackling labour market segmentation, so that everyone in europe, whatever their background or sector and wherever they live, can have a quality job. the conference on flexicurity on 14 november will provide an opportunity for all stakeholders to present their views on this key issue. secondly, in the present economic situation, there is unlikely to be net job creation in the union unless the member states step up their policy to stimulate labour demand. that is something we have to realise. there is nothing automatic about creating new jobs. the commission will therefore present principles for generating conditions that foster job creation for the benefit of all key players, including the public authorities and the social partners. thirdly, geographical and occupational mobility is a crucial way of tackling imbalances between sectors and regions where there is high unemployment and where there are labour shortages. the commission will therefore outline the way eures, our tool for mobility, can be modernised and turned into a powerful tool. we also intend to open a debate on how the union can face the situation of the mobile workforce, and particularly of migrants. we also need to see how employment policy might address the long-term challenges facing us so that we will be able to make the most of employment opportunities in the future. in particular, the restructuring of the economy and of businesses, as we discussed previously, and the transition to a low carbon economy, should be managed and anticipated better. lastly, the commission will bring forward proposals on developing a more strategic and integrated skills governance model. indeed, initiatives at national and eu level currently suffer from a lack of coordination and of mechanisms for exchanging information on the anticipation and analysis of skills. the most pressing challenge for our societies today is the high rate of unemployment among young people. that is the real problem. to tackle it, the member states committed themselves in june this year to implementing a comprehensive set of measures under the europe 2020 flagship initiative youth on the move. one particular concern is that 7.5 million young people aged between 15 and 24 are neither in employment, nor in education or in training. just imagine that. we are talking about 7.5 million young people. unless something is done they will become a generation of wasted talent. there is a wider and economic social cost such as tax revenue loss, the extra cost of health and medical services, the price to pay for crime and mainly social exclusion – we are talking about real social exclusion now. the young opportunities initiative announced by president barroso in his state of the union speech in this house will focus on many issues, including getting young people who have left school or training without any vocational qualification back into school or training and, secondly, providing opportunities for work experience to those who have a qualification but have not found work. the initiative will give the member states and all the actors involved the necessary support for delivering on the measures. as the report rightly points out, it is vital not to forget society’s most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups in this time of economic difficulty. here we have the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, and a commitment to lift out of poverty at least 20 million people by 2020. last week the first annual convention of the european platform against poverty took place in kraków, with very good results. let me finish by saying something about the eu’s future spending plans. on 6 october, the commission brought forward a proposal on cohesion policy legislation for 2014-2020, and on the role of the european social fund. we propose that after 2013 that fund should increase by at least 7.5% and thus account for at least 25% of cohesion spending, or at least eur 84 billion for the seven-year period up to 2020. the social fund will contribute to three of the five eu headline targets: employment, education and reducing poverty and social exclusion. our proposal for a regulation on the european social fund in the future involves allocating at least 25% of that fund to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. that is a substantial increase on the current eur 10 billion. i hope that the member states and parliament will support this very significant increase for the most vulnerable groups. i welcome the fact that we can share views on how the agenda should be implemented, and look forward to working with parliament on this in the future.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs bastos on her excellent report on a very important subject. i think, commissioner, that the economic developments are now outstripping us. we heard earlier about the labour market realignments involving nokia and arcelor. in my country, greece, a large number of civil servants have decided to leave their posts, to be put into a transitional period called 'reserve' and in general, both in the public and private sectors, there are very large redundancies. the social fund has a very long experience in the field of labour reintegration and in the field of retraining of the workforce. i would like to ask you: do you have in mind large, specific, tailor-made retraining programmes for greece in this period of the great recession? technology and money in the social fund exist.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs bastos, on her comprehensive report on one of the most sensitive issues concerning the future of europe. i believe that, from both a technical and a theoretical point of view, the priorities set out in the report are based on sound thinking and suggest the right actions for the benefit of the younger generations. but i am looking to find the generation of young people who will enjoy the fair and ambitious proposals of the agenda. i can't find this generation. instead, i find a generation of ninjas, a generation characterized by "no income, no job, no assets". that's what we're going to make now. i've been a lawyer for 40 years, and back home, a lot of people thought i was good. i have to tell you that for the last two years i have had to sit in the student's chair again to learn the labour law. in the name of the crisis, we've destroyed everything. and i say this because i don't want to waste the little time i have: we must all understand that work is not just a means of earning a living. it's also self-respect. we must give the young people of europe self-respect.
madam president, when we talk about the new skills, new jobs agenda, i immediately have in mind the opposite agenda: old skills, no jobs. that's what it means. regina bastos is a friend of mine, i love her, and she's done an excellent show. the report is difficult because when we make a report to the european parliament we do not do it in vitro, in a test tube. we call this exhibition "in vivo", in life. and life is very difficult these days. there's an economic crisis, there's a recession. and regina has to take this whole difficult situation into account and make a very specific report that speaks about the future, but also looks at the present. it is not necessary to be "politically short-sighted", but it is also not necessary to be "presbyopic". how will he do it? we socialists will help her. because we want flexibility, but we want it together with safety. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the european union and the european institutions cannot ask member states which are affected, such as greece, to abolish collective agreements.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the tax treatment of parent companies and subsidiaries in different member states (com (2010) 0784 - c7-0030/2011 - 2010/0387 (cns)) (a7-0314/2011). oral question (o-000229/2011) by sharon bowles, on behalf of the econ committee, to the commission: compatibility of the tax agreements of the uk and germany with switzerland with the eu savings tax directive (b7-0635/2011)
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for this debate on such an important subject. the commission is seriously concerned about the situation, as the lack of international coordination permits abusive practices. it leads to unfair and inefficient taxation, and my services are working hard to deal with these questions. next year i plan to table an initiative addressing these issues. although i share the concerns expressed in the report by sven giegold, it is more appropriate to address them via the planned initiative. i would greatly welcome your continued support in this area. as regards bilateral savings taxation agreements, i understand the member states’ wish to find solutions to consolidate their budgets. concluding bilateral agreements in order to tax hidden savings income in third countries might appear very attractive. however, the competence of the union and the member states in this area needs to be respected. i am convinced that only a coordinated eu approach towards third countries will allow member states, big and small, to reach a level playing field in the taxation of savings. i would therefore like to repeat my call to rapidly reach a unanimous agreement on the revision of the savings taxation directive and on the mandate to negotiate tax agreements for the european union as a whole. some of you mentioned that the commission has to be brave enough to make proposals. this year you have received a number of proposals which are probably out of step with what would normally have been suggested in previous years. i can reassure you that subsequent proposals will follow, on the issues of abuses and double non-taxation. we are working on this very seriously, since this subject has to be fully addressed one way or another. in terms of savings taxation, the commission will ask the council to extend a mandate to us to negotiate with switzerland. without this mandate, no negotiation is possible. i am convinced that by acting together we can achieve much more than with bilateral agreements, so i once again urge member states to extend this negotiating mandate and immediately allow the commission to start negotiations with switzerland.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 26 october, at 12 noon.
in writing. parliament's position on the 2012 draft budget, as amended by the council, shows that the ep supports an ambitious but realistic budget for the eu. the budget proposed by the ep supports investments in sectors that boost economic growth and contribute to growth and the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy through cohesion policy, programmes for research, innovation, employment, youth mobility, energy efficiency and production safety and food quality. it also responds to emergencies arising within and outside the eu through civil protection. it shall also take account of the political priorities which the union has undertaken at international level, such as aid to palestine and development aid to the countries of asia and latin america. at a time when citizens are facing continuing and immense problems due to the crisis, it is necessary to join forces and use all the means available at national and european level. the eu budget, with its emphasis on investment, is part of the response to the crisis and is a budget that brings multiple benefits to member states.
in writing. the eu's financial obligations have increased in recent years while its budget has remained stable at a very low level of 1.08% of gdp. the draft budget voted today was adopted in 2006. this means that it had not taken into account the crisis at global and pan-european level and its consequences on the lives of european citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the expenditure on defence policies is higher than that on education and larger amounts have been earmarked for large enterprises compared to those for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the draft budget of the union, combined with the austerity programmes implemented in the member states, are worsening the growth rates and deepening the recession. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the common taxation system for parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states is based on an existing council directive and essentially concerns its simple codification by way of a reformulation. i voted against because the report correctly points to the downward trend in the corporate tax rate in the eu and the absence of taxation or double non-taxation. the report itself also acknowledges that simple codification is not a solution to all the above problems. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the result is essentially to simply codify - and therefore continue - the dominant eu tax policy which is far from a socially just, acceptable and common european tax policy. a growth-oriented tax policy with a redistributive role capable of tackling the serious problem of tax competition, effective control and taxation of offshore companies and the dismantling of the notorious tax havens that also flourish in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the current taxation directive needs to be reviewed. although the primary objective of the single internal market is to benefit consumers and businesses, the imposition of different tax rates by member states still creates significant distortions of competition.
in writing. the report acknowledges that 'austerity measures in some member states are coincident and partly responsible for the very significant increase in unemployment' and 'deplores the fact that, in the midst of the crisis, member states have cut their budgets for education', while at some points it mentions the need for stable and permanent employment. the overall rationale of the report, however, is that it calls on member states to adapt their policies to suit market needs and, despite the pretexts, it actually places the responsibility for lifelong learning on the workers. it also considers, within the framework of the eu2020 strategy, competitiveness and the promotion of 'employability' as a key priority and objective, maintaining, inter alia, flexicurity-type logic. finally, by making the market and its needs the dominant factor in developing skills and determining new types of jobs and jobs, it supports the linking of enterprises with educational institutions and 'underlines the need for employers to be involved in the management of educational institutions and in the development of curricula, teaching methods, apprenticeship programmes, assessment and qualifications'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as a whole. today 23 million people are unemployed across the eu, about 10% of the working population. looking at youth unemployment, especially in countries hit by the crisis, this rate is appalling: 42.9% in the under-25 age group in greece, 46.2% in spain. one in two young people unemployed. these figures certainly do not reflect the dreams and vision of a united europe, let alone the dreams, vision and ambitions of the young europeans who are also the future of this continent. it is clear that in a strategy, in an agenda such as this, for new skills and jobs, it is essential to set numerical targets for 2020. but it is contradictory that on the one hand this agenda is adopted and its ambitious targets are set, and on the other hand many member states, five in 2011, are cutting funding for education at a time when growth rates in europe are "swinging". there is no alternative. the member states must allocate money to research, education and innovation. we must create the opportunities that the younger generation deserves.
in writing. the cass report. bastos (s). - (gr) mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of it because i think it is comprehensive and offers ideas for new tools and policies in the field of employment. the points in the report concerning both education and the promotion of the workforce and job creation are moving in the right direction. i am personally anxious about the future of our young people, because at european level we are witnessing the signs of the recession and the consequent increase in unemployment, which now exceeds 9.5% of the european population.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, once again we are discussing in this house the creation of a common european resettlement programme. we discussed this again a few months ago, we are bringing it back into relevant discussions about the asylum package this time around, and we all agree that the refugee resettlement programme is directly linked to the overall asylum package that we should have completed by 2012. but while we all have the same intention, we ultimately disagree on who will decide and how. and of course this disagreement, as long as this debate continues and we remain at the same point, translates into political inadequacy. when we have 84,000 requests from our fellow human beings for resettlement and we manage to handle only 6,800, you realize the scale of the problem. and resettlement - we have to explain this every time - is not just a possibility, which we have talked about in the past, that europe should have to show solidarity with third countries and respect for our fellow men who are in trouble. resettlement is about saving a human being when we can't protect him where he is. this is resettlement, especially in this difficult time with the big changes that we have in the countries of the arab world. we are aware that the council has its own position, but delaying and postponing every time is not going to help. and let me close by saying that this should be self-evident to all of us. and we in parliament take our responsibility and we stress it every time. it should be obvious that we will be using the 628 million euro of the refugee fund. the application of the treaty of lisbon in relation to the union's interinstitutional functioning should be self-evident. it should also be self-evident that europe has no room for disagreement - today on the economy, tomorrow on migration - we have resettlement, we have the asylum package. we must finally all come together, make the most of every opportunity that we have at union level.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? members of the european parliament! ladies and gentlemen! one of the greatest challenges facing modern medicine and public health is the emergence and spread of antibiotic-resistant strains of key pathogenic bacteria. since the late 1990s, the problem of antimicrobial resistance has been growing at an alarming rate, generating further clinical, epidemiological, socioeconomic and political problems. an increasing number of patients are susceptible to infections with bacteria that are not normally pathogenic to healthy people and to those in nursing homes, which are important reservoirs of resistance. this is compounded by a decline in interest by pharmaceutical companies in antibiotics that would be effective against multidrug-resistant bacteria. effective treatment and control of common bacterial infections may become increasingly difficult in the future. investing in scientific programmes to develop new antibiotics and new strategies is the most urgent task to be undertaken in the area of countering the phenomenon of increasing drug resistance. a huge neglect is the abandonment of new drug development by pharmaceutical companies over the last 20 years, which has resulted in very high registration requirements, huge clinical trial costs and insufficient industry-wide profits. i want to point out that only two new molecules were introduced into medicine at that time. antimicrobial resistance is not a new phenomenon. the increasing prevalence and emergence of new resistant strains is a serious public health concern. this situation was recognised by the council as early as 1999, when it adopted a resolution on a 'strategy against microbiological threats' and a conclusion on antibiotic resistance. in many countries of the european union, strains of bacteria have emerged that are resistant to all available drugs. the list of pathogens is growing. for these bacteria, new and effective drugs are not expected to be introduced in the near future. the prospect of obtaining them is at least 10 years. infection with drug-resistant bacteria severely limits the availability of proven, safe treatments, requiring the use of so-called last-resort drugs that have increasingly failed in recent times. treatment with these antibiotics is often unscientific and leads to an increase in the number of adverse reactions as well as therapeutic failures. the increase in health care costs for a patient infected with a multidrug-resistant microbe has many dimensions. in addition to the cost of antibiotic therapy itself, there are costs for other medicines used in combination with antibiotics, for transferring the patient to an intensive care unit, and for anti-epidemic measures such as microbiological diagnostics, isolation of patients, and the secondment of staff to care for a single patient. the need for longer hospital stays increases healthcare costs, and the costs of prolonged incapacity for work also increase. since 2001, a great deal of work has been done in the field of antibiotic resistance. i would like to give you a few examples. first, the second commission report on the implementation of the council recommendations on the prudent use of antimicrobials in medicine, published in april 2010, was adopted by the council on 25 june. this report reported on the progress made by member states in the context of the many different initiatives that have been taken since the first report. secondly, the specialised agencies of the european union, in particular the european centre for disease prevention and control, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, are working closely together in this area. for example, there are now european-wide networks for monitoring resistance and the use of esac antibiotics in medicine and, to a lesser extent, in veterinary medicine. third, a number of actions have been taken to combat antimicrobial resistance in the food chain. for example, european union legislation on animal nutrition has banned the use of growth-promoting antibiotics in animal feed since january 2006. trends in antimicrobial resistance in animal diseases or infections transmitted from animals to humans and other factors that may pose a risk to public health shall also be monitored. at the international level, the european union supported the adoption of a european strategic action plan on antibiotic resistance at the meeting of the world health organisation regional committee for europe in september this year. we also set up, together with the us, the transatlantic task force on antimicrobial resistance. e council has on several occasions invited member states to take action to ensure the prudent use of authorised antimicrobials in medicine and veterinary medicine. in particular, this concerns the conclusion on antimicrobial resistance adopted in june 2008. in these, the council called on member states to strengthen safety systems and improve the quality of data on antibiotic resistance and antimicrobial use, and to promote the prudent use of antibiotics in both medicine and veterinary medicine. the development of new antimicrobial measures and the important role of incentive schemes for investment in research are issues under consideration by the council. in its conclusions on innovative incentive schemes for effective antibiotics adopted in december 2009, the council called on member states to strengthen incentive schemes for research into and development of new effective antibiotics. it also called on the member states and the commission to enable the development of new antibiotics for which there is a specific medical need, and to identify appropriate regulatory instruments to facilitate the rapid introduction of new antibiotics. ladies and gentlemen! what about the future? all legislative proposals will depend on initiatives by the commission. i am sure that commissioner dalli will be more forthcoming about his plans for the future in this area. the council will naturally give positive consideration to any proposals made by the commission. the issue of antimicrobial resistance will remain a priority for the council. as early as 2009, the council asked the commission to present a comprehensive action plan by the end of 2011 with concrete proposals to encourage the development of new effective antibiotics. we expect to publish this document next month. moreover, the upcoming us-eu summit is also planning to agree on future cooperation in this area. the issue of antibiotic resistance is particularly important from the council's point of view and has therefore been high on the agenda of the danish presidency, our partners in the trio. the danish presidency is planning to organise a conference on the use of antibiotics on 14 and 15 march next year. the conference will address the challenges and risks associated with the use of antibiotics. in conclusion, i would like to say that this assembly intends to adopt a resolution on 'antimicrobial resistance as a public health threat'. it thus follows up on an earlier resolution adopted in may, which focused more on the use of antimicrobials in animals. these initiatives clearly show that the council and the european parliament share the same interest in this issue and have the same objective: to stop the spread of first-line antibiotic-resistant organisms and to develop new effective antibiotics to combat resistant strains. in closing, i would like to express my appreciation and my thanks to you, members of the european parliament, for raising this issue, which is so important for the health of the citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission shares the concern expressed in the draft report as regards antimicrobial resistance and has already taken action to address this important threat to health. the commission plans to strengthen action in support of member states in this area and will present, next month, a five-year action plan on antimicrobial resistance (amr). the promotion of the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in human and veterinary medicines will be a cornerstone of our policy and actions for the years to come. the broad aims will be to mitigate the risk of developing amr in humans through promotion of the prudent use of antimicrobials, to help member states address the issue of sales of antibiotics without prescription, to support member states’ enforcement of the prescription-only requirements for antibiotics and to address the identified shortfalls through new activities, such as guidelines, exchange of best practices, etc. for the veterinary sector in particular the issue of amr will be addressed in the context of the review of the legal framework for veterinary medicines and medicated feeding stuffs. as regards the development of new effective antimicrobials, the commission is committed to exploring with all relevant stakeholders how to ensure the availability of new, effective antimicrobials and treatments against infectious diseases, along with the promotion of the prudent use of such antimicrobials. in the context of the current economic difficulties, our joint efforts at local, national and eu level for the prevention and control of antimicrobial resistance across all sectors will also contribute towards mitigating the important economic impact resulting from healthcare costs and productivity losses related to amr.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr. president, no one expected fukushima to be hit by a tsunami. hardly anyone foresaw the financial crisis of 2008. our societies are not well prepared for possible, but not common, outlier events. this is particularly true in the case of the creation of antibiotic-resistant microorganisms, where it is a matter of chance or, in the darwinian sense, the evolution of a super-resistant super-microbe that today's antibiotics will not be able to deal with. resistance to antimicrobials is a phenomenon that clearly has a cross-border dimension. the lisbon treaty therefore provides that the european union has the competence and the obligation to act in this area. our defenses in this case are only as strong as its weakest link. we must therefore put particular emphasis on countries with high levels of antimicrobial resistance and it is necessary to address the over-reaction with interventions throughout the chain: citizens, doctors, pharmacists, the pharmaceutical industry. which will have very significant economic and fiscal implications because antibiotics are expensive. it is therefore positive that today the plenary of parliament voted in favour of the creation of a specific action, which i proposed in the 2012 budget, which is intended to deepen research into the social and economic causes of waste and will facilitate the design of an action programme in the most vulnerable countries. we must also recognize that there is a market failure, especially in the areas of research and development of new antibiotics. when antibiotics, the last line of defence, have to be used sparingly, it makes sense that there should be no incentive for their development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, key to the effort is to limit the widespread use of so-called broad-spectrum antibiotics. it's absurd to use weapons of mass destruction where we can send smart bombs. that is why we are also calling for more investment in this area. finally, we need to understand that antimicrobial resistance is actually depleting non-renewable resources globally. it is therefore necessary for the commission to make proposals in this respect and to follow up the council recommendation of november 2001 and ensure that its content is effectively implemented.
the principle of precaution is enshrined in our european constitution, the treaty of lisbon. this is because, quite simply, in the history of mankind, we have often had the early signs of an impending catastrophe, but we have not acted in time and the consequences have been dramatic. the case of antibiotics is one such case. we have already seen the first signs and now is the time to act immediately. i am very pleased that the commission is preparing a proposal on how we will act as a european union in concert against this danger and i hope that this proposal will succeed in covering all the important points. we really need to close the door on the unnecessary use of antibiotics. we need to stop giving over-the-counter antibiotics to people, animals and crops.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, it is clear that we must preserve the innocence of children and, in accordance with the findings of scientific research, lead them to early sexual education and, above all, protect them from sexual violence which violates their childhood psyche and leaves scars on their lives. the creation of mentally balanced citizens means the creation of balanced societies. unfortunately, however, at tender ages we witness phenomena of educational violence, extracurricular and intra-curricular violence, sexual abuse of young people, even within the home and within the school. the highly dangerous phenomenon has taken on very worrying dimensions as it is promoted through a variety of online communication modes. this development makes the identification of those who promote child pornography a very difficult undertaking. the instigators use deceptive methods to lure children into pornographic web sites. particular emphasis should be placed on early prevention and proper information of children with regard to, inter alia, the indirect and direct traps that are increasingly appearing in online spaces. the directive on combating the sexual abuse of children and child pornography, which is now being voted on, has as its main objective the adoption of pan-european rules and provisions. i congratulate the rapporteur and i will support her report.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs lambert who has done an excellent job on one of the most important problems facing europe today. i am very sceptical, however, about the effectiveness of what we are discussing. the reality is tragic. my country, greece, and the commissioner knows this very well, has become the main entry point for migrants, particularly from the countries where the arab spring is taking place, and as a result there is a large influx of migrants into greece. there is a weakness in guarding the turkish border for exits, and there is a great weakness in guarding the greek border for entries. these two events are creating an explosive situation, with the result that hundreds and thousands of migrants are flocking to greece and their stay, i would say, is beginning to be unsuitable for a civilized state. mrs malmström, we must review the dublin treaty because, as it works, on the one hand the poor refugees are sent back to greece, on the other the east is crowding them back there and finally everyone is packed in greece. you should see how you can help at this moment so that we can respond, as humans, to the needs that are being created.
mr president, in a statement 61 years ago, the father of the european union, robert schuman, said that europe would be able - he said at the time - to pursue one of its main tasks with more means: the development of the african continent. i say this and i quote this statement because today, unfortunately, we have not fulfilled this historic obligation, neither to africa nor to the other less developed countries with continuing violence and conflict, from which the refugees come. the united nations high commissioner for refugees in its latest report notes a 17% increase in asylum applications in developed countries in the second half of this year alone. the responsibilities of europe are therefore great and specific means are required, as robert schuman said at the time, to be able to meet these needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the agreement in principle with the council on the directive we are discussing today, to ensure minimum requirements for the recognition of beneficiaries of international protection, is of course balanced, positive and encouraging and, of course, therefore deserves much praise from the rapporteur for all the effort she has put in. i would remind you that i too - and mr díaz de mera has already mentioned this - that our group did not vote for the report in committee at the first stage, but we are now pleased to be able to vote in favour of it. but beyond that, in order to have the desired results, in order to be able to provide protection for our fellow men and to realise the vision of the founding fathers of the union, we need high quality implementation, as mentioned earlier, solidarity, equal burden sharing, a comprehensive asylum package which we hope will be completed by 2012. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs lambert on her excellent and important work. the recast of the original directive 2004/83/ec is part of the process towards a common european asylum policy by 2012. the rapporteur, through her proposal, respects national legislation, gender equality, the protection of minors and calls for protection with higher standards. we must be particularly careful in the matter of determining who is entitled to subsidiary aid and who is entitled to special protection. we must be careful not to abuse these rights. the burden of migration is deemed to be shared. the problem of immigration is difficult to solve, but we can, however, manage it with the right approaches. in particular, following developments in north africa and the arab world, we must find a european strategy to deal with the problem of migration, so that member states are not left to their own devices and that the poor people who are forced to migrate and the citizens of europe who bear this burden are not exploited. we must show solidarity with refugees and with each other in the member states. i hope that the adoption of this directive will help us to move towards the revision of the dublin ii treaty, which i consider necessary.
madam president, it is historic that the european parliament has approved the first agreement on the transfer of passenger status data to a third country, and this is because it has taken account, perhaps not of all of it, but of the european parliament's most important concerns and observations. the protection of personal data - and i think we can all agree on this - is a particularly sensitive and important issue for the european citizen, and the european parliament must therefore fight and is fighting to defend the rights of the european citizen whom we are all called upon to represent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. today's approval of the agreement shows that, despite the differences in legal systems with a third country, it is possible to negotiate at european level and to avoid controversial bilateral agreements with individual member states. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the european parliament wants to see a clear link between the agreement currently under negotiation with the united states and the general agreement on transatlantic data protection which is also under negotiation. finally, i would like to express my deep concern at the fact that article 16 on data protection of the lisbon treaty which is the relevant legal basis was not used as a legal basis and let me remind you that the european data protection supervisor has also raised reservations in this regard.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will try to answer a few of the questions raised. on the question of necessity, the commission has held quite a lot of meetings with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to try to explain, with examples from the us and australia, the necessity and use of pnr. these sessions have been restricted because they are, of course, sensitive. i know that us representatives have also met members of that committee. we on the commission side are, of course, willing to continue those meetings and to provide further examples and explanations if you wish. i understand your frustration concerning the question of profiling, baroness ludford. it is indeed rather frustrating, because there is no legal definition of this: that is the problem. we do not have a legal definition and we cannot invent one. that is something we need to address. that is why we have this non-automatic process, in order to adhere as closely as possible to our own standards. you might not like this, but it is the only basis on which we can move forward. a question was raised about the fundamental rights agency. we did ask them for an opinion, but they told us that it was beyond their mandate to give an opinion on an international agreement, so they could not do so. we have, of course, consulted widely in other areas, but we cannot get a formal opinion from the agency. what we are discussing today is the result of international negotiations between the european union and australia. we tried to achieve something together. in a negotiation – as we know, because we are very used to negotiating in the european union – you give and take. you will not get 100%, but everybody will try to get the maximum possible. australia is, like every country in the world, entitled to collect passenger name data from the passengers who land there. all countries are allowed to do that, which is why the commission has proposed a european pnr system. we will discuss that at some other time. like it or not, it is a fact. air carriers can be forced to provide these data, which they have been collecting since the beginning – for decades – for commercial purposes. those data can be requested by a member state. our task is to make sure that these agreements are as robust as possible when it comes to protecting fundamental rights, and as clear as possible when it comes to limiting their scope to what is absolutely necessary. we must also make sure that the freedoms and integrity of passengers are protected as much as possible, and that provision is made for redress, erasure, access etc. i think that we have achieved this, and the agreement is very close to the resolution that you adopted a year or so ago, and the mandate given by the council. there will also be a review. the agreement will be reviewed by the authorities in australia, where of course there are also concerns about data protection, and there will be reviews from the eu side. again, we have not yet got 100% of what we asked for, but i think most of our concerns are addressed here. i believe that this is a good agreement that takes into consideration both our aim to fight serious organised crime and terrorism, and the need to protect the freedoms and fundamental rights of the passengers. thank you very much for your collaboration and the good spirit in which this debate has been conducted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 27 october, at 12.30 p.m.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i agree with and support the report by mrs iotova on the report on the work of the european ombudsman for 2010. i have read the report of the present ombudsman, mr diamantoure, and i have a personal opinion of his work, and i think he has done a job for which he deserves to be congratulated. i believe that the crisis affecting the european union, and in particular some countries, and the growing democratic deficit, are bound to lead to more violations of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is not just the role of the commission in the institutional structure, it is that more and more policies are being derived from this institution in recent times - and here is a problem - as is shown by the references to mr diamantouros, about which we do not know whether these are manifestations of maladministration or manifestations of deliberate policy that affect the basic rights of citizens. i think a lot of times it's the latter. that is why the complaints have increased against the commission which represents these conservative and, ultimately, undemocratic policies, and i can cite many examples of this. the fact that the number of complaints to the european ombudsman has decreased compared with the previous year does not mean that mr diamantouros is not doing his job well. it means, in my view, that the european ombudsman is also affected by a crisis of credibility, as are all the institutions of the european union, that is, a frustrated european citizen does not consider it appropriate to turn to the european ombudsman when he understands that there is a problem. finally, i think we should give more support to the work of the european ombudsman, and in particular, start informing people about his role and the possibilities for european citizens to turn to the european ombudsman, because the geographical distribution of the reports shows that several countries have a low proportion of complaints.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i too would like to make a positive comment on the report of the european ombudsman on the excellent work he did in 2010 and on mrs iotova's report, which contains sufficient information. in ancient rome there was an orator who said: carthago delenda est. he always wanted to end his speeches with that phrase. and carthage has fallen and been destroyed. what is modern carthage? modern carthage is the attitude of the administration with no respect for the citizens and corruption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. but to instill a spirit of respect in the citizens, you can intervene in the administration to a great extent. in 2010, as the statistics in the report under consideration today show, you received 2,667 complaints from citizens, companies and associations and non-governmental organisations resident or established in the european union. despite the decline observed compared with 2009, i personally believe that the institution has been absorbed into the consciousness of european citizens, who have not, however, as far as i understand, defined the scope of the ombudsman's jurisdiction and have recourse to him for cases outside his remit. i am aware that there are cases in which citizens are unable to define the concept of the principle of subsidiarity, which is the legal basis for the functioning of the union. but even in cases where the ombudsman is approached out of context, i think it is clear that they recognise him as an institution, a refuge in the search for justice. and that's the most important thing. so, mr diamantoureau, from the reports i have just heard, from what i have seen statistically, only 27% of the 744 cases fell within your jurisdiction. but the 63% increase in the number of people who have come to you, that's what gives you the most responsibility. everyone's looking forward to the institution. and i believe that the way you operate the institution will help to restore the confidence of the citizens of europe in a model and in a european union whose credibility is today, because of the economic crisis, in a state of great uncertainty.
mr president, we undoubtedly reached a good result yesterday, which for the first time creates the conditions for turning the page, for starting the way out of the crisis. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it, provided that the decisions taken yesterday on all three major issues are implemented consistently, coherently, swiftly and in solidarity at all levels and by all those involved. there are two essential conditions: the first is to give the people of europe, and particularly those who are hard-pressed and facing upheaval in their daily lives, hope and prospects. and that can only happen if we make a bold shift towards growth. the second condition for success is to make a change in the method we use. we must put behind us the intergovernmental logic that has exacerbated and extended the crisis. we want your contribution, mr president of the commission and mr president of the council, to make the european council realise that the european parliament is not a think tank to put ideas forward, but a powerful institution with a role and responsibilities at all stages of the process.
mr president, i have listened carefully to the statements of the president of the council and the president of the commission. i agree that the race to achieve goals is a marathon and not a sprint. the decisions of the session are, in theory, a step towards protecting the euro. but the sustainability of my country's debt depends not only on the 'laundering' but also on the pace of economic growth and the creation of surpluses in the long term, which is not evident if the decline in every growth element from the implementation of the austerity programme continues. the single currency in europe has created prospects and has drastically reduced capital losses resulting from exchange rates. it is a symbol of our strength, provided we all work towards growth and the creation of new jobs. this can only be done, of course, by elevating politics above the markets and the banks, whose intangible transactions created the crisis.
in writing. the report also calls for the immediate release of all children who have been abused, including children who have been raped, and for the immediate release of all children who have been raped. and this silence, firstly, encourages the criminal to continue his action, secondly, prevents justice from acting and suppressing it, and thirdly, and most importantly, the child continues to be abused with uncertain consequences on his life, health and personality, while it is clear that the consequences of this crime affect the child's later life and therefore the future society. studies suggest that between 10 and 20 percent of children are sexually abused. these numbers are frightening. an approach aimed at addressing the root causes of the problem, aiming at combating crime, must be chosen and followed. a society that values vulnerable individuals such as children should make a determined effort to create a culture in which child sexual abuse and exploitation are not tolerated. the report i voted for is in that spirit.
in writing. the eu-australia agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers, which i voted in favour of, takes account - to a satisfactory degree - of many of the initial concerns raised by the european parliament in may 2010. the european union understands that it cannot prohibit the collection, storage and use of pnr data by third countries, as they can themselves determine the requirements for persons to enter their country. therefore, the eu can only decide whether the conditions for the transfer of such data are in line with eu data protection standards. the new agreement meets eu data protection standards but has a primary focus on combating terrorism. the agreement will increase the safety of citizens, provide legal certainty for air carriers and guarantee privacy. the council now has the final say on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. egypt and syria are going through a critical period of democratization which involves significant problems and challenges. the victims of 9 october, during a peaceful demonstration organized by coptic christians to protest the attack on a coptic church in aswan, demonstrate in the worst possible way that the path to democratization, to tackling religious discrimination, to establishing effective criminal sanctions against religious discrimination and to restoring normal social life is not an easy one. the european parliament, in its resolution, sends a message of solidarity to the egyptian people at this difficult time for the democratization of the country, strongly condemns the killing of demonstrators in egypt and calls on the authorities to ensure full respect for all fundamental rights, including freedom of association, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, conscience and thought for all egyptian citizens.
the debate on this subject is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 november 2011 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs emma mcclarkin, on behalf of the ecr group, on the implementation of the professional qualifications directive - report: [com/2024 (ini) ] (a7-0373/2011)
madam president, in the current economic recession, strengthening the mobility of workers between the countries of the union will make a significant contribution to tackling the employment crisis in terms of the longterm unemployed and those who are high on the unemployment list, but at the same time it will contribute to a more general and more competitive internal market. in this context, it is necessary to modernise the system for the recognition of professional qualifications by linking formal education with non-formal practical learning, after first identifying, assessing and recognising skills in this context. this is a way of helping those from low income groups who for socio-economic reasons have not had the opportunity to study and access the formal education system. i believe that such policies will contribute to growth, to the promotion of knowledge, to combating unemployment and poverty, and to ensuring the social cohesion that we so badly need today.
member of the commission. - madam president, mrs figueiredo said just now that we should create jobs, as did mrs le grip and, as i have noted, mrs łukacijewska and mrs jazłowiecka. it is because we think in the context of the single market act, which is an agenda for new growth, that mobility is one of the tools, one of the levers of this new growth which citizens need, that we are working today on the question of vocational qualifications. i would like to begin by thanking you and then say, in connection with the business card that many of you have mentioned, that i believe very much in this tool. in fact, in the early days of my appointment, many of you alerted me to this option. optional card for professionals, mandatory for national authorities, it will certainly be, if we succeed, a simplification - mrs vergnaud used that word - a reduction of time and above all, for professionals, a right to more efficient, faster treatment, thanks to the expertise of imi and, i say to mrs regner and mrs klass, who have spoken about objectivity and transparency, i think that through this system we can achieve more efficiency, more speed, and also more transparency and objectivity on the real qualifications of professionals. i would also like to say to mr pirillo that this is also a matter of speeding up the mobility of health professionals, while at the same time preserving the safety to which patients and those who use health professionals are entitled. mrs turunen also mentioned the issue of the security to which citizens are entitled. mr cabrnoch and mr aylward both mentioned continuing training. we are going to propose at least an obligation to report on what the member states do in the field of continuing training. mr obermayr raised an important point, namely the issue of brain drain. i think that in some countries, which are in difficulty compared to others, mobility could be a problem and that is why, mr obermayr, we need a framework for cooperation, a framework for this question of mobility and the recognition of professional qualifications. we need - let me tell you - more europe in this area, not less europe. that's my belief. mr batten, to whom i say that this text is not ideological, has mentioned, like mrs ford, the singular or banished case with which we are all familiar. without going into detail, i would just like to point out that the directive contains very clear obligations, particularly for doctors, relating to language skills and therefore the member states must objectively and rigorously use the tools contained in this directive to take measures and verify competence and capacity, even if in this specific or banned case it is not clear that there is a link between the problem that has arisen and the language proficiency test. in any case, i would like to say to mrs vergnaud, who said 'mobility is not an anecdote', and to president harbour, that it is not an anecdote. it is a major point within the big market which is our common space of economic and social life and i think that with good supervision, good verification, facilitation of all these recognitions of qualifications through the tools we are talking about and using the internet, we can achieve a greater level of growth. finally, mrs gebhardt, president harbour, mrs mcclarkin herself, mr kožušník and mrs irigoyen all spoke of the regulated professions and their number, and the problem of the possible reduction of these professions. i would like to say my conviction a second time. the question is not whether the number of regulated professions is too high or not high enough, but whether regulation in countries with very many and very strict regulations of these professions is a disproportionate barrier to the proper functioning of the single market. i intend to bring more transparency into this debate by asking all member states to notify all the professions they regulate and to engage in an objective examination of why they believe such regulation is necessary and proportionate. and after we get the answers, we'll do a benchmarking, a comparison of all the results of this exercise. i think that the directive on professional qualifications already makes it possible to ensure this mobility of professionals between the member states which regulate and those which do not regulate a specific profession. it offers solutions to ensure the equivalence of qualifications, a proposal which we will put on the table, informed by your report. that is why i conclude, mrs mcclarkin, by thanking you very sincerely, and all those who have worked with you, for the importance of the report you have presented today and the usefulness it will have for the commission in its legislative proposal of 20 december.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 november 2011 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches on important political issues.
madam president, before the new government in greece took office, commissioner rehn had criticised mr papandreou's decision to hold a referendum and had asked for written guarantees. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the country, and the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the country. the referendum was cancelled after intense political reactions in greece for reasons related to the rescue of the country's european perspective. mr papandreou was forced to resign, however, and under the threat of non-payment of the 6th instalment, despite the fact that this instalment was explicitly agreed at the summit on 26 october 2011 and despite the heavy sacrifices made by the greek people. and while mr papandreou had received a vote of confidence, he was forced to hand over the premiership and now the government includes far-right politicians. a similar scene developed in italy. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. we also wonder whether the deep crisis in europe has led some political and economic elites to take the view that democracy, under present conditions, is an unnecessary luxury. we do not belong to the old political system, but the liberation of any society from it is a matter for the citizens themselves.
mr president, in greece we now have a government which enjoys broad support in parliament and among the people. it has been shown that despite the difficulties, the vast majority of the greek people support remaining in the euro and implementing an effective reform programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the troika must address weaknesses in the programme implemented, such as the subterranean planning of privatisations, the social impact of unemployment far below forecasts and the freezing of economic activity resulting from the complete lack of liquidity. all this can be done within the framework of the existing budgetary objectives with tools: spending cuts, erdf funds and money for recapitalising banks.
mr president, the last few days have been extremely difficult for the eurozone: two governments changed in greece and italy and three economies the italian, spanish and french saw their borrowing rates rise to record levels. the commission's communication, published just last thursday, on economic forecasts for the next two years, begins with the dramatic finding that the recovery of the european economy has stopped and, at the same time, eurostat has found that unemployment in the european union as a whole is rising and reaching 10.2%. the euro area is undoubtedly at the most difficult juncture in its history, and we must all be honest. we have two paths ahead of us: the first is the lonely road, the road of the admission of failure, the road fed by the horror of the press and by those who never believed in europe. the other is that of meeting the challenges we now share, the path of mutual trust and effort, the path which the founding fathers of the european union taught us and which we can and must continue to follow today. it is the tried and tested community road to the prosperity and progress of our countries.
in writing. the demographic change is undoubtedly a major challenge to which the regions must respond, and will be even more so in the future. the ageing of the population, the desertification of the countryside by its young population and the extreme pressures on large urban centres are just some of the aspects of the phenomenon. through the structural funds, €30 billion is available to regions for actions linked to demographic change over the period 2007-13. in this context we must look for ways of making the best and most efficient use of these resources. the challenges posed by demographic change cannot, however, be addressed by a single eu policy. action is needed not only in the field of employment and infrastructure, but also in the field of education, health care, social services, social innovation, immigration policy, reconciliation of family and working life. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. only through coordinated action can we shape integrated responses to multidimensional problems such as demographic change.
the first item on the agenda is the vote on the urgent request from the council for a draft council decision on the adoption by the european union of a declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana (c7-0121/2011 08202/2011 2010(0392) nle)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr frédéric daerden, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion (2011/2052 (ini)) (a7-0370/2011)
<written>
madam president, we have before us an excellent text. it's the right initiative at the right time. frédéric daerden has done an excellent job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. it describes everything as problems, but it also describes solutions. three issues: the first is the horizontal social clause. secondly, economic governance. thirdly, a minimum wage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want legislation, commissioner, we want commitments, we want social indicators to be introduced right alongside economic indicators. if all this is not done, then frédéric daerden's excellent exhibition will remain a dead letter, a 'dead nature', what we call in the theatre a 'tableau vivant'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i would like to express my personal anguish and concern about the social situation which is developing and intensifying both in my country, greece, and in most of the member states, as also highlighted by the international labour organisation and reflected in all the social and economic indicators: the rapid increase in unemployment, particularly among young people, 80 million of our fellow citizens threatened by poverty, a phenomenon which is growing daily, the dramatic deterioration of living conditions and the unequal distribution of the tax burden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. while the macroeconomic stability objectives may be necessary and a painful effort to achieve fiscal adjustment may be required, the commitments we have all made together in the europe 20-20 strategy to combat poverty and increase quality employment cannot and must not be undermined. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. mr president, the figures and statistics in the report on the state of poverty in the eu are a clear illustration of the problem. youth unemployment has soared in the eu since the economic crisis, exceeding 20% and reaching critical levels in all member states. let me add to that some figures from my country, greece. according to a recent study: 60% of greeks say they live in fear that they may one day wake up poor. 50% believe that poverty can be caused by a random event, such as illness or being laid off in old age. the so-called '€700 generation' is a subject of study for modern sociologists and economists. everyone wonders how they manage! as the report states, the number of workers without jobs at european level has increased significantly, 8% of workers are facing poverty and 22% of workers are at risk of poverty. these numbers should be particularly concerning given that the arab spring was triggered by young people's discontent and their frustration with their leaders who did not offer them a future. if the situation does not change, social conflicts will be inevitable.
member of the commission. - that is precisely why i said that parliament is now not only in a position to give an assent, but also has a codecision power. so parliament will be able to decide with the council. i do not know whether there was a majority or not, but in 2008 it was still the council that decided to eliminate planting rights. so the council, with its legislative power, will of course be able to come back to the subject. i am personally open to this question being discussed and if we can make a link between certain wine-growing areas, the quality of the wine and planting rights, i am ready for this question to be discussed again.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. firstly, the future cohesion policy aims to be very closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy in order to support and promote the objectives set out therein, including through targeted investment in the regions. in this context, we have proposed that priorities should be set, but that these should be chosen by the regions themselves. but in view of the need for a concentrated use of resources, particularly in the more developed regions, we have just proposed that a minimum allocation should be made to certain areas. in the field of energy efficiency and energy saving, for example, we believe that in the more developed regions at least 20% of the available budget from the erdf should be used for this purpose. a further 60% is to be used to promote small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation. but these are the frameworks within which the regions can move. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the development of the community's policies. i think that this will not be a problem for most regions.
member of the commission. - to be honest, i don't know of any region that is already 100% renewable energy today. the overall european target is 20%, so that those regions which are perhaps already at 40 or 50% will also have to contribute to improving or achieving this rate. but i think that research activities in this area can also be counted towards the renewable energy issue.
member of the commission. − innovation is a central element of the reform of the common agricultural policy and innovation in agriculture and the rural environment will be supported not only by the common agricultural policy through the rural development programme, which includes measures that support innovative investment, but also social innovation through the leader programme, which will be strengthened; the commission will also propose a european innovation partnership for agriculture, the agri-food sector and the rural environment. research policy, the european innovation partnership and the rural development programme will therefore enable us not only to find solutions in the scientific field but also to apply them in practice, on farms or in other economic activities in rural areas. the budget is there for this, as are the legislative proposals, since the reform of the common agricultural policy is already on the table in the council and parliament, and the communication on the european innovation partnership for the agricultural sector will be published by the commission in the coming weeks.
member of the commission. − within the proposed european social fund regulation the key minimum percentage concerns social inclusion: to devote at least 20% to projects related to social exclusion in direct support of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion and the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that, in a way, europe 2020 and the mff are very closely connected. in a way their credibility also depends on each other. if we just speak about the need for more social exclusion projects and fighting poverty in europe without really supporting it, and without really working very closely in an alliance with the member states and other stakeholders to implement it, i believe we would have a credibility problem and a lack of efficiency. even so, we have a very difficult task ahead, and this is just the minimum of eu funds which we believe is absolutely necessary to devote to such causes. every member state has a to-do list in this area. there are obviously some with much greater levels of material deprivation, but there is an issue everywhere concerning social inclusion and more social cohesion. that is why i believe this is absolutely the right way to go.
member of the commission. - mrs schrödter, if i understand the term 'mainstreaming' correctly, you are referring to the extent to which the basic principles of energy efficiency, climate protection, etc. are applied to other projects. i would say, firstly, that it is certainly a criterion which is taken into account in the assessment of the major projects which we are going to approve. secondly, we will try to ensure that these principles are included in the partnership agreements as a kind of red thread or green thread, so that the local and regional administrations, when assessing projects to be submitted or already submitted, also assess these effects, such as the effects on climate change.
member of the commission. − i believe civil society and ngos will have a strong role to play, as before, in the design, development and implementation of many esf projects. however, we understand that in the past there have been difficulties with access and implementation, and that is why we have made a great effort to simplify things. i believe this will particularly benefit the relatively small beneficiaries – smaller-scale projects – which i think are important if we want to make use of the esf resources for social inclusion.
member of the commission. - mr karim, there will be no duplication of effort, since the greening of the first pillar aid, which the commission is now proposing, does not affect the agri-environmental measures which are financed under the rural development programme and which are contracted. the rural development programme will therefore be implemented and the current contracts will be financed until the end of the budget period, i.e. end of 2013. then, from 2014, in the new rural development programme, member states will be able to continue to apply agri-environmental measures as the budget of this programme will remain the same. what we are proposing with greening the first pillar is a comprehensive european approach with three simple measures which do not affect what exists in the rural development programme, namely agri-environmental measures, which are specific to one region or another. this does not affect the continuation of the financing of this type of measures, either in terms of budget or in terms of the possibilities for the member states.
member of the commission. - listen, here the commission has done its duty as for the period 2014-2020 it has made a budget proposal which proposes to maintain a consistent budget for the common agricultural policy, and at the same time it has already made legislative proposals for the common agricultural policy for the period after 2013. but the process is co-decision and now the council, together with parliament, and of course the commission, will have to be able to take a final decision in time to prepare the framework for the future common agricultural policy after 2014. but the uncertainty is not due to a lack of responsibility on the part of the commission, which has already put both the budget proposal and the legislative proposal on the table. and again, i have been very clear from the start: the rural development budget remains secured in the commission's proposals and in the legislative proposals that the commission has put on the table, and also gives the possibility to member states who wish to continue to apply agri-environmental measures. from this point of view, until the end of 2013, everything is clear. from 1 january 2014, everything will be clear once the council and parliament have taken a decision on the basis of the legislative proposals that the commission has already made.
i would like to say to you, mr cioloş, that greek farmers are facing longstanding problems which have multiplied because of the economic crisis and because of the austerity policy of the memorandum which is being applied in greece. the commission's proposals for direct financing to greek farmers provide for a reduction of between 5% and 9% in the next period. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural sector is not affected by the crisis. i would ask you, commissioner, are you prepared to ask for the amounts of direct subsidies for farmers in greece and other countries facing economic problems to be revised upwards, without reducing subsidies in other countries? in other words, are you prepared to increase the overall budget of the common agricultural policy?
member of the commission. - mr. chountis, i don't know where you got this information about a 59% discount according to you...
reduction of 5 to 9%, not 59%.
member of the commission. - mr chountis, it is a reduction which is proposed for some member states but which does not exceed 6% compared to the current period. this reduction was proposed to finance the increase in direct payments in member states where the average direct payment per hectare is much lower than the european average. i do not have the exact figure in mind for greece, but direct payments per hectare are on average over eur 350 and can even reach eur 400, whereas in member states such as the baltic states, for example, direct payments per hectare are currently under eur 150. in latvia, they are even less than 100 euros. we are proposing a rebalancing, but one which i think is acceptable because it amounts to less than 6% - as i said - compared with the present period; and this reduction is not happening overnight. the commission proposes a transitional period to allow for this reduction to be phased in until 2018. it is a principle of the european union, the principle of solidarity, and also the principle of fairness, and it is on the basis of this principle that we have proposed this rebalancing. once again, we have made sure that this reduction is not too drastic or too severe, so that the farmers concerned are not irreparably affected.
mr president, the commissioner did not answer my question. all of this i understand, but what i'm asking is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to change this amount in view of the special economic situation in greece and other countries? and i put to you the question that might concern mr. andor: in other questions on industrial relations, greece is treated as a special case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. we usually refer to demographics as the problem. but the fact that people will enjoy life longer is obviously not a problem. the real problem is low fertility. and the cause, beyond the modern lifestyle, is the economic insecurity and fear people feel about having and maintaining a large family. and how can it not be so when in the european union today more than one in three - 31.3% to be exact - of large families are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. so that's the big challenge. the adaptation of the cohesion fund at community level and of the operational programmes at national level to help families. support for large families. the promise of social discounts, cuts in child benefits is unacceptable. this commitment, this social contract with the large family is the most secure safety net for preserving social cohesion today, for solving the demographic problem, and it is even more important in countries like greece, where citizens are suffering unprecedented and dramatic cuts in their social benefits because of the economic crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs westphal's report and i agree with the rapporteur that demographic change in the eu, which will bring about radical changes in the political, social and economic situation in europe, is a fact and that in this context we must see the opportunities that these developments bring for europe. it should be noted that the demographic change will have a particularly tangible effect on the regions and rural areas, as the phenomenon of young people moving from rural areas to urban centres is already being observed. i agree with the rapporteur that regions and cities need to develop their own strategies, both at national and regional level, so that demographic change is not a threat but an opportunity for europe.
in writing. open sales and credit default swaps (cds) are inextricably linked to the financial crisis we are experiencing. it is now known that these are practices which have been abused by speculators to the detriment of the economies of the member states. i voted against the report because, although it takes some steps to control these destructive 'economic instruments', it is in fact inadequate and politically reckless, since it comes to a compromise with financial interests. the commission has already taken a number of important steps to ensure that the rules are more stringent and that the procedures for open sales are more transparent. given the disastrous role played by these financial products and the associated speculative practices, what is needed is a ban on them, not just stricter regulation.
in writing. the report on the updating of the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops, which i voted in favour of, is moving in the right direction as it adapts to the current needs of users and the market. reducing the administrative burden and simplifying the questionnaires will allow more complete data to be collected on the volume of production, products and their cultivation on the european market. the collection of reliable data has a two-fold positive effect, on the one hand helping to make good decisions on demand, production and diversification of european agricultural products to make them more competitive and on the other informing farmers and agricultural cooperatives on how to make the best use of their land. in fact, for greece, a country with a rather strong presence of the primary sector in the economy, improving these statistics is useful.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs nedelcheva's report on the use of statistics on permanent crops, as i believe that they constitute a reliable basis for taking sound decisions on agricultural production and the european market. i agree with the rapporteur on the need to reduce the administrative burden associated with the production of statistics and with her amendments to the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. i voted against the report, as well as the other two related reports (březina a7-0340/2011 and březina a7-0358/2011) because not only are no solutions being promoted towards the abolition of nuclear energy, but, on the contrary, the use of nuclear energy and the funding of related research are being promoted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main reason for the negative vote is based on the firm and overall position against nuclear weapons. unfortunately, the report reproduces the distorted view of the usefulness of nuclear energy for economic reasons and to combat climate change. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. it also promotes the need for the union to 'lead the way' in this area. on the contrary, the appropriate financing, particularly in the present crisis, is that of sustainable and renewable development which is genuinely compatible with environmental and social needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a new consumer strategy because i think it is moving in the right direction for consumer protection. the importance of informing consumers of their rights and of safeguarding food safety is emphasised. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for better consumer protection in the financial services and food sectors, as we spend a large part of our income on food. the consumer agenda is a key tool for consumer protection and for meeting the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. the economic importance of online gambling is constantly growing, covering almost half of the total betting market. member states are solely responsible for the legislation surrounding the sector. it is positive that the eu recognises the specific nature of this market in view of the risks it entails in relation to consumer protection and the fight against organised crime. the creutzmann report proposes a number of effective measures to eliminate illegal supply and to strengthen consumer protection. despite the positive provisions of the report, i voted against it as it leaves open the possibility of deregulating/liberalising the online gambling market. this not only effectively cancels out the above proposals but also increases the opportunities for illegal practices such as match-fixing, illegal betting cartels, money laundering, underage betting, etc.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, but i differed in paragraph 44 in favour of the proposal on the financing of social projects through lotteries. the market for electronic games is one of the largest in the eu. it is noted that there are currently around 15000 gambling websites operating. over 85% of them are unlicensed and the annual turnover of this market is estimated at eur 10 billion. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the competition rules to the market in electronic money. the fragmentation of its rules of operation according to the national priorities of each member state thus creates different legal frameworks and divergent and often contradictory policies. and a market governed by complex and fragmented rules is a market prone to financial crime and fraud. the recent experience of match-fixing proves it. the report is therefore moving in the right direction, stressing that match-fixing and any action which offends sport can and must be tackled more effectively at european level.
in writing. the ep report on bee health and beekeeping, while noting the decline in bee colonies and the effects on pollination, the need to control bee diseases and the general monitoring of bee health, does not, however, prohibit the use of pesticides for which there are direct reports of adverse effects on bee health. it does not oppose the prohibition of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms either for human consumption or for animal feed. the common agricultural policy is based on the principle of safeguarding the profits of the large business groups operating in this sector. the lack of drugs to combat bee diseases cited in the report is due to the fact that in a capitalist economy companies cannot be forced to do research in areas where there is not much profit. this contradiction can only be resolved by the socialisation of the basic means of production and central planning of the economy, with popular power that will exploit both agricultural and livestock production and research for the people's welfare.
in writing. the simon report is based on the commission's proposal for the forthcoming revision of the state aid package for services of general economic interest. these services are considered to be of particular importance to all citizens, but without state intervention they would be provided inadequately or not at all. the report presents the overall objective of the reform as being to enhance the contribution that sgeis can make to the wider european economic recovery. it also rightly states that citizens need high-quality public services, and in particular social services that mitigate the social impact of the crisis. unfortunately, while the report successfully recognises the importance of the public service for citizens, the guidelines it gives for its operation fall within the framework of the anti-social eu2020 strategy. in this way, the operation and financing of the sgeis are to the maximum extent determined by the provisions on non-distortion of competition and their role is clearly undermined. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr simon's report because i believe that services of general interest not only play a decisive role for individual citizens, but are also of enormous importance for the well-being of society as a whole. these are services which the state or the state authorities consider to be of particular importance to all citizens. these services make a significant contribution to economic efficiency and competitiveness and enhance social, economic and territorial cohesion in the eu. it is important, however, to provide guarantees for the correct application of the rules so that these undertakings, which are entrusted with the provision of public services, are able to fully implement the tasks assigned to them.
in writing. the economic crisis affecting many member states is not only preventing the reduction of poverty and social exclusion but is, on the contrary, leading to a worrying deterioration. it is significant that the eu, although one of the richest regions in the world, has more than 80 million people at risk of poverty, 30% of whom are children. in countries particularly affected by the crisis, such as greece, poverty threatens one third of the population when the community average is well below. the report, which i voted in favour of, recognises that under the current circumstances europe, despite its commitments, will not be able to meet its strategic target of reducing the number of citizens at risk of poverty by 20 million by 2020. it therefore calls on the commission to increase and better target the funding of programmes aimed at combating poverty and on the member states, which is also an important issue for greece, to strengthen social health, care and education services to bridge the skills gap, promote social inclusion of individuals and combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. we oppose the european parliament's report on the so-called fight against poverty and social exclusion because it represents a brazen challenge to workers, who are condemned to poverty, misery and destitution by the eu's policy and the bourgeois governments of the member states. eu statistics themselves show that since 2009, the number of people living below the poverty line in europe has jumped from 80 million in just two years to 116 million, with a continuing trend of increase. poverty is not the result, but the condition of existence of the capitalist system. poverty is not only a consequence of the capitalist crisis, it exists and grows under the conditions of capitalist development. the eradication of poverty cannot be achieved without the overthrow of the anti-people policy of the eu, of the governments and parties of capital that support it, without the overthrow of the economic and political power of the monopolies. poverty will be eradicated permanently only when the producers of wealth seize power so that they can enjoy the wealth they produce.
the rapid political developments in ireland, portugal, spain, italy, the eu in general and greece, culminating in the three-party coalition government of the black front consisting of social democrats, neoliberals and the far right, are at the "will" of the eu and capital and mark an even more savage and barbaric attack by capital on the rights and lives of the working class, the popular strata and the youth. typically, with its programmatic statements and anti-people budget, the three-party government of capital in greece unleashes a new storm of anti-people measures, turning the lives of the people into hell: thousands of layoffs in the private and public sector - 30,000 public employees are being laid off by the end of 2011 alone with a perspective of 200,000 layoffs in the next three years - new sweeping cuts in wages and pensions, new cheers for workers, even greater cuts in social spending. the case of greece proves that the policy of capitalist restructuring of the eu and capital, as well as the policy of bourgeois governments, is a strategic choice of the monopolies, applied in a uniform way in all eu member states, whether they have a memorandum or not, whether they are in the support mechanism or not, whether they have deficits and debts or not, whether they are borrowers or debtors. despite their sharp contradictions, the bourgeois governments in the eu member states, the parties of capital, are united when it comes to crushing the rights of the working class and the popular strata, to burden them with the burdens of the capitalist crisis. for the workers, the only pro-people way out is the reorganization of the workers' movement, the organization in the workplaces and in the popular neighborhoods, the building of the popular alliance to overthrow the power of the monopolies, to break from the eu, to cancel the debt, with popular power and economy. the president shall accept a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8))
mr. tussa, you know i consider you a friend. the party to which i belong has four ministers in the new government of greece. you called it right-wing extremist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because i, in the party to which i belong, do not know any extreme right-wingers, as i suppose you do not know any hooded men and none of those who are holding locusts and destroying greece, and i believe you do not know them regardless of whether they say they belong to your party, please show me someone on the extreme right in my party.
i would like to add that my political intervention was not personal, but that people also have a role in shaping both parties and their policies. let us not exaggerate, the planet and europe are not so big that we cannot know that the president of the greek socialist party, mr george karatzaferis, who was also a member of the european parliament, is one of the champions of the military junta in greece in the period 1967-1974, one of the darkest periods in our country.
madam president, it seems evident now that political time is often different from real-world deadlines. we are talking about 2015, when it is clear that it is very doubtful any agreement enforced after that would give us a chance to address this huge problem. we should ensure emissions peak by then or earlier, not start deciding what to do after that. what we can do in durban is to commit to a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. if we do not do that, it is clear that it will be difficult to avoid the collapse of the negotiations with the developing countries on a legally binding agreement. as the commissioner said, we are not the problem, but if we do not commit to a second period under kyoto, we will become part of the problem. we will become the problem. commissioner, you said that canada, russia and japan are also not committing. we know that canada did not respect its commitment; it increased emissions by 26%. russia is a very peculiar participant, among the annex 1 countries, and japan is the only one of the real annex 1 participants that did not commit to a second period. so what was the news that made us change our decision? briefly, could you give a commitment, commissioner, that you are not going to support a political agreement, but you will stick to a legally binding agreement for kyoto?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank president caldeira for presenting the 2010 annual report of the european court of auditors, which contains many new elements such as the overall error rate in payments and the new chapter assessing the commission's performance. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, the pressure on public finances has never been greater and the efficient use of public money is more important than ever. given that cohesion policy has been at the centre of the debate on the error rate and its impact on the european union budget, it is vital to highlight what is wrong and what is not: the error constitutes a transaction which is not in full compliance with the applicable regulations; a mistake does not mean that resources have been lost or wasted, or that fraud has been committed. moreover, the data show that two thirds of the errors are concentrated in three of the 27 member states and in seven of the 455 programmes. this means that, with a targeted effort by the commission and by specific member states, the error rate will be significantly reduced. i am sure we will all agree that in the next programming period in cohesion policy, there should be a greater degree of simplification, transparency, accountability and controls that combine efficiency and cost which will ultimately help us to improve the protection of the european union's financial interests.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, the original idea for the european heritage label was born in 2005 as a transnational initiative aimed at highlighting sites related to european history, the creation and the role of the european union and the values on which it was founded. in this distinctive form, the european cultural heritage label has so far been awarded to 64 sites in the member states of the european union and switzerland. these spaces reflect a wide range of symbolic concepts that demonstrate the intangible values and tangible cultural assets of the common european culture. in november 2008, the european council expressed the intention that the label should be an official action of the european union. the lisbon treaty would complete the institutionalisation of the european heritage label in its european dimension by means of the co-decision procedure. the european commission's text was notified to the european parliament in march 2010. a few days later, i was asked to draw up the report on this subject, which was adopted by a large majority here in strasbourg a year ago, marking the start of negotiations with the other european institutions last december to establish the final legislative framework. the result of this long but extremely constructive process, based on my excellent cooperation with the representatives of the commission and the council and on the wise guidance of the chairman of the committee on culture and, of course, on my excellent cooperation with the other shadow rapporteurs, is the legislation which will be put to your judgment tomorrow. i would like to thank once again, and from this position, all those who have taken part in this joint effort to create a label with a broader focus, clearer criteria, a more rational approach and, above all, with continuous evaluation compared to the previous old label of the transnational phase. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very important one. we had to treat the old label with respect, but also with a critical attitude in order to give the new one the credit it deserved, to ensure its viability, and to guarantee clear criteria, transparent selection procedures and regularity in its application. we have accepted, in principle, as the ultimate criterion the symbolism of the institution, that is, the choice of sites to be marked not as monuments of aesthetics, but as three-dimensional representations of ideas and values on which european civilization and the creation of the european union were based. the main concern is the educational character of the sites, which are intended for the younger generation, the networking of the sites, but also the promotion of tourism. the main issues that concerned us were the following: the possibility of changing the title, in order to clearly state its identity as an institution of the european union, was unfortunately not accepted by the culture committee at the initial stage, with the result that the title of the old intergovernmental mark was preserved. however, our contributions to the commission's text were important, and here i owe a great deal to my colleagues in the committee on culture, but also to the constant exchange of views with the commission and council representatives at the two formal meetings and at more informal meetings which supported the co-decision process. we have first of all ensured that the european parliament is equally involved in the formation of the group of experts. secondly, the european parliament must be kept informed by the european commission at every stage of the institution's implementation process. thirdly, full transparency at all stages of the institution's validity from initial selection at national level and the possibility for a member state to challenge applications that affect its vital priorities with the possibility of withdrawing the label from premises that do not meet the criteria for their promotion. we changed the frequency of selection of sites from one to two, we extended the committee of experts by one member to include the committee of the regions in the selection and evaluation, and finally we succeeded in postponing the extension of the institution to other countries before the first evaluation of its operation, because we considered that we wanted the european heritage label to be first and foremost a prestigious institution which could then be used outside the european union and the european continent as a tool for a peaceful foreign policy. we supported the adoption of thematic sites to encourage cooperation at national, regional and transnational level, using networking as a tool, again with the aim of achieving maximum coherence at european level. the first reading by the council is most satisfactory to me because it has incorporated most of my amendments and interventions. even if we have some objections in certain areas, we consider the final text to be very important and we believe that the european heritage label can heal our wounded and wounded european cohesion, especially in the period we are living through.
mr president, i too would like to thank mrs palia delis for the very important work she has done with this report, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, mrs sanchez-schmid of our group, and all the others who have worked on this report. the importance of the european heritage label, as mr correia has said, is two-fold and two-way. it highlights the diversity of europe while, at the same time, reinforcing the feeling that we live and share common historical memories and common memories. it also has a considerable added value, since it is intended, especially for young people, to foster a common european consciousness, the notion that europe is a whole with different origins but identical references. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way, and we must not forget that the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. the lessons learned from these historical mistakes have also played a decisive role in inspiring and shaping the european union as it is today. the sign also offers a unique opportunity to become more culturally extroverted, to show our history, our culture to the rest of the world, to make use of monuments that when we visit them make us wonder and regret why they have not received the exposure they deserve. as far as the wider benefits are concerned, i think there is absolutely no doubt that the label contributes to the growth of cultural tourism, with economic benefits in addition to others. and we must not forget that economic growth, especially in this time, in this time of crisis, in this time when the big issue is economic growth, i repeat, an important response can also come from culture. it already represents about 3% of european gdp and its potential is much greater. i am sure that the european heritage label, with the positive contribution of all of us, will make a positive contribution.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you all for your support for this initiative. as the decision establishing the european heritage label will, i hope, be formally adopted tomorrow, we will have to work together to make this new action a long-term success. the remainder of this year and the whole of 2012 will be dedicated to the preparatory work for the implementation of the new label. this preparatory work will consist mainly of setting up the various structures needed for the selection and monitoring procedures, preparation of the accompanying documents and preparation of the communication tools. i agree that we should prepare it well and be serious about it. the first selection procedure for the award of the label will then take place in 2013. i would like once again to thank you all for your support and your very hard work. we are looking forward to continuing our excellent cooperation on this file. i would like to thank mrs paliadeli and the successive presidencies who have taken up this file and promoted it through to the final stages.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, i must confess that i did not expect such a turnout at this hour, at 10 o'clock in the evening. i listened very carefully to the comments made by my colleagues in the context of the 'catch the eye' procedure. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations. but culture is not a luxury, the implementation of the label is not going to make use of europe's money, beyond the little that will be needed, mainly to cover bureaucratic and administrative needs. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. we will reward cooperation and this supports cohesion at national, regional and european level. and, of course, the aim is to extend the application of this institution to countries which are about to become members of the european union, as well as to third countries belonging to the european continent and to countries outside europe. we have also been able to see that the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. four years after the first evaluation, we'll see if it can be extended any further. i believe that one of the reasons why we have reached this economic crisis and the crisis of values is precisely because of the reduced importance that the european union has given to culture. i believe that this is the right tool to use to win back the europe of those who envisioned it not only as a difficult economic union but as a cultural union. i am therefore of the opinion that perhaps culture is the only tool that could contribute positively to reversing this great crisis that we are experiencing and which i would like to believe will not lead us into worse times. i thank mrs vassiliou, i thank my colleagues, i thank the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the commission which gave us the original text and the council which agreed during our many months of cooperation to find compromise solutions to issues on which we had no common view. thank you all so much.
mr president, i am afraid that the results of the last summit have not convinced the markets that the operation of the european rescue fund remains clear and convincing. interest rates went up, the euro rate went down, and the stock markets went down, too. although i believe that the proposed measures are moving in the right direction, i am afraid that the use of the basic instrument, namely the issue of new money, which could be used as the capital of the european financial stability fund and, at the same time, as a guarantee by it for the issue of the eurobond, is being avoided. it will also provide incentives for individuals to participate in the programme. i believe that in order to restore the balance in the volume of world money circulation, which has been upset by the issuing of new money by the united states, our union could easily issue new money worth over two trillion euros. this would, i believe, limit the attacks of the so-called markets. in simple terms, mr president, i cannot understand how a mere stockbroker can make money by raising the price of a stock and an entity like the european union cannot do the same.
mr president, i listened carefully to the presidents of the council, the commission and the eurogroup on the economic governance which is deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the euro area and to deal with the ongoing economic crisis. the union, and in particular the countries of the single currency, need a long-term strategy and plan to avoid becoming vulnerable to international crises. economic governance cannot succeed on its own unless it is accompanied by the proper functioning of all the institutions, democratic balance and respect for the institutional responsibilities. the phenomena we have seen with the council taking over everything, and in particular some of its member states, are not in line with the basic principles and values of the union and the lisbon treaty. it is understandable that the big countries have an increased role. however, the union's strength and its importance in the world system derive from the balance between small and large countries and from their unity. the european commission and the european parliament are the necessary and powerful agents to legitimize the union's presence as an area of peace, prosperity and democracy for the benefit of european citizens and the world at large. the crisis in the eurozone, with weak links in some countries such as greece, cannot be dealt with by panic moves and piecemeal decisions. the commission's proposals for the reform of the structural funds, which are the subject of the debate, are not in any way intended to make the community more flexible, but to make it more flexible. the introversion of certain political decisions undermines the common future and the success of the union. the european commission must play its full role under the treaties, and parliament has the right to be informed in good time and to contribute to the adoption of decisions which will effectively deal with the crisis so that they can be democratically legitimized. mr president, it is said that history teaches that it teaches nothing. let the european union not confirm that.
mr president, let me first of all, as did mr gualtieri, wish the new government of mr lucas papademos every success, which is today expected to receive a vote of confidence from the greek parliament, and stress that, in order to succeed, this government, like the government of mario monti, needs our sincere and all-round support, both within our countries and in the european institutions, but it also needs the support of all the european capitals. we are discussing today whether institutional changes are needed, whether the treaties need to be amended, at a time when the debt crisis is developing and widening and growth, according to the commission's figures, is slowing down, threatening a new recession in the european economy. and all this is increasingly being done at the behest and dictation of the markets and increasingly at the expense of the citizens of europe. we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, all the time about the fluctuations in borrowing rates and spreads, but we are not talking enough about the indicators relating to people, we are not talking enough about unemployment, employment, growth, we are not even talking about the very worrying figures in the eurobarometer which record a rapid increase in extremist and nationalist views throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president of the european commission, you can certainly count on our help in promoting the financial transaction tax - we have done so in the past, we will continue to do so today - but we also ask for your own firm stance and support in defending democracy and the rights of the 99% of european citizens, a figure which, as one occupy wall street slogan says, is too big to fail.
in writing. the european globalisation fund, while not the real solution to the problem of unemployment, offers a breathing space for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed and the problems caused to europe's workers by the financial crisis and neoliberal globalisation. it is, however, inexplicable why this is the first request from greece, which has not so far asked for the fund to be activated, given the huge unemployment rates (18.4% official unemployment in august) and despite my repeated remarks. in particular, this report accepts the request for support for the 642 redundant workers in aldi supermarkets. although the greek government asked for a rather low amount, although the question remains whether the relevant resources will be used properly and whether there will be a further request from greece, i voted in favour of the report so that the redundant workers of aldi receive from the fund what they are entitled to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the case of 642 former employees in greece who were made redundant as a result of aldi's withdrawal from the greek market is the first greek request to be mobilised under the european adaptation fund. the mobilisation of the egf shall consist in the provision of one-off individual aid limited in time to support workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. greece, with the second highest unemployment rate in the eu and with continuing job losses, needs to exploit and make the most of the esf by taking on far more cases that meet the criteria set by the fund. moreover, as is apparent from the commission's reply to my question, despite the rapid increase in the number of requests for egf support since the beginning of the financial crisis, the total amount available has not been used up and, at the moment, greece has not requested the mobilisation of the fund in any other cases than the one mentioned above.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs palijadelis' recommendation as i believe that the creation of a european cultural heritage label is a positive initiative to strengthen the sense of belonging of european citizens to the european union, based on shared elements of history and cultural heritage. the proposal establishes new common, clear and transparent criteria for the mark, which will be applied by all participating member states.
in writing. i voted against the report because it opens the way to the privatisation of european railways with very serious consequences for the public interest, transport safety and passenger rights. the report is drawn up with the dominant neoliberal logic and puts profit first, forgetting that it is the states that have financed all the existing infrastructure and that quality and safe mobility is a right of all citizens. further liberalisation of the railway sector, now almost mandatory for all member states, and further separation of services, operation and maintenance are being promoted. the concept of an integrated and safe transport system is thus fragmented and the logic and practices of subcontracting are reinforced, with the result that the rights of workers and passengers are undermined, as well as existing european safety measures. the amendments tabled by the left group, which defended the public nature of the railway sector and the priority of safety over profit, were voted down by the other political groups, thus giving even greater ground to speculation by private groups and the circumvention of the rights of workers and passengers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a single railway area as it aims to secure and enhance the attractiveness of the sector. one of the main reasons for the stagnation of the railways is the many discrepancies in national regulations. to build a competitive eu, it is necessary to improve and coordinate the transport sector at european level so that the results are multiplied and the union's competitiveness is strengthened. in addition, this will ensure and improve employment and improve working conditions in the railway sector through improvements to the current legislation.
in writing. the intervention of the commissioner for climate change left little room for a satisfactory outcome in durban. he more or less said that "achieving a legally binding agreement worldwide" seems like a pipe dream, and that "it is not up to us but up to others". in contrast to this climate of pessimism, those of us who voted for the climate change resolution did so to send a strong political message of will with specific goals: - establish a global, comprehensive, legally binding framework, including a strict timetable for its implementation, to keep global warming below 2°c compared to pre-industrial values; - bridge the 'giant gap' between the ambitions of the parties and the science data, halting dirty development; - reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 by 80-95% compared to 1990 levels; - provide substantial financial and technological assistance to developing countries; - ensure the protection of the world's tropical forests; - end the millions of climate refugees. the economic crisis must not be used as an excuse for a copenhagen-style failure. the climate cannot wait, nor can humanity.
in writing. the resolution on the 2011 report on the eu's responsibility for financing development is moving in a progressive direction. it concludes that the objective of eradicating global poverty requires, above all, a change of policy in industrialized and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty. it also acknowledged the failure of the member states to meet the millennium development goals and to meet their obligations to provide financial assistance to developing countries, particularly those least affected by the global crisis. the resolution seeks to remind member states of the commitments they have made, and unfortunately do not fulfil, in terms of sustainable development and the fight against climate change. the text also expresses serious concern about the phenomenon of purchases of agricultural land by foreign investors with government support, particularly in africa. this practice undermines local food security and is a form of new colonialism. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. the increasing pressure on national budgets due to the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse or pretext for reducing european humanitarian aid. the recent imf estimates of an increase in the number of our fellow citizens living in poverty in the developing world by 23 million in 2012 due to the crisis in the developed world, brings europe to its knees. the eu remains the world's largest donor, however, and the european budget is seeing a €15 billion cut in 2010. at the same time, its mission is not limited to financial aid. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. the european union must therefore monitor, evaluate and intervene in cases which are contrary to the real support and development of the countries which need it. this is a matter which is very much in the interests of the resolution which i voted for.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the sustainability of european cinema is undoubtedly largely dependent on its adaptability to new technologies. in practice, this means a transition from the analogue to the digital age, and such a transition, while necessary, is expensive. the commission notes that the aid granted to the cinema operator is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary. the high financial cost (around eur 100 000 per screen) in a difficult economic period is particularly burdensome for small, regional and local cinemas. the role of the european structural funds in supporting them is therefore crucial. the ep's proposal is clear. the new financial perspective 2014-2020 should provide for an appropriate level of financial support and the existing assistance from the european regional development fund should be extended.
in writing. i voted in favour of the exhibition 'european cinema in the digital age' as it aims to support and preserve the wealth of european cinema and to enable the widest possible access to it by citizens. the european cinema has enormous potential, there are some 30 000 cinemas in the european union. i think it is essential to support the industry to meet the demands of modern technology. the institutions of all the member states must join forces in this process of transition from analogue to digital cinema at national and community level as well as in the public and private sectors, and i believe that the european investment bank can respond positively to this by granting loans at preferential rates.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, the last year has seen a great deal of cooperation between europe and america. the main reason was the economic crisis which is emerging on both sides of the atlantic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the transatlantic economy, including the establishment of a european economic area. so far we have been repressive in our legislation on both sides of the atlantic. with the effort now being made by the delegation for relations with the united states of america, we are beginning to work on some issues together with the congress. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for this reason, commissioner, i would say that we should make use of the tld representatives within the tec, because the legislators, with their respective executive bodies, share responsibility for the supervision and implementation of most of the tec decisions. this would improve euro-atlantic consultations and would certainly strengthen the rules of new technology and emerging economic sectors. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one.
madam president, the summit is taking place against the backdrop of the worsening synchronized world capitalist crisis. this crisis is intensifying the competition between the two main imperialist centres, but also with the emerging economic powers, as to who will be the least affected by the crisis. the open conflict of interests between american, european, russian or chinese monopolies in all fields is manifested at every opportunity and at every international meeting, as recently at the meeting of the group of 20 (g20). the anti-people strategy "europe 20-20" and the reactionary measures of the obama administration show that the two centres of imperialism are today more united than ever in the demand of capital that workers pay for the crisis with starvation wages and the handing over of social infrastructure to the monopolies. the capitalist crisis makes imperialism even more dangerous for the people. the european union, the united states and nato are equally responsible for the war crimes in libya, for the escalation of imperialist interventions in the middle east and north africa. they are jointly undermining the independent palestinian state and are now preparing a new military conflict inspired by iran's nuclear programme. it is clear to us that capitalism can no longer give anything to the world and that is why the spectre of communism is hovering over the whole world. the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
you got it right. i just forgot to add nato. i would like to take this opportunity to refer to the recent statement by the secretary-general of nato, who was very happy that this was the most successful nato operation in history, irrespective of the fact that 60,000 people paid for this war with their lives. and you also know that the international criminal court is going to prosecute nato for this war. in this way it is quite clear what the aims of this war were and who was responsible for these casualties.
the united states is undoubtedly a traditional ally of europe and we must therefore broaden our cooperation in terms of topics and deepen it in terms of politics. i am glad, of course, that the us side is also increasingly recognising the key role played by the european parliament, including in decision-making within the european union. but i think the importance which the united states attaches to the european union could be much greater. we must break away from the prevailing image and we must be honest with ourselves, bearing in mind that summits with the european union are, if i may use that term, a kind of chore for the united states, and this at a time of economic crisis for europe. but let's not forget that we have comparative advantages in many areas that make us an attractive interlocutor for the united states, and not just for the united states, and one of the many examples is developments in the middle east and the arab world. however, i regret to say that the european union has not been able to play and highlight its special role in the region, with the result that other countries, for example turkey, consider themselves, and are considered by the united states, to have a stronger and more important voice in the region than europe. this must change immediately and i believe that the next summit offers a good opportunity in this respect. let me end by stressing that for our cooperation in the important field of security, the agreement on the protection of personal data is a key point for us and in this highly sensitive subject for the european citizen we must respect and emphasize the principles and practices on which our european family is based. we in the european parliament want this to be a priority issue in the summit discussions.
mr president, one of the most important poems by kostas palamas, the world-renowned greek poet of the olympic anthem, is entitled 'the gypsy dozen'. this poem is an ode to the uniqueness of the soul of the members of the roma ethnic group. it symbolizes the man who is not subject to anything, the man who is always on the move, who is always looking for opportunities to create something new, it symbolizes the cosmopolitan. in 21st century europe, roma are unfortunately a minority - as all colleagues have seen - often oppressed and excluded by the societies and state structures within which they live and operate. our own society often ignores or even ignores their rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you again to mrs. járóka for this. with this strategy, we are now setting roma integration as an eu target for 2020. in view of the national programmes for the roma, which we expect this year as a result of this framework, europe must see their social integration as a major stake, and on this point, commissioner, we expect a great deal from the commission. we must in practice seek to eliminate discrimination against them and learn from their instincts to cross national borders within the european union. the protagonist of palamas' poem in 1907 said: 'even if we have a homeland, it reaches as far as the sun reaches its kingdom'.
the first item is the report by mr georgios koumutsakus, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to support the further development of an integrated maritime policy (com (2010) 0494 - c7-0292/2010 - 2010/0257 (cod)) (a6-0163/2011).
president - the next item is the report (doc. the commissioner, the integrated maritime policy is a new policy of the union. a dynamic policy with many possibilities and many promising prospects. the benefits of coordinating and synergistically exploiting the many economic activities associated with the sea are, i believe, obvious. the integrated maritime policy does not only benefit the coastal states. the whole of europe and the european economy benefit, as the network of economic activities linked to the sea is very broad and their impact is directly felt by the whole economy and by large sections of the population. we must not forget that human economic activities at sea and on the coast produce 40% of the gross product of the european union and, according to forecasts, there is still great potential for growth. maritime transport and short sea shipping, fisheries and aquaculture, renewable energy and protection of the marine environment, coastal tourism and development of island regions: coordination and synergy of all this cluster of actions will maximise the potential for sustainable growth, employment and innovation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and now the question arises: will all this be done within the limited amount of eur 40 million until 2012, as provided for in the regulation under discussion? obviously not. but we are talking about a new policy that is in the early stages of implementation and we all know very well that even the longest journeys begin with a first step. what's necessary for the success of the journey, of any journey, and of this one, is that first step be firm and decisive. it must be done with faith and optimism for the success of the final goal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the maritime sector, in particular the maritime sector, in the financial perspective for the period 2014-2021. i would also like to stress the particular importance of the international aspect of the integrated maritime policy and cooperation with third countries in this context. such cooperation will be truly effective when it is based on respect for the international law of the sea and the relevant international treaties, in particular the united nations convention on the law of the sea, which is also an integral part of the community acquis. it is important that all this is clearly stated in the text of the regulation we are voting on. as regards the general objectives, and i would like to mention a few of them, it is important that they include: promoting the development and implementation of integrated maritime and coastal governance; contributing to the emergence of cross-sectoral tools - notably in maritime spatial planning and the common information exchange environment; promoting the protection of the marine environment and biodiversity; supporting the development and implementation of sea-basin strategies; improving and strengthening external cooperation and international policy action; and, finally, supporting sustainable growth, growth and employment, as well as innovation and new technologies in all remote, outlying and concentrated areas of the union. in conclusion, i believe that today we will do our job well. we are voting for a good financial regulation to support a dynamic new union policy. i would like to thank all those who have worked, and there are many of them, to achieve this positive result today. the negotiations and discussions were long, complex and took many months. i would therefore like to emphasize the good cooperation with the commission, the good cooperation with the two council presidencies but, above all, the excellent cooperation and support which i have had from the shadow rapporteurs of all the political groups.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i could paraphrase hemingway and say: 'europe and the sea', because europe is surrounded by the sea and more than half of europeans live within 50 km of the coast. it is clear that the sea is an important factor in community development and development policy, with direct and indirect effects on many citizens of the union. it is estimated that sectors linked to the exploitation of marine resources account for more than 5% of the european union's gross domestic product, excluding tourism income generated by the exploitation of coastal areas. i therefore congratulate mr kumutsakou on the work he has done which complements the commission proposal by offering a complete and balanced proposal for a regulation. i also consider the proposal by mrs patrão neves to be successful. i also see with great sympathy the general policy of commissioner damannakis, which i consider to be substantial and which i believe will lead to better things for europe. i believe that the rapporteur's proposals concerning island and decentralized regions are very useful and that, for the sustainable development of coastal regions and islands, particular attention should be paid to the development of land-sea links. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the marine environment, such as the introduction of a new system of monitoring and control of the quality of the water, the establishment of a european maritime safety agency and the establishment of a european maritime safety agency.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think this is a very good day for the commission. i agree with everybody. all your remarks were very valuable, and i think that this proves that we are running a win-win situation here. nevertheless, since we have only eur 40 million for two years, we have to focus on our priorities for these two years. i would like to emphasise this. we are going to go for the best use of this limited funding. firstly, we are going to try to avoid any duplications and overlaps. this is very important. we are not going to fund projects that are already funded by other services or agencies. secondly, we have to create linkages between different sectors. many of you underlined the need for creating linkages and better cooperation with other agencies, such as the emsa (european maritime safety agency) for transport or environmental agencies or research centres – for example our cooperation with the research services in galway in ireland and in other areas is very important – so that we can multiply the value of our money through this cooperation procedure. we have also to work together with environmental services since the marine strategy framework directive has until now had no funding line for its implementation. we have now earmarked around 10% of our money for environmental policy and for implementing the marine strategy framework directive. i say all this just to persuade you that we are taking a great step forward. to cut a long story short, we have exhausted the resources from our land; we are now turning to the sea and we have to be very cautious because there is a possibility of conflict there – a conflict of interests and various other conflicts. we have to be very cautious, or we are going to destroy the sea and the oceans, as we have done to a certain extent with our land. so we have to be very cautious. we are also going to develop sea-basin strategies. we already have a sea-basin strategy for the baltic. we are going to improve it. in two weeks, we are going to launch the procedure for an atlantic strategy in lisbon and then we have to address strategies for the mediterranean and the black sea. we have already taken the initiatives for these two areas. what will be the area priorities? first, good governance; second, cross-sectoral rules – maritime surveillance, marine knowledge and maritime spatial planning; third, the environment; and fourth, blue growth. blue growth is the effort to give our coastal states the possibility to expand their growth and jobs strategies. this is what we are trying to do, but we also need to focus on some areas where we have not yet achieved good results. i have in mind maritime coastal tourism. we also have to explore the possibilities of sea bottom mapping and exploitation, as we have already mentioned. then of course we have some blue ocean energy projects – not only wind energy, but energy from the sea. we are opening a consultation procedure and we very much welcome your involvement in this procedure. i would to thank everybody, especially the rapporteur, mr koumoutsakos, and the shadow rapporteurs to the committees for their commitment here. i would like to say that we really need this. i hope that we will work together in the future in order to be sure about the next financial perspectives and appropriate funding of the maritime policy. i would like to thank you all, and i rely on parliament to work together on this.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you madam commissioner. i would like to warmly thank all the colleagues who took the floor contributing substantially to today’s discussions – a discussion that is not just important for the present but has a bright future. i would like to thank them for their friendly words. particularly in tough and challenging times, the eu shows with this regulation that it can adopt policies with one objective: economic growth, employment, social cohesion and environmental protection. we can produce good news. mr president, before you took the floor, the chair was occupied by a greek colleague, mrs podimata. in the commission chair we have a very well known greek politician, mrs danamaki, and it happens to be that the rapporteur for this regulation is a greek one. i would like to conclude by saying to all of you that greece can produce good news!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i really welcome this report and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lövin, on her excellent work. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the baltic sea, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the baltic sea. 19% of the world's fisheries are illegal and unregistered, and we in the european union subsidize this activity with 1.1 billion euros every year. i welcome the proposals in this report for technical measures which are necessary to combat illegal fishing and actually to achieve traceability in fishery products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: finally, i would like to mention the issue of the european coastline: i believe that if we do not take this step, we will not be able to change the situation, we will not be able to combat illegal fishing.
in writing. we certainly condemn any crime committed against humanity. we are also in favour of the establishment of a european judicial system, which is based on the rule of law and the rule of law, and of the rule of law, which is based on the rule of law. unfortunately, the way the icc is organised and operates cannot guarantee political impartiality but, on the contrary, reinforces the risk of developing a 'justice' pre-determined by those who enforce it. the resolution also calls for pressure to be exerted on member states to contribute financially to the icc, to implement national legislation on cooperation with the icc and to conclude framework agreements for the enforcement of the court's judgments. the proposals thus target the sovereign rights of member states while at the same time risking the marginalisation of both the un and the security council and the council of the eu by promoting a concentration of powers in the icc and the special envoys to be appointed by the hr. the intention to give the icc the right to intervene in the internal affairs of states on the basis of 'suspicions' and to take 'preventive action' at the risk of promoting other interests is particularly worrying. for all these reasons i voted against.
in writing. the regulation on the eu integrated maritime policy support programme and the european parliament's report on it are aimed at increasing the competitiveness of shipping capital and intensifying the exploitation of shipowners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels, and that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector, and calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is fully implemented. we call on the workers to unite with greater determination with the kke and the class trade union movement, to fight for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies for the liberation from the eu with people's power and economy, so that the ships become people's property and are used for the people's welfare.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr kumutsaku's report because i believe it is moving in the right direction and contributes to a comprehensive and balanced proposal for a regulation on the integrated maritime policy. a holistic approach to the sea, combined with an integrated approach to marine activities, is necessary, with the fundamental objective of maximising the sustainable exploitation of the sea without jeopardising the development of the marine economy and coastal areas or the conservation of marine ecosystems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the eu-us summit on the sidelines of the group of 20 (g20) meeting confirmed the commitment of the two sides to joint efforts to address challenges such as the economic crisis, employment and development, and to consult on peace and security issues. the european parliament calls on both parties to take a global lead in translating these commitments into action. the resolution stresses the need to develop a road map for initiatives to boost employment and restore satisfactory economic growth, particularly in the area of growth and employment, which is of particular importance for greece.
in writing. member states had to comply with the eu telecoms reform package by 25 may 2011. the next step envisaged by this resolution, which i voted in favour of, is the need to preserve the open and neutral nature of the internet in favour of free access to information, which is an important source of innovation and consumer demand. the report also stresses the sensitive issue of consumer protection on the internet, calling for all comparable information to be provided in detail and in a clear way to citizens so that they can choose the best provider for them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the debate on the annexation of protocol vi to the convention on cluster munitions is a serious threat to the joint effort of the 111 un states to limit the proliferation of these munitions. the resolution calls on the eu and its member states not to approve, adopt or ratify this or any protocol allowing the use of cluster munitions prohibited by the convention. it is recalled that cluster munitions pose a serious threat to civilians due to their characteristics of a high lethal trace. unfortunately, they are still being used in conflicts, with a more recent complaint about their use in the case of libya.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution initially because the left group was not even invited to participate in the negotiations on the final motion for a resolution, despite having initially tabled a resolution. the absence of the left euro group from the negotiations is also evident in the final result, since, unfortunately, the resolution does not propose a reduction in vat, since art and culture, in any form, are public goods which should be accessible to all citizens. the resolution therefore essentially, while arguing that member states could be allowed to apply, on a temporary basis, a reduced rate of vat to electronically supplied cultural content services, focuses on the need to develop and strengthen the common market and the digital common market.
in writing. non-discrimination, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women must be the overriding values of the european project. the main objective must be to promote equality between women and men through the effective and effective integration of the gender dimension in all eu policies and activities. i voted in favour of the gustafsson report because it advocates a more holistic and coherent approach to gender mainstreaming in eu policies. it also calls for a practical commitment to carrying out assessments and evaluations of the possible gender impact of existing and planned policies. finally, i would like to reward my colleague eva-britt svensson, the original author of the report, who was unfortunately unable to complete it because of ill health, with my vote in favour. i would also like to highlight her very valuable work in the committee on women's rights and gender equality and her substantial contribution to raising gender equality issues in the european parliament.
in writing. the unregulated fishing by large fleets in the sea areas of eu member states and third countries, which is included in the common fisheries policy, is seriously damaging fish stocks, food security and environmental protection, with painful consequences for the people. the unregulated fishing is inherent in the capitalist system, to maximize the profits of the big business groups. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation, which is a directive which is not yet in force. the strengthening of repressive mechanisms such as the european coast guard, the safe sea net, will not combat illegal fishing, but will be used against poor fishermen, migrants, the labour movement in general. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'contract' in the definition of a contract. the poor fishermen from the eu can only expect repression and their disappearance, poverty and misery, for the benefit of the monopolies.
in writing. i voted against mrs lövin's report because it deals with a very important issue, that of illegal fishing. the european union (eu) has a particular responsibility in the fight against illegal fishing, as it is the largest market for fishery products worldwide and one of the largest fishing powers. i congratulate mrs lövin on the importance she attaches to the fact that there is a lack of access to information, but also a lack of transparency as regards the names of vessels and the identity of their real owners, since this provision is considered necessary to tackle the problem and member states must take a wide range of measures to improve transparency.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report, which has been very well received by the house and which has been very well received by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. and you are absolutely right, but since it is clear that we have no time, why do we not say directly and openly, mr vice-president of the commission, that it is wrong to enter into discussions now about changing the treaties? and it is wrong, not only because institutional changes cannot and should not be made under pressure and crisis - since there is a risk that they will lead to a cataclysm - but because they will inevitably prolong uncertainty, reinforce intra-european disagreements and therefore market uncertainty. we need stability, we need fiscal discipline, but we also need growth and social justice, we need a fair sharing of costs. we need a combination of solidarity and responsibility, not only between member states but also within member states. we need, commissioner, a new package that combines stricter budgetary discipline with a more flexible approach to the budgetary procedure. we have the rules, we voted on the package of six proposals, the commission presented its new proposals last week. we need tougher fiscal rules, eurobonds and a financial transaction tax as a package to ensure these principles.
madam president, we all talk about the crisis, often, as if it were an extraneous phenomenon that is not associated with any of the realities we have lived before, or is not associated with specific mistakes that have been made. but that's not the truth. we have reached the point where we are discussing the amendment of the treaties without having exhausted the legal possibilities of the treaty of lisbon, while at the same time we are calling for a change of the treaties with a limited agenda, knowing that this cannot be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no one can do that. so we need to make our position clear. we need to be clear about what we want. because changing the treaties is a process. it's not the reality of the situation. let's figure out what each of us wants. we must make it clear whether we want a more advanced, more political europe with common economic rules, fiscal discipline, a common way of operating, that is, a genuine economic and monetary union, or something else. and in this matter, all the members of the european union have a role to play, not just the members of the eurozone. the council of ministers has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there should be a little self-criticism. the delays that occurred gave the markets an opportunity to become dominant. we are therefore in danger of a kind of indirect abolition of democracy. it is therefore absolutely essential that the european leaderships should all come together to define their position on this matter.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a means of financing the single currency. then the unthinkable became a nightmare, and now we're in the stage just before the nightmare becomes a grim reality. we don't have time for this. time is dramatically short and this is a result of our leaders' inability to make timely and comprehensive decisions. we're behaving like marathoners while running a sprint race and there's no other margin. the revision of the treaties does not respond to the urgency of the matter, it does not respond to the urgency of the moment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i know the problems, i know the countermeasures, but i believe that with strong political will and the necessary flexibility, we can have in our hands this great weapon to deal with the crisis now.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. i should like to stress, however, that croatia has also made considerable efforts to respond to the enormous problems it was facing. it has thus responded successfully, and i hope it will continue reform efforts with the same dynamism, in particular in the areas of justice and fundamental rights, improvements in the handling of corruption cases, public transparency in the field of procurement, party financing. it has made enormous progress compared with other applicant countries in the region, and i am referring specifically to fyrom which is lagging behind and, regardless of the name issue, is not ready to continue the procedures. in this sense, i hope that in any case the accession of croatia will give a new lease of life to the european perspective of the western balkan countries and with this i welcome croatia to the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that there is perhaps no point in discussing this report because the facts have passed us by and gone beyond us. the european semester in the context of budgetary discipline and austerity is in full accordance with the plans of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy to create the budgetary union of the willing, it is a basic idea for a stricter stability pact. in the name of restoring market confidence, rights are being sacrificed, social gains are being destroyed, and these policies, ladies and gentlemen, are incompatible with democracy. the treaties are being set aside, the national parliaments are being set aside, the european parliament is being set aside and, tomorrow, mr rehn is being set aside. the budget will be drawn up and decided in berlin, provided that it is in line with mrs merkel's policies. we are being driven, at high speed and with blackmail, into a europe of two or three speeds, a europe of the powerful and the powerless, a europe of the able and the unable, a europe of the trustworthy and the untrustworthy, the second prey of speculators and markets. the european union is unfortunately becoming more reactionary, more undemocratic and moving away from the ideals of creating an area of solidarity and social justice.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on the comprehensive and balanced report she has presented. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. measures taken under the national reform plans, economic governance and the european semester should not contribute to worsening the social crisis in some countries with more vulnerable economies, thereby making life increasingly difficult. i agree with the rapporteur that the single market must be at the heart of european economic governance and i think it is essential that member states increase support for smes, which are the backbone of the single market economy. education, as an important sector for the development of a sustainable economy, must be strengthened so that it can act as a growth engine and not be subject to budget cuts that can be costly due to the marginalization of younger generations in terms of employment.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu's comprehensive response to hiv/aids.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the house! i have the honour, as the representative of the polish presidency, to present the position of the european union and the member states on world aids day, as agreed with the european commission and subsequently adopted by the council on 28 november 2011. today, on world aids day 2011, the european union and its member states join people around the world in honouring the memory of their relatives, friends and loved ones who have died of aids and reaffirm their commitment to supporting all people living with hiv and affected by the aids epidemic. this year marks a special anniversary: exactly 30 years ago, the world learned about hiv and aids. the first cases of aids were identified in december 1981. during these 30 years of struggle and sacrifice of millions of people, over 30 million people have lost their lives and 16 million children have been orphaned by aids. hiv and aids have affected every country, every community and every family. an estimated 33.3 million people worldwide are currently living with hiv, and 7,000 new infections occur every day, mostly in low- and middle-income countries. the last 30 years have also been a period of unprecedented commitment and partnership. in the face of hiv, we have learned the value of partnership and dialogue, and we have learned that human rights and human dignity should always be at the forefront. impressive progress has led to a nearly 20% decline in new hiv infections globally over the past decade and a nearly 19% decline in aids-related deaths between 2004 and 2009. the greatest progress has been made in the most affected region, sub-saharan africa, where two-thirds of all people living with hiv live. the european union is proud that its efforts, together with such important partners as unaids, who, the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, unitaid, people living with hiv and civil society, have contributed to remarkable achievements in the global fight against hiv and aids. in 2010, the european union's contribution to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria was close to usd 1.5 billion, representing 53% of the total contributions to the fund (the european commission and member states together). however, more than 8 million people in low- and middle-income countries still need access to effective treatment, and the number of new infections still exceeds the number of people starting treatment. this means that hiv and aids continue to be one of the biggest obstacles to these countries' progress. in seven countries, including five in eastern europe and central asia, hiv infections increased by more than 25% between 2001 and 2009. through partnerships with these countries, the eu has stepped up its efforts to change this unacceptable situation, calling for an urgent intensification of prevention programmes and services at regional and national level that can lead to the elimination of hiv and aids. the european union will play a decisive role in the fight against hiv and aids by strengthening its leadership and better adapting the action of the european union institutions to the changing hiv context at global and european level. the challenge for us now is to keep aids as a priority and to accelerate action at the global, regional, national and local levels to end the epidemic. the european union welcomes the comprehensive review of progress made towards the commitments under all the millennium development goals of 2000 and the ambitious targets for 2015 set out in the political declaration on hiv/aids, entitled 'increasing efforts to eliminate hiv/aids', adopted at the united nations general assembly high-level meeting on aids in june 2011. achieving these goals will bring us closer to a world without new hiv infections, aids-related deaths and discrimination. the european union joins the community of people fighting the aids epidemic in supporting the unaids strategy of zero new infections, zero discrimination and zero deaths from hiv/aids getting to zero and, on the occasion of world aids day, reaffirms its commitment to our common task of ending the hiv epidemic. we reaffirm the european union's commitment to working towards the 2015 targets of initiating antiretroviral treatment for 15 million people living with hiv, halving the number of sexually transmitted infections, halving the number of hiv infections among people who inject drugs, eliminating mother-to-child transmission of hiv and significantly reducing maternal deaths from aids. the european union stresses that prevention is the most effective way to stop the hiv epidemic. we need to ensure that prevention strategies are comprehensive, are developed on the basis of available knowledge with full respect for human rights and understanding of the local context, while making the fullest use of prevention methods already in place and promoting new methods and technologies. the european union is concerned that women and girls are particularly vulnerable to hiv infection due to physiological, economic and social factors, gender inequalities and violence. women and girls account for more than 50% of all people living with hiv, and hiv and aids remain the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among women of reproductive age. the european union will therefore step up its efforts to promote a gender-sensitive approach, equal rights and the empowerment of women, and to promote women's rights, in particular the right to protection against risky sexual behaviour, especially in the context of combating trafficking in human beings and all forms of sexual exploitation. at the same time, attention should be paid to promoting responsible behaviour, especially among men. the european union pays particular attention to populations at the highest risk of infection, including men who have sex with men, people who inject drugs, migrants, prisoners, ethnic minorities, sex workers and their clients. these populations are often marginalised and difficult to access, making them more vulnerable to hiv infection. at the same time, we note with concern that most young people still have limited access to sexual and reproductive health programmes that offer information, skills, services and social support. it is of the utmost importance to ensure wide access to specifically designed prevention programmes and services, including confidential hiv testing and counselling, high quality and affordable male and female condoms, comprehensive sexuality education, harm reduction programmes and other available prevention measures. when planning effective hiv prevention and care, the prevention and treatment of other sexually transmitted infections, such as hepatitis b and c and tuberculosis, should be considered. we call for deeper cooperation in this area and for the integration of hiv and aids programmes into primary health care, including sexual and reproductive health programmes, and for the strengthening of programmes and services related to the prevention and treatment of all these diseases. the european union recognises the need for greater involvement of people living with hiv or aids in all aspects of the planning, implementation and monitoring of prevention and support policies, strategies and programmes. we recognise the crucial role of ngos, including those that bring together people and communities affected by hiv, in supporting national and local action in this area. the european union welcomes the significant increase in the availability of antiretroviral treatment, but notes with concern the variation in availability across regions. more than 6.5 million people in low- and middle-income countries are currently receiving antiretroviral treatment. but there are still eight million people who are eligible for treatment who are not. recent scientific findings on the efficacy of antiretroviral medicines increase the potential for hiv prevention and the fight against the epidemic. we would like to underline our commitment to universal access to antiretroviral treatment, care and support for people living with hiv or aids and the importance of national engagement and investment, with due regard for the dignity, rights and freedoms of people affected. the european union welcomes the significant decrease in the number of new hiv infections transmitted from mother to child. we reaffirm our commitment to action leading to universal access to vertical infection prevention to eliminate hiv infection among children and save the lives of their mothers. the european union reaffirms that all people living with hiv or aids, in particular children and young people, should have access to the best available care, treatment and support. we reiterate the need to integrate hiv/aids and sexual and reproductive health and rights into strategies and programmes at local, national, regional and international levels. member states should protect persons living with hiv or aids from discrimination, stigmatisation and deprivation of their rights and freedoms. the european union also reaffirms its commitment and support for the abolition of restrictions on the right of entry and short- and long-term residence of persons living with hiv, the decriminalisation of homosexuality and the abolition of its laws, as such legal provisions are neither adequate tools to combat the epidemic nor provide support to populations at particular risk of infection. the european union recognises that in times of economic crisis, the appropriate allocation of available resources, including for health promotion and prevention, is a key issue. we therefore reaffirm our strong commitment to work towards the effectiveness and efficiency of existing programmes and services and to strengthen national health systems and human resources necessary to provide the health, education and social services essential for the prevention, treatment, care and support of people living with hiv/aids. only by continuing our work, by stepping up high-quality and effective action and by closing the existing gaps in all areas, will the european union as a whole and each of its member states be able to make a significant contribution to reducing new infections, stigma and discrimination and aids-related deaths.
member of the commission. − i thank all those who took part in this debate for the strong message they are giving to continue our fight against the hiv/aids disease. this strong message is all the more important today when, due to the austerity programmes we are having in europe, much of the resources that were being allocated to the health sector are being reduced. it is important that our message today is that cost reductions in our countries' budgets must be achieved by fighting waste and not by cutting funding programmes such as for hiv/aids and by the stronger investment we need in prevention. over the past few years substantial progress has been made in our fight against this disease. but we are still far from reaching our target of zero new infections, aids deaths and discrimination. but, and here i can give the commission's full commitment, it is our commitment to continue to work tirelessly to achieve these objectives. we need to ensure that we fight discrimination, which is a major scourge in many european countries, and that we ensure access to care for all those infected or at risk of infection with this disease both in europe and outside europe. but as some of you have said, we also need a strong effort in educating our people, our citizens, on everything that has to do with hiv/aids infection. i make sure we continue our work. on the commission side we have run a platform, the so-called anti-aids/hiv 'think tank' which is made up of member states where we try to push as far as we can to have best practices in all our member [countries] so that our action is coordinated and then we can expect better results.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 1 december 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr ramon tremosa i balcells, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report of the european central bank for 2010 [2011/2156 (ini) ] the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i would like to warmly welcome the new president of the european central bank, mr mario draghi, and on behalf of all of us in the european parliament, wish him every success in his very difficult task.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr draghi, the european central bank's statutory objective of price stability, regardless of the impact on the real economy, has proved disastrous in these circumstances. this is also underlined in the ecb's annual report for 2010. i propose that the role of the european central bank be changed. second, in 2010 the european central bank consistently hid behind inflation: first, not to put a brake on the spreads; secondly, to prevent the mafia of rating agencies from acting as a speculator, which is also included in the statute; thirdly, to keep interest rates high - you, mr draghi, have lowered them somewhat recently - higher than the united states, higher than great britain, in times of recession. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. independent bankers are being "sanctified" to the point of becoming prime ministers, as we have in two countries. the european central bank is therefore being manipulated politically. the political parliamentary control of the european central bank must be changed.
mr president, in mr tremosa i balcells' report, the european parliament fully recognises that the european central bank has played an active and decisive role throughout the crisis, from the start of the financial market turmoil in 2007 and 2008, until, of course, the intervention in the secondary markets of euro-area government bonds. however, we know and you know that the crisis has developed, it has not been contained and it has now become systemic, and it is obvious that this is not the responsibility of the european central bank. as the european parliament has consistently and repeatedly pointed out, the enlargement and spread of the crisis is the result of hesitation, indecision and delays in taking and implementing the appropriate decisions, primarily at political level, by the governments of the member states. mr president, the decision of the european central bank yesterday, to which you referred, to coordinate its actions with the five largest central banks at world level in order to increase liquidity in the global financial system, has undoubtedly a positive dimension. it's a decision that will have beneficial effects, temporarily. we all know that a comprehensive and effective response to the crisis is urgently needed, which goes beyond this and is combined with the rules of the strictest budgetary discipline, to which you referred, and with the new fiscal pact, as you described it. mr president, as other members have said, we fully respect the independence of the european central bank, which, however, apart from price stability, is the guardian of the euro, the single currency, and this is the role it is called upon to play today, in an exceptional case. you know and we know that there is no way out of the crisis without a strengthened role for the european central bank. it is, of course, up to you and the executive board of the european central bank to consider all the proposals and decide how.
in writing. the lifting of the immunity of the kke mep, george tussa, at the request of the piraeus prosecutor's office because, as a member of the board of directors of nat and representative of the shipowners, he allegedly voted unanimously on 27 march 2003 with the other members of the board of directors to grant a certificate of non-debt to "mare nautiliak" which had bid at the auction of the ship "directorative of moyra" with debts to nat, constitutes a distortion of the truth and an attempt to exonerate the real responsible parties, the longstanding policy of the governments of the pdoc, npa and the eu for the bankruptcy of nat and the insurance funds of the workers. the piraeus prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity lacks legal or moral basis in accordance with the facts and his clear position on the board of directors of nato. the minutes of these meetings of the board of directors of nat show that george tussa, as representative of pemen, expressing the positions of the class shipowners' movement, not only did not agree with the board of directors of nat to grant a certificate of non-debt but, on the contrary, asked for full security and payment of the insurance contributions to the fund. moreover, even before the european parliament requested the lifting of his immunity, the kke mep was tried on 16-10-2007 in the tripartite court of appeal of piraeus, together with other trade unionists, for the strike of the class shipping unions, and was acquitted after the collapse of the rotten indictment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. it is now clear that the fiscal debt crisis in the periphery has turned into a new economic crisis in the euro area with a highly negative impact on macroeconomic stability and the budget of the member states. the european commission's proposal, which amends council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 (the general regulation) and provides for additional financial resources in eu member states facing particular difficulties in managing public debt and deficits and thus in ensuring fiscal stability, is moving in the right direction but is not sufficient. the eurozone now also needs a strong political message. the next eu summit on 9 december will be one of the last opportunities to demonstrate the common political will of all the member states to take very concrete measures to overcome the crisis.
in writing. the european central bank's statutory objective of price stability, regardless of the impact on the real economy, proved, in these circumstances, disastrous. the report does not, however, acknowledge the weaknesses in the ecb's statutory objectives and considers this to be a positive development. the role of the ecb must be changed to one of genuine solidarity and support for the peoples and the member states. this report on the ecb's 2010 balance sheet fails to recognise that in a highly critical period the ecb hid behind the containment of inflation, creating a number of adverse consequences. the commission has not put a brake on the sprinting of the sprints, and it has not put a brake on the activities of the 'speculative mafia' of the rating agencies, but has incorporated their activities into its statutes. third, it kept interest rates high in times of recession, higher than the us, higher than the uk. finally, the question of the independence of the ecb is very controversial, as the 'independent bankers' are being sanctified to the point of becoming prime ministers, as we already have in two countries. the central bank is being manipulated politically. the political, parliamentary control of the ecb is essential. i have voted against the report for all these reasons.
in writing. the ecb's intervention in the secondary bond market was undoubtedly important, but it is no longer sufficient. the ecb is invited to take action, to the extent necessary, to ensure that member states have access to liquidity. the decision yesterday by the world's major central banks to ease monetary policy is another step in this direction, but the next few days are crucial. the ecb has its own role to play in trying to resolve the eurozone crisis. with rising borrowing rates in so-called 'hard core' euro countries such as italy, the ecb can act as a buffer in the money markets. the report, which i voted for, outlines this need, expresses the importance of more courageous decisions in the hope that the ecb report next year will contain more optimistic messages for the european economy.
in writing. in 2009, the rate of early school leaving for all young people aged 18 to 24 in europe stood at 14,4% when the member states themselves have committed to reducing this rate to 10% by 2020. greece has one of the highest rates of early school leavers after primary education and almost the highest rate of early school leavers among young immigrants (over 40%). the social and economic implications are significant. they range from the social marginalization of early school leavers and fewer job opportunities to the reduction of a country's economic potential. it is estimated that reducing the rate of early school leavers across europe by just 1% would increase the number of skilled young people by half a million each year, with a corresponding contribution to the gdp of these countries. the report, which i voted in favour of, underlines these consequences, while proposing a series of actions, such as reform of the education system, extension of the institution of 'second chance' and strengthening of the community resources earmarked for this purpose.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mary honeyball report because it deals with a very sensitive subject which needs to be resolved as soon as possible. early school leaving (esl) is a complex phenomenon and a huge challenge facing europe. the european union has therefore begun to implement a number of measures and tools to better support member states in developing effective and substantive national policies to tackle this phenomenon. the europe 2020 strategy sets six additional key objectives for member states, one of which is to reduce early school leaving to 10% by 2020, a target we all need to achieve in our countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by kinga gál and barbara lochbihler because i consider the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) to be one of the financial instruments for external action to promote democracy and human rights worldwide. it is very important, in a period of economic crisis in which european societies are being weighed down by financial debts, to have a financial instrument of support which in difficult circumstances will strengthen domestic markets and subsequently the euro area as a whole.
in writing. the kaliningrad region, which is part of the russian federation, became a pocket within the eu as a result of the eu enlargement in 2004 and since then its links with neighbouring countries have been significantly reduced. despite european initiatives to improve the mobility of kaliningrad's residents, the region's peculiar geographical location has not prevented the marginalization of kaliningrad and its residents. with this proposal to amend the regulation, and on the basis of article 15 of the regulation which allows member states to introduce measures to facilitate the crossing of borders by holders of local crossborder traffic permits, the report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the neighbouring countries, and in this case poland, to take all the necessary measures, such as, for example, the establishment of specific border crossing points or lanes exclusively for holders of local crossborder traffic permits, in order to facilitate movement and to eliminate the conditions which impede such movement and introduce new barriers.
in writing. the eu's enlargement policy is one of the most important aspects of european integration. on the other hand, the enlargement process, as implemented by the eu, is also a tool which allows for continuous monitoring of the path followed by the acceding countries, acting as a lever for political and economic reforms in the candidate countries. enlargement policy is a key instrument for regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. i wish croatia every success in its accession process and hope that it will continue its reform efforts with the same vigour.
in writing. the european semester and the closer coordination of the budgetary policies of the member states on the basis of the dominant neoliberal trends are in full accordance with the plans of the merkel-sarkozy partners. in the name of 'regaining' market confidence, citizens' rights are being sacrificed and social assets are being demolished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european semester has been overtaken by developments. it is no longer sufficient to safeguard the interests of mrs merkel and her allies. but it is the 'key idea' for creating a stricter stability pact and a 'fiscal union of the willing' that will strangle the member states and the peoples of europe. the member states' budgets will be designed and approved in berlin, while the creation of a multi-speed europe of the 'strong' and the 'weak' will leave the second-tier member states to the whims of the speculators. the european semester report is fully in line with the eu's failed neoliberal policies and deprives member states of the opportunity to pursue an alternative countercyclical policy aimed at redistribution of wealth and sustainable development. i have voted against the report for all these reasons.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report because i think it presents a very good text which balances the social and economic dimensions of economic governance measures. the emphasis should be on growth and competitiveness of the eu. to this end, it is appropriate to harmonise the national economic policies of the eu member states in order to meet the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the report on the european centre for disease control and prevention's aids surveillance found that in 2009 there were 25,917 new cases of hiv infection in countries of the european union and the european economic area. but the situation in greece is much worse. the increase in the rate of patients with the virus exceeds 1250% in a single year. the reason is the deliberate pursuit of hiv by drug users in order to receive the social benefit and uncontrolled prostitution. the necessary measures which this resolution calls upon the member states and the commission to take are correct but probably insufficient for greece. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the necessary powers to deal with the situation in the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr matteo salvini because it very well describes the need for modernisation of customs in europe. competitiveness in the economic sector in europe is of paramount importance, particularly for the revival of the internal market. the customs sector plays an important role in improving and influencing competitiveness, as simplification of customs legislation and the promotion of electronic customs stimulate economic growth.
mr president, perhaps nothing betrays more the degree of homogeneity of a state or supranational entity than the consistency of the way it treats those it perceives as third parties. historically, many confederations of autonomous states came very close when they adopted policies of uniform treatment of the presence of nationals of other states on their territory. the uniform policy of the various states in dealing with foreign nationals is a common and often cited example of immigration policy. today we are again debating a draft directive which, despite its initial reservations, goes one step further by providing for common rules on the treatment of third-country nationals residing in the territory of the european union, and the role of the rapporteur, mrs mathieu, whom i thank in turn, in overcoming the differences is a given and a reality and i cannot understand why the socialist group ultimately abstained from voting in the libe committee. the direct benefits of this directive are obvious: less red tape, greater legal certainty in the schengen area, building trust between member states, more effective fight against irregular immigration, common rules on the labour assessment of third-country nationals' professional qualifications, benefits for social security and health care. and the benefits in the medium term are even greater. the fact that the third country national is treated in the same way in greece, the netherlands, sweden and every other member state of the union is another step towards a unified approach to our common future. i therefore think that the adoption of this directive is an important step for the legislator, for the european parliament, a major step towards the adoption of a common european immigration policy and, ultimately, another important step on the road to european integration.
mr president, he leaves in 2011 leaving a feeling of uncertainty about the future, the future of the citizens, the future of europe and the future of the euro. over the years, the institutions of the european union have been replaced by an informal german-based directorate with french support. political leaders and media have exposed the problems of mediterranean countries as a result of the laziness and corruption of their inhabitants. we call the greeks lazy and it turns out they're the hardest working europeans. as a greek, i reject these accusations, accusations which, unfortunately, by their continuing calumny have created a rift in the foundations of the peoples. we must take care of it, we must treat it, and above all we must send a message: we respect berlin, we respect paris, but the european union is here!
mr. president, when your house catches fire, you run to put it out with all the fire extinguishers at your disposal. you're not concerned with how to improve the fire department's code of conduct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had a reversal of priorities there and that is why three days later we are again talking about a partial rather than a complete solution to the crisis. the proof: the markets are already sending discouraging signals and time is running out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european central bank must also be involved decisively and immediately. mr sarkozy spoke of the birth of a different europe with the key to the convergence of economies, fiscal rules and taxation. but be careful! are we finally creating another europe? the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people, a european union of the people, a europe of the people, a europe of the people. this is not the europe of our dreams, mr president. this is gonna be a nightmare.
mr president, just yesterday morning in durban a decision was made in the climate negotiations for a second commitment period for the kyoto protocol. the developed countries – the annex i countries – have now to commit to the new commitments for emission reductions by may 2012. we have to bridge a big emission gap. the developing countries have delivered. we asked them for a road map for a legally binding global agreement. they delivered this road map. by 2015 there will be an agreement, but now it is up to us, the developed countries. now it is up to the eu to deliver as well. we have to commit to a 30% reduction of our greenhouse emissions by 2012. this will allow us to create jobs and to stay globally competitive.
a question with a blue card. mr president, mrs kool, i would like to ask you this, since you have also been rapporteur for certain measures: we heard from the president-in-office that the psi procedure which was adopted was very negative. this very negative procedure is currently applied to greece and to no other member state of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals.
a question with a blue card. mr president, mr president, i have heard all your good and positive words about 9 december, but you must admit that when your house is on fire, you must do everything possible to put it out. you don't change the fire department's rules of engagement! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they covered the long run, but they didn't see the short run. and the immediate would be a better use of the european central bank. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to say that we are of course building a europe of converging economies, fiscal rules and taxation. but i fear that this is a europe of unemployment, of starvation and despair. that would be bad for all of us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, we are making another interesting assessment of the results of the last european council today, knowing that our own assessment matters little, counts little. the most important thing, because we have allowed it to be so, is the assessment of the markets, and this assessment, as the movements in the stock and bond markets yesterday and today have shown, was negative, and paradoxically, in order not to throw everything at the markets and renounce political responsibility, it was negative because, as one of the three rating agencies characteristically said in yesterday's report, the decisions of the european council do not respond to and do not address the immediate risks of economic slowdown and the problems in the banking system. so we are discussing and planning for the future of the eurozone but we are still unable to manage the present, and this is largely because every single community decision-making system has been completely circumvented, because two decide for the 27 or the 17, while flagrantly ignoring the european institutions.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the council has taken the initiative to adopt the report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. many years ago, in 1985, the report by professor cecchini, commissioned by the commission, entitled 'the cost of non-europe', was discussed in this same parliament. we were all convinced then that there had to be a common currency in order to have a real european union. but monetary union has not been perfect. the european council now seems to be discussing what the cost of europe will be and not the cost of non-europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in any case, if time is needed, there must be democratic legitimacy, and democratic legitimacy in decisions that are taken piecemeal every time - because i do not think we are finished with the council of 8 and 9 december - there cannot be if at least the european parliament does not have a role that overlaps institutionally with the role of the national parliaments, which is ultimately non-existent. the speaker accepts to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 149 (3))
a question with a blue card. mr president, mrs giannaku, i would like your opinion on a matter which i am sure is of great concern to you and i would also like the opinion of the president of the commission on this. we are adopting measures and we have decided in the european council to impose stricter sanctions on those who violate budgetary discipline. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary situation in the member states. so the question is: are we tightening sanctions on fiscal offenders? how can we avoid making decisions which could have a detrimental effect on the course of the crisis?
answer to a question with a blue card. mr president, this is a matter which i myself raised in my speech, namely that if our political decisions, together with budgetary discipline and the rules to be observed by all, are not in line and, in the end, the consequences of the political decisions are enormous for some countries, this is a real problem for europe, not just for the countries in which the specific effects will be felt. that is why i raised the question of the democratic legitimacy of these decisions and said that if the national parliaments are not involved - because they are not - at least the european parliament should have a more substantial role and, of course, the european commission should remain the guardian of the treaties.
in writing. the statements by commission president barroso, european council president rompuy and the political representatives of capital in the european parliament's plenary session on the outcome of the eu summit on 8 and 9 december show once again that this new compromise is fatal. the contradictions between the bourgeois governments of the eu member states, who defend the interests of their own monopoly groups, are intensifying to the extreme, in the face of the relentless competition, who will lose the least and who the most from the inevitable capital destruction that the deep capitalist crisis in the eu and the eurozone entails. no 'compact fiscal convergence', no 'enhanced economic governance', no 'golden rule' for balanced budgets and 'debt brakes' in the eurozone and the eu can prevent the capitalist law of uneven economic growth, which is intensifying as the crisis progresses. these iron mechanisms are set up to save the monopolies and crush the people. with new waves of anti-worker measures across the eu: the explosion of unemployment, the reduction of wages and pensions, the generalization of flexible forms of employment, the abolition of collective agreements, the raising of the retirement age, the dismantling of public insurance, health, welfare and education systems, the abolition of social benefits. they make the life of the workers a living hell.
mr. hannan, i'd like to point out that your intervention is off the record. please, mrs. corazza, would you like to intervene?
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive, which i voted in favour of, contains two important elements: the first is the consolidation of procedural rules in the field of informing accused persons and suspects in criminal proceedings. the full information of the accused is a fundamental element of the legal culture of privileged democratic states. the union has thus far concentrated on the unification of civil and commercial legislation. the efforts made in the field of criminal law demonstrate that confidence in the ability of the peoples of europe to cooperate is particularly high and show that the process of integration is progressing unabated even in difficult times.
in writing. the regulation on reducing national participation in eu funds for farmers, which was advertised, like the one for the esdp, by the eu, the pasok government and now the pasok-nd-laos black front government as a 'national success' and proof of eu solidarity, is yet another attempt to deceive the people. what are the political representatives of capital hiding: that eu funds - actually workers' money - are not going to increase but will remain at the same level, which means that any investment in projects funded by eu funds will be less. most importantly, however, the eligibility criteria for eu-funded projects will be those that serve the needs of the monopoly groups, their competitiveness and profitability, rather than projects and infrastructure for the benefit of the poor and middle peasants, to meet popular needs. it is therefore once again demonstrated that the eu is not only a 'solidarity union' but an imperialist union of monopolies, to serve their interests, an iron mechanism against the peoples and the workers' and people's movement.
in writing. the economic crisis is deepening in member states such as greece which are implementing unacceptable austerity programmes having caused enormous adverse social and economic consequences for farmers in these countries who are already facing enormous economic problems. the full absorption of the rural development programmes co-financed by the eaggf is an imperative if the rural sector of these countries is not to collapse. the increase in the percentage of the eafrd contribution applied to rural development programmes in those member states will free up national resources to fully absorb rural development programmes at risk of being lost. the amendments tabled by mr de castro, which are incorporated into the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, contribute at institutional level to a more effective implementation of the measure of increasing the eaggf co-financing rate for rural development programmes. the application of the regulation after its publication is an immediate necessity. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report by mr paolo de castro with the amendments in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the owninitiative report. non-tariff barriers, which take many forms (anti-dumping duties, exchange rate manipulation, import valuation methods, customs duties, etc.), are technical, complex and politically and socially sensitive, as some measures are implemented by governments in the public interest. in any event, however, some mfis have a restrictive effect on the ability of european firms to penetrate foreign markets. the new eu trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy should therefore be more outward-looking, so that, where possible, the commission can reach agreement with the eu's main trading partners on the removal of any restrictive and protective arrangements that cause trade distortions.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the report we are discussing today, mr president, lady ashton, and for which i would like to congratulate mr lisek, concerns the future of the defence sector in the period of economic crisis and is of particular interest. two things are important to us: on the one hand, we must ensure that synergies and cooperation are strengthened at european level, so as to avoid wasting resources, and on the other hand, we must safeguard jobs in the defence sector. the situation requires intelligent coordination to lay the foundations for the development of a globally competitive industry which could potentially create new jobs in the defence sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in the final analysis, european solidarity, specialisation, interoperability and complementarity are for us the guidelines of a progressive policy in the field of defence industry and a response to the crisis.
mr president, lady ashton, my country greece owes one fifth of its debt to the defence industries. as you know, there is a casus belli between turkey and greece and we must be defensively equipped. lady ashton, we can no longer maintain this defensive edge we had. let me ask you a question: if turkey triggers the casus belli, as it has done in the recent past, who will defend the borders of the european union? this is a real threat, and we need a serious defense. we would like, lady ashton, that amount and that budget to be taken over by the commission when we are talking about a real threat and not about a matter of prestige, not about whether the european union will be involved in afghanistan or here or there. there is a real threat to which we cannot respond and you should think about how we will respond as a union. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question with a blue card. mr president, in this chamber we are talking about a common european defence policy - that is what i am referring to - which does not exist in my own country, greece, which has been a member of the european union for 30 years. when there was a military incident between greece and turkey a few years ago it was not nato, it was not the european union that responded and helped; it was the american 6th fleet, and i'm very sorry about that. i hope i have answered your question, mr van orden, and i am speaking of a real danger and not of all the things we have discussed here which fortunately are only about prestige. fortunately, the rest of you don't have the problem we're facing.
mr president, there is no doubt that the deep economic crisis is putting very great pressure on national defence budgets and by extension on europe's defence industry. all, even member states facing particular and inflexibly high national security needs, such as greece on its eastern border, are looking for realistic and effective solutions based on the logic of lower cost - higher performance. in these difficult circumstances, there are not many options, that's the truth. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. but it's an uphill one-way street. the implementation of cooperation and synergy is not a simple undertaking, as defence policy is at the very core of national sovereignty. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. at the same time, of course, interoperability, complementarity and, of course, the rationalisation of defence expenditure are of particular importance. in greece we are trying to achieve this, but believe me, it is very difficult because we are facing a real threat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, i would like to ask mrs ashton about the secret agreement between papandreou, merkel and sarkozy which was revealed in the newspaper new europe and concerns the purchase of german and french arms worth 10 billion as a condition for the new aid package. of course mrs ashton is not listening at the moment but i would like her to comment on this very news from a reputable newspaper at the very time when there are anti-social cuts in the 2012 budget and at the very time when the armaments programmes are increasing by 18.2% and the expenditure on nato by 50%. if this is true, it is a european scandal of enormous significance and why the parties that are currently governing in greece are involved and why there are so many years of bribes from german and other companies. i also want to ask: does mrs ashton agree that the greek government should be forced to continue this arms diplomacy? can it help us, the country, to free ourselves from the outstanding issues with turkey, instead of watching us sink deeper into the crisis?
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. - madam president, we in the committee on employment in the opinion i have drawn up have focused more on the north african states, bearing in mind that if we get along with our neighbours and take care of them, it is as if we were taking care of our own home and family. we have pointed out the economic, social and educational reforms which must be given weight to help these societies. we also stressed the need to strengthen the role of the social partners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration and to prevent the brain drain to the outside world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to add a sentence: observation. the european training foundation met in rome a few days after my report was written and there was a common belief that it would be a very helpful tool to set up an observatory in relation to what is happening and how much we can help in north africa.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i welcome the effort made in the report and in the commission's proposals developed by mr füle to reward partners according to the progress they make, particularly those who are making democratic reforms on the basis of the principle 'more for more'. the efforts to strengthen cooperation with civil society are also important. the council has rightly adopted the proposal to set up the european foundation for democracy, which will be intended to assist political parties and trade associations. i welcome the approval of additional financing of 23% and the extension of the european bank's activities in the regions and believe that the success of the european neighbourhood policy will create conditions for the residents of these regions to stay in their own countries and will have a significant impact on the reduction of illegal and legal migration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − madam president, those were very encouraging words. i am grateful for them. let me share with this house a couple of personal points as a reflection on this very productive debate. it is not the first, and will not be the last, on the important issue of our relationship with our neighbours. the first point is the importance of our addressing the internal and the external challenges at the same time because, whenever we try to forget the external challenges and focus only on the internal, or the other way around, we become not stronger, but weaker. it is that balance – taking care of our internal needs, strengthening integration – which enables us to be stronger externally also. it is that balance which turns challenges into opportunities. my second point is on defending our borders, a subject mentioned in the debate. i am in favour of strong external borders; i am in favour of defending strong external borders; but i am against walls. we worked very hard to remove the wall dividing our continent and we should not, at the end of the process, try to rebuild that wall around our external borders. we need strong borders but ones which will be open, as one of you put it, for commodities such as democracy. my third point is that i appreciate that the main aspect of interaction with this distinguished house is not this kind of plenary meeting – although such meetings have a huge importance – but the operational steering that both the commission and the european parliament have been engaged in for some time already. it is that operational steering which will help us to address a number of issues. some of you mentioned regional cooperation and cross-border cooperation. others have a number of ideas about how to approach intelligent conditionality. by the way, sooner or later i will be working very hard on that arrangement, and will come to this house with the high representative to discuss our ideas about how to deal with ‘more for more’ principles. it is one thing to include such conditionality in our philosophical or conceptual approach to neighbourhood policy, but another thing to determine the relevant criteria. how exactly is it going to work? how exactly, according to what formula, are you going to spend those eur 350 million in the framework of the arab spring? these are important questions and they need to be answered in dialogue with this house. cooperation with this house is also important if we are not to lose our way on the difficult road before us, because we are entering uncharted territory. books will be written about what kind of reaction we provide. to help ensure we do not lose our way i do not only need the input of this house, i also need you to help us to learn from our own mistakes and, sometimes, misjudgements, and provide us with feedback. my fourth point is to reaffirm that democracy and women’s rights go hand in hand. our neighbourhood policy will help those trying to break the political, economic and social barriers to equality, through measures ranging from enshrining women’s rights in new constitutions and laws to practical ways of supporting women in meeting their everyday challenges. this is a priority we are promoting across the board, and i am glad the european parliament report shares that vision. there has also been concern about the possibility of our moving funds from the eu development and humanitarian aid budget to the neighbourhood policy instrument. it is a fact that the european union budget is finite; it cannot expand for ever, so we have to make choices. but let me make it absolutely clear that those funds we have already reallocated to the neighbourhood policy instrument from the development cooperation instrument came from allocations for middle-income countries where absorption was low. my sixth and last point is that we will be issuing our next progress report on the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy next spring. i hope to be able to inform you in more detail on that occasion about what we are doing to deliver on the renewed enp and the results of our policy. in the meantime i need all the interaction, and all the support, you can provide because we are talking not only about a new neighbourhood but also about a new commitment, a new engagement and a new philosophy as regards our relationship with our neighbourhood.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the polish presidency, in a context of deepening capitalist crisis and inter-imperialist antagonisms within the european union and with the other imperialist centres, has contributed to serving the interests of european groups and defending the bourgeois political system. the european union has been a relentless enemy of the interests of its peoples, along with the other governments of the member states of the european union. he has zealously promoted all the anti-people decisions of the council, the commission, governments and the political forces of capital: the european union's europe 2020 strategy, strengthened economic governance, the recent decisions of the council summit, the stability pact, strengthened fiscal discipline, work on the multiannual financial framework; the european parliament has been a party to the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it has been a party to the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. it has turned its back on the decisions for the controlled bankruptcy of greece, the uncontrolled bankruptcy of the greek working class and the popular strata, while opening the pandora's box for the spread of bankruptcy to the peoples of the other member states of the european union to save the profits of the plutocracy. the polish presidency was marked by the imperialist war of the usa, the european union and nato against libya. the danger of imperialist wars, of a general regional conflagration, is growing even more. the peoples must not shed their blood in the war for the interests of the monopolies! the polish government, with the particular contribution of the outgoing president of the european parliament, has reinforced and escalated the anti-communist hysteria in which the european union is taking the lead. hardly a day goes by without him organizing every kind of rampant slander against the socialism we have known in the 20th century, promoting the unprecedented rewriting of history with the vulgar equation of fascism with communism. this aspect of the polish presidency's activity is also reflected in the fear of all the bourgeois governments in the european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the polish presidency of the european council is coming to the end of its six-month term, and its priority has been to promote european integration as a source of growth with a view to deepening the single market and completing its structure. the presidency must be judged in the light of the intensity of the economic crisis, both at world and european level. the economic situation in europe, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is moving in a quicksand, which requires deepening economic governance and intensifying the tension against the so-called markets, which have become the destroyers of the economic life of the planet. the summits of 26 october and 8 december were particularly important during the polish presidency. the second remains to be seen whether it will lead to an intergovernmental agreement on strict fiscal discipline in the context of a currency rescue. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. the crisis is real, but europe must also exist after the crisis, mr president. in conclusion, i consider the polish presidency to be sufficiently successful.
mr president, mr prime minister, the polish presidency has been associated with the worst crisis the european union has ever faced, a crisis which is not only affecting the weak countries but also the very heart of the european union. a week ago, the leaders of the european union decided to take tougher measures, cutting wages and pensions, cutting social spending, cutting spending on education. they have decided to build a europe where democracy, rights, freedoms, popular and national sovereignty will have meaning when there are no elections in germany, when there are no problems in the german and french bank balance sheets. mr. prime minister, a short while ago the foreign minister told you that he fears german inaction and procrastination more than german strength, and i ask you: you have this decision; i heard your concerns, i heard your fears. can you give a message of optimism about these decisions to polish workers, to european workers, so that they do not fear for the present and for the future of their children?
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft scoreboard for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (o-000306/2011 b7-0670/2011)
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, mr vice-president of the european commission, in yesterday's edition of the financial times there was a very interesting article entitled 'why will the agreement of 8 december on fiscal union fail? i'm not sure. in a series of logical and self-evident arguments, many of which have been supported and supported for a long time by the european parliament and particularly by the socialist and democratic group, the newspaper points out that the unilateral obsession with fiscal discipline is counterproductive, because, as it points out, sound fiscal behaviour can still be associated with enormous imbalances and economic inefficiency. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in drawing up this report, which has been a great help to us in our efforts to combat the problem of pollution of the seas and the effects of the effects of the climate change. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 2000 to 2006 is based on the principle of the convergence criteria, which are laid down in the treaty of amsterdam. i would like to remind you that the key to reaching agreement on the two regulations was the clear statement by you, the european commission, that the procedure will concern both member states with surpluses and member states with deficits as well as ceilings and thresholds so that there is symmetry, and this is not a doctrinal principle; the commission's proposal is a precondition for ensuring that the process is truly economically convergent and balanced. (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the members for a very serious and substantive debate and for their support for this regulation and for the commission’s actions in this regard. concerning the question posed by ms bowles on the literature behind this scoreboard, the commission is currently working on background papers that will explain the economic rationale underlying the choice of indicators, including the relevant economic literature and the determination of thresholds. i can commit myself, the commission, and even dg ecfin to providing you with these background papers concerning the underlying economic rationale. ms podimata referred to a certain british financial media source. i do not think its words are sacrosanct. i recall, for instance, that in that source the euro area was not described as a small open economy, but i have a feeling that some commentators consider that the euro area is a large, closed economy. it is not a large closed economy. instead it is a large open economy that trades a very large share of its gdp with the rest of the world. this has obvious implications for the construction of our analytical mechanism of macroeconomic imbalances. the legislation enshrines the approach of intelligent symmetry, whereby surveillance covers both deficits and surpluses, but clearly underlines that there is greater urgency in tackling large deficits. moreover, policy responses need to be differentiated. i refer to the alert mechanism report which, in article 3.2, states ‘the assessment of member states showing large current account deficits may differ from that of member states that accumulate large current account surpluses’. i think the background noise suggests that it is time to close this debate. it is not very conducive to analytical debate on macroeconomic imbalances, so i suggest we continue our dialogue in the committee on economic and monetary affairs shortly.
i have received one motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30.
in writing. the fruit juice and other related products sector is a major industry within the european union and a large part of the european market. this market should, however, be strengthened by bringing the relevant community directive into line with international standards and the codex and by laying down rules for all products marketed in the community. clarification on labelling, product classification and authorised ingredients is necessary, and it is crucial to establish rules to prevent any attempt at fraud or unfair competition and to help inform consumers better. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of this.
in writing. i voted against the continuation of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement for two main reasons. the agreement is contrary to sahrawi rights and international law. morocco's sovereignty over western sahara has never been recognized by international law. since morocco is illegally occupying the area, it has no jurisdiction over its natural resources and therefore no right to negotiate agreements against the will and without the consent of the inhabitants. moreover, in order to be compatible with international law, economic activities relating to the exploitation of natural resources in non-self-governing territories must be carried out for the benefit of the population of those territories and in accordance with their will, which is not the case. in addition, there are serious ecological problems. many of the marine species in the area are overexploited. some are in danger of being completely depleted, mainly because of overfishing by european vessels. finally, the evaluation report on the agreement states that it has not contributed effectively to the development of the fisheries sector and does not address morocco's specific needs, either technically or economically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the current crisis.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it unreservedly supports the eu's aggression and its imperialist interventions around the world. the report, in the context of the eu council conclusions on the csdp, calls for the establishment of an eu military general staff, measures to make more direct and effective use of military and civilian means. the capitalist crisis is being used as a pretext to further strengthen the european defence agency, harmonise the military specifications and means of the member states, while coordinating with nato, in order to strengthen the eu's military capabilities for imperialist wars and interventions. the report calls for the integration of military researchers from member countries' programmes into the eu framework, the adoption of the weimar agreement, the upgrading of euro-army units (battlegroups) and an increase in national participation in the costs of eu operations, through the athena mechanism. it is clear that against the backdrop of the crisis and alongside the support of the nato missile shield, the eu is preparing for even larger-scale wars in the horn of africa, africa and asia.
in writing. i voted against the report because it encourages the increase in military spending by the member states and the european union, despite the terrible economic crisis and the restrictions on social spending, incomes and workers' rights. at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering the consequences of the crisis, this report is helping to serve the interests of the arms industries. the commission's proposal to the council and the european parliament is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, but it is not a step in the right direction. the report, which is fully integrated into the logic of 'security', supports, among other things, the upgrading of the functioning of nato and the union within it. it shall give priority to the military aspects of the union and shall encourage the correlation and alignment of political and military instruments, whether this concerns technical infrastructure, research or union actions. the union must direct resources towards social spending and public investment, and shape its foreign policy on the basis of international law and peace-loving principles, rather than offering profits to the big arms manufacturers.
in writing. by promoting the so-called new european neighbourhood policy (enp), eu capital is trying to take advantage of the new situation that has emerged, especially after the recent developments in north africa, to stabilise and strengthen its imperialist policy and positions in the wider neighbourhood of eu member states, both in the southeast mediterranean and north africa, and to the east. the eu funds political parties, ngos, 'activists', 'unregistered parties and organisations' in its neighbouring countries, in order to use them as the long arm of its imperialist ambitions and interventions in all third countries in the region. the european union is preparing the ground for the invasion of monopoly groups, the conquest of new positions and markets, under the pretext of promoting imperialist 'democracy'. the eu's strategy to promote the interests of european monopolies is spearheaded by free trade agreements, which leave nothing standing in these countries, with painful consequences for the people. to finance its imperialist action, the eu is setting up the 'european foundation for democracy' and the 'civil society instrument' mechanisms. the eu and its imperialist policy are a danger and an enemy to the peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the european neighbourhood policy, in addition to its important economic and political elements, includes the aspect of migration, which is particularly crucial for greece. it is a means of helping and at the same time promoting cooperation with neighbouring countries such as turkey. it is a tool for fostering mutual trust and relations of mutual understanding between the eu and its neighbours.
in writing. the report is an attempt to dangerously mislead and grossly deceive the people, while the ruthless attack on democratic rights and popular freedoms by eu and national repressive mechanisms is under way. the report supports the eu's basic 'counter-terrorism line', which treats 'radicalisation' and 'extremism' as the main sources of 'terrorism' to suppress, strike at any means of the labour-popular movement. while fully supporting the eu's entire 'counter-terrorism policy and strategy', it sheds crocodile tears for 'fundamental rights' and 'democratic freedoms', calling for repressive mechanisms to be held accountable to the european parliament and national parliaments. this is a daring challenge! the eu calls on the secret services and the various mechanisms of the bourgeois state and its neighbours to report to the european parliament on their activities. it is now imperative that the peoples strengthen their struggle to defend and extend democratic rights and freedoms. for their own, popular power, in which they can taste the true freedom that comes from abolishing the exploitation of man by man.
madam president, i believe that emsa must remain and expand in its core mission, which is to control safety at sea and to protect human life at sea and the environment. the report i have read opens up issues and overlaps with other issues such as piracy or the common coast guard, which can really change the character of emsa itself. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that there are many areas where the scientific evidence and the contribution of emsa are decisive in terms of pollution of marine areas, not only from ships but also from land-based industries and aquaculture. it can also help prevent accidents, protect human life at sea. i'll end with this fact: the cost of marine pollution on a global scale, in 2006 values, is 256 billion euros. the effects on the health of the inhabitants of coastal areas and on the environment are serious. the commission has a wide field of activity, so it must not be distracted and diverted to other areas of responsibility.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles is a very good one. public transport has been sold off to the monopoly groups. mass redundancies, the widespread introduction of flexible forms of employment and drastic wage cuts for workers in the sector. intensification of workers' work and lowering of safety standards, resulting in an increase in accidents. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the abolition of cabotage in greece, in sea and air transport, combined with the provocative support of transport groups, with a barrage of state subsidies, has led to the exclusion of remote island areas and huge increases in ticket prices. with the divestment of the ose, entire areas are cut off from rail service and thousands of workers are thrown onto the streets. the galley system also applies to air transport. the conclusion for the workers is that, as long as the profitability of the monopolies is the criterion, it will be impossible to meet the modern needs of the people.
in writing. the white paper is an ambitious plan which, by setting out strategic directions for each transport sector and priorities for how to get there, succeeds in bringing a heterogeneous sector into an ambitious sustainable vision for 2050. the grosch report adopts this vision, enriching it with a number of practical guidelines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is more important than ever to look carefully at the working conditions of the industry to ensure that the opening up of transport sectors does not mean a deterioration of working conditions. at the same time, without departing from the principle of subsidiarity, the commission's high ambitions for sustainable transport can be facilitated by new european initiatives on urban mobility. finally, the 2020 interim carbon reduction targets are the result of good intentions, but not of a comprehensive study. without a detailed assessment of the likely effects, it is difficult to predict that the 30% target for shipping emissions will have the desired effects and that the short time frame involved will not undermine the feasibility of the target and, therefore, the weight of parliament's objectives.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate and thank the polish presidency for its important contribution to critical issues over the last six months. a few days ago a pistol was found in the hand of a greek prisoner and then a major riot broke out in greece's largest prison. it was on the basis of this incident - and for this reason i am referring to it - that the issue of conditions of detention in prisons was again brought into the public debate. and greek prisons, like most european prisons, are overcrowded. i would like to point out that in greece the occupancy rate is about 142%, and it is certainly, as my colleagues have said, the duty of the member states under the european treaty to maintain humane conditions and to respect the minimum standards laid down by the european convention on human rights, the convention for the prevention of torture and, of course, the recommendation on european prison rules. but for all this to happen and for us to be able to maintain a high level of respect for all prisoners, there must also be adequate infrastructure and at a time when money for the creation of new prison institutions is limited - and we all realise this in the midst of the crisis - on the occasion of the presence of the commission, i would also like to ask and beg for an answer: how far is it possible to release funds from the different funds for these purposes, to create new correctional facilities in the member states?
mr president, today we are called upon to prove whether the european parliament remains true to its principles. given the human rights situation and, in particular, the situation of forced child labour, i believe it is impossible to give our consent to the modification of the partnership with uzbekistan without first ensuring that substantial changes are made in the policies of that country and, in particular, that forced child labour is brought to an end. the practices in this country are medieval in style and the government continues to deny that there is a problem. it is therefore necessary to allow the observers of the international labour organisation to be there and to have free access so that a proper assessment can be made. why is it not enough for uzbekistan to sign treaties under international pressure; it is not enough to have a common foreign policy. it is not possible for children to be deprived of schooling for three months to be sent to the cotton harvest, and for parents to be severely punished for refusal. once again, the union cannot turn a blind eye and have double standards in its practices because some european textile companies may be benefiting.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the commission on freedom of movement for workers within the european union by traian ungureanu, csaba őry, elena băsescu, iliana ivanova and marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000320/2011 – b7-0673/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on restrictions on free movement of workers by stephen hughes, rovana plumb and hannes swoboda, on behalf of the s & d group (o-000323/2011 – b7-0674/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for this lively discussion. i would like to start my answer by saying that, for the countries that joined the european union in 2007, the same transitional arrangements apply as for the intake of 2004, and the same arrangements also apply to croatia, for which the agreement was recently signed. this also allows us to look at the experience of the 2004 group by way of comparison. this i believe strongly supports the argument that the receiving countries hugely benefited from mobile workers from new member states, and also the united kingdom, on which there has been an exchange of views in the debate. i think it is very important to say that, despite the fact that the actual number of workers coming from poland and other countries was much higher than originally expected, we have to stress the enormous economic benefit of this contribution as opposed to speaking about these mobile workers being a burden on social security or the health care system. i think it is very useful to look at the debates in germany and austria, in which i participated in the spring period of this year, before 1 may, when these two countries also eventually had to open up their labour markets for the 2004 intake. there was clearly a feeling that these two countries probably lost out by maintaining the restrictions until the last possible day, and that perhaps it would have been much wiser for them to have opened up earlier, especially because of the specific demographic conditions of germany and also the very good labour market performance of the large number of vacancies this country has. i think this should be a lesson and an example for others. in the current situation, i think we have to look at the concrete labour market conditions in each and every country and not only the european average. as we all know, the european averages are not very encouraging. we have been stuck with a very high unemployment rate – about 10% – and the coming year is not expected to be very easy. however, this average masks very great discrepancies, and this is why i would agree with those who suggest that, in countries where the unemployment rate is very low, like austria or the netherlands, it will be very difficult to provide factual justification for the maintenance of these restrictions. i also have to stress that some members of the house rightly pointed to the very complex and sometimes (unfortunately) xenophobic discussions in the netherlands vis-à-vis mobile worker citizens from other eu member states. such discourse definitely does not help a constructive solution or response to this question to emerge. it is very clear that the economies of some of these countries we are speaking about need more workers, also from other eu countries. the business community is expressing this opinion, and i think wise policy-makers will pay attention to this. we have been engaged with the governments of these countries: i have written letters to all of them and explained what the rules are and what we expect. i can tell you that we have so far received only one notification or request from member states about the extension of the restrictions. previous experience has shown that member states tend to wait until the very end of the period to send their notifications, and so far only the united kingdom has sent one, on 24 november. this notification states that the uk decided to retain labour market restrictions following the advice from the independent migration advisory committee, which stated in its report of 4 november 2011 that, based on an analysis of recent labour market indicators, the uk labour market is in a state of serious disturbance and that removing existing restrictions would increase the risk of an increased inflow of eu2 nationals, with a potential negative impact on the uk labour market. as we know from new statistics, unemployment in the uk is at a 17-year high, but i think it has to be stressed that foreign workers should not be blamed for this. we have to look at the situation in the case of the uk and, should others come, on a case-by-case basis. the commission will check at the beginning of next year whether the member states that have a right in this context have provided, together with the notification, an explanation – with supporting evidence and pertinent arguments – on the existence of a serious labour market disturbance or threat thereof. if a member state has, for example, not provided an explanation at all or has not provided an explanation with sufficient data and pertinent arguments, the commission will ask the member state to provide the missing information. the commission services will examine the notification and the explanations and the data provided by the member states. i am planning to present my summary to the ministers in the epsco council in february.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr jens geier, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan (2011/2014 (ini)) (a7-0388/2011)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on such an interesting and vital subject as the budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan. our role and duty as the european parliament is to respect the principle of sound financial management of the financial support granted by the eu through the community budget, that is, through the money of the european taxpayers. compliance with this principle should apply to aid granted in the member states of the union as well as in third countries. in this spirit, i warmly support the rapporteur's call on the european commission to correct the weaknesses identified in the audit work by the european court of auditors and third party audit bodies. accountability should also be strengthened with regard to eu funds channelled to afghanistan and managed by certain un agencies, as eu institutions should have access to the internal reports of these agencies. through transparency and accountability we can ensure that the money of the union budget is spent correctly and efficiently.
the next item is the report by nicole kill-nielsen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu strategy for central asia (2011/2008 (ini)) (a7-0338/2011)
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome the european parliament draft resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for central asia. it is a timely contribution for the review of the strategy which will be undertaken over the coming year. central asia is a region of growing importance to the european union. the region borders afghanistan and faces security threats with implications for the eu. these implications include terrorism, drug trafficking and other cross-border crime. widespread poverty in some countries and incomplete political and economic reform processes pose challenges, not only for the countries themselves, but also for regional cooperation and security. at the same time the region is rich in resources and has the potential of diversifying energy export routes to the eu and contributing to eu energy security. there is significant interest among the countries in the region to strengthen relations with the eu. since the adoption of the strategy on central asia by the european council in 2007, the eu has managed with limited resources and within a relatively short time to significantly increase its role in central asia. our key role in close cooperation with the osce and the un in helping the kyrgyz republic to overcome its crisis last year and supporting the development of a parliamentary democracy there is a good example of the importance of our increased engagement. the strategy on central asia has led to other important developments worth noting. we have established regular high-level political dialogue between the eu and central asia regionally, at the level of foreign ministers. we have established regular human rights dialogues with all five countries. on energy, we are closer than ever to making our trans-caspian pipeline a reality, with the participation of turkmenistan in the southern energy gas corridor. in the sensitive area of water, we are now engaging in water policy dialogues to improve domestic water management polices, as has been done in eastern europe and the caucasus. on education, more central asian students than ever are coming to the eu and the eu is heavily involved with education sector reform in several countries. our technical assistance programme to support border management reform and combating drug trafficking remain among the leading international programmes in the region. as regards international financial institutions, the european bank for reconstruction and development continues to be a leading investor, to develop the private sector primarily, and we have expanded the mandate of the european investment bank to cover central asia, with a focus on energy and environment. we have managed to open new eu delegations in the region: in kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan, and hopefully also in turkmenistan in the not too distant future. the region more broadly continues to face difficult chapters and much remains to be done in terms of our relations with the region. the human rights situation is of general concern, as has been pointed out by ms alfano, and we need to see how best to make more of our engagements in this sensitive but very important area. as noted, we need to open delegations in all countries, which is important for increasing eu visibility and for promoting eu programmes, views and interests more efficiently. and given our admittedly limited financial resources for the region, the coordination of assistance with other international donors is crucial and has to be intensified continuously. the fact that our resources are limited has also made it increasingly important to focus our assistance, as the european parliament report rightly points out. this is already taking place with a limited amount of focal sectors per country. poverty alleviation remains a key objective and the poorest countries in the region – the kyrgyz republic and tajikistan – remain the primary beneficiaries of eu assistance. the region is diverse and, while we promote regional cooperation, notably on crucial issues such as water management, border management and drug trafficking, we have bilateral agendas with the five countries following their respective tracks, depending on individual needs and ambitions in terms of moving towards the eu and reform objectives. with kazakhstan for example, we just recently opened negotiations on an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which will be a first for the region. let me conclude by saying that the european parliament has an important role to play as we move forward in our relations with central asia. we strongly welcome european parliament visits to the countries and regular interparliamentary dialogue and the increased parliamentary engagement that the report envisages. again we welcome parliament’s report which provides important input for our upcoming review and i congratulate the rapporteur.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs karima deli, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on health and safety at work (2011/2147 (ini)) (a7-0409/2011)
madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank karima delli for her excellent report. i had the pleasure and honour of being the socialist shadow rapporteur on this report and i feel it is my duty to remind the house of the result of the vote on this report in committee: 36 votes in favour, only 2 against. i think it's a very important element. i should also remind you that asbestos kills workers; to remind workers that musculoskeletal disorders are a problem; i'm reminded that stress drives workers to suicide. our defence in all of this is a new strategy for health and safety in the workplace from 2012 onwards. our weapon to defend ourselves in this whole situation is a new legislation, a new directive. and that, commissioner, is in your own hands, you have all the scientific evidence, you have all the documentation and you have - most importantly - the support of the european parliament to go ahead and ensure health and safety conditions for workers, especially in these difficult times of economic crisis that europe is going through.
member of the commission. − madam president, in february 2007 the commission adopted a communication entitled ‘improving quality and productivity at work: community strategy 2007-2012 on safety and health at work’. the strategy provided a political framework for improving occupational safety and health over the period 2007 to 2012 and laid out a road map for stakeholders to play an active role in achieving the objectives it identified. the fact that it was welcomed by all eu institutions highlights the importance of such an eu strategic framework for coordinating national policy and ensuring that workers enjoy safer and healthier conditions at work. in particular, this house adopted a resolution on 15 january 2008 calling on the commission to report to it on progress made at the half-way stage. in april this year the commission published a staff working paper entitled ‘mid-term review of the european strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work’. it takes stock of what has been achieved now that the strategy has reached the half-way mark, re-examines the policy orientations and sets out proposals for the future of eu policy on safety and health at work. the results of the mid-term review confirm that the strategy remains broadly fit for purpose, despite the changes that have taken place in the union since 2007, and in particular the impact of the financial and economic crisis. the strategy’s prime objective is achieving an ‘ongoing, sustainable and uniform reduction in accidents at work and occupational illnesses’. given the overall reduction in incidence in the period covered by the previous eu strategy, the strategy set an ambitious target to reduce the total incidence of accidents at work in the 27 member states by 25% from 2007 to 2012. a final estimate for the whole period covered by the strategy may not be available until 2014. this is because of time constraints related to collecting and processing national data by eurostat. the findings in the mid-term review show a general positive development involving a reduction in accidents at work over the period 2007 to 2009. but, despite this progress, there is still work to do under the current strategy. from the commission’s viewpoint, the assessment of the first part of the period covered by the strategy highlights a number of priorities. first, there is a need to simplify and update existing legislation and finalise proposals for legislation, after consulting the social partners and the stakeholders extensively. this relates in particular to the proposal for a revision of directive 2004/40/ec on electromagnetic fields (the commission proposal was adopted in june 2011 and is now being discussed by the co-legislators) and the proposal for a new directive on ergonomics to replace the existing manual handling and display screen equipment directives (the commission proposal may be adopted in the first half of 2012). furthermore, the commission will carry out an extensive screening of the implementation of all eu health and safety legislation, covering the period 2007 to 2012. the commission is required to present its final report on this in 2015 at the latest. second, we need to consolidate the encouraging results of the first phase of implementation and to take them further in terms of adopting and implementing national strategies for occupational safety and health. third, we need to build on experience with scoreboard 2009, with a view to developing a structured and commonly-accepted monitoring tool for evaluating future eu strategies for occupational safety and health. fourth, we need to carry out the final evaluation of the current strategy and, based on the findings, to identify the next steps in the health and safety area for the period after 2012. the commission welcomes the parliament’s decision to discuss and adopt a report on the mid-term review of the eu strategy on health and safety at work. i appreciate the ambitious nature of this document and share the house’s view of the importance of occupational safety and health policy, which is one of the most advanced areas of european social policy. the importance of health and safety at work does not diminish at a time of crisis and my recent visit to the bilbao agency for occupational health and safety was meant to signal this. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, improving working conditions goes naturally with job creation, promoting permanent employment and higher productivity, as the commission highlighted in its communication on ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs’. in 2012 the commission will complete the final evaluation of the current strategy and adopt a communication on eu occupational safety and health policy priorities for the post-2012 period based on the results of that evaluation. i can also add that i have started to work very closely with the danish presidency to keep health and safety among our priorities in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which sets out a comparative approach to eu and us practices in controlling financial support to afghanistan. the funds are normally managed through ngos, for-profit contractors, donors and direct financial support to the afghan government. however, as the structures in afghanistan are not comparable to those in developed countries, it is necessary to be aware that the afghan audit office is currently not independent from the afghan executive, and therefore does not meet international auditing standards. at the same time, there is limited freedom of access to internal audit reports, which calls into question the transparency of the procedures.
in writing. although i always vote in favour of using the globalisation fund, in this case i voted against. the request concerns the renault car company, in which the french state also holds shares. renault, despite the economic crisis, continues to make large profits but has for years been using money from the state and european budgets to carry out mass layoffs of workers. in this case, it wants to do the same for 3,000 workers, that is, not to secure from its own money and profits the necessary for the compulsory benefits and the 'social plan' which, according to french legislation, it must implement. as the french unions have also complained, renault has for years done nothing to protect workers' rights or to preserve jobs. finally, this issue seeks to take financial responsibility for the negative consequences of the reform of the pension system in france. but we cannot support that. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social security scheme for the elderly, which is a new approach to social security.
in writing. the macroeconomic imbalance scoreboard is a key tool for the implementation of the economic governance legislative framework. for the united left, this economic governance package is the wrong answer to the crisis. it is not about coordinating economies, as it claims, but about imposing a permanent austerity pact on all workers throughout europe. as can be seen from the composition of this scoreboard, as it has been formulated, convergence is translated into an increase in competitiveness through the institutionalisation of austerity and the reduction of wages, pensions and benefits. indicators related to income inequality and poverty reduction are absent from the table, while the unemployment indicator has very little weight. the eurozone is facing huge structural problems which create imbalances and are particularly burdensome for workers in both surplus and deficit countries. as the economic governance package, and therefore the macroeconomic imbalance scoreboard, cannot offer fair and radical solutions for europe's exit from the crisis and the sustainability of its economic functioning, i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which is of great interest in view of the job insecurity in many eu member states due to the economic crisis and high unemployment rates. it is crucial to mention that member states should increase the staff and resources for labour inspection and achieve the target of one inspector per 10,000 workers, as recommended by the labour inspection organisation, which is currently not being met. at the same time, greater emphasis on mental health issues among workers is necessary to make them part of the process of identifying and preventing risks in their workplace.
