mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i am pleased that the issue of international adoption, the issue of abandoned children, has been put on the agenda of the european parliament. i think it is extremely important that the protection of children as a whole should be a top priority both in the european parliament and in the european union. in the defense of abandoned, neglected children, we all need to set an example. they too have the right to grow up to be healthy, both physically and mentally. and it's essential that these abandoned, abandoned, orphaned children grow up in healthy families. we must do everything we can to ensure that as few children as possible end up in orphanages. the theme of abandoned children is particularly relevant in an ageing europe where every child is a guarantee of our own future.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on childcare. in the context of intercountry adoption, the oral questioners' main concern was the legal environment. review of practice is as important as legislation. new or good policy decisions, new regulatory environments can only be created with reliable data, statistics and actual practice. it is only on the basis of accurate data that it can be determined whether it is necessary to regulate at all, and i therefore consider the question raised by my colleagues to be of paramount importance. however, since i think this whole issue needs to be dealt with very comprehensively, i would like to take a step back from the questionnaires. i would like to ask the commission the following questions: do we have accurate statistics on intercountry adoptions within the union and those involving third countries? what exactly is the data that we're collecting on this? what methods? who collects the data and if member states do, is the methodology consistent? if intercountry adoption is carried out either within the union or with the assistance of a third party, what is the selection and pre-preparation of parents and children? how do we check the readiness? do we have a set of rules for this? what are the differences between member states' practices? is there an age limit for both the adopter and the child? do adoptive parents receive ongoing professional support? is there reliable, regular follow-up? is it possible to know how often and what kind of problems foster parents encounter? what assistance do member states provide in problematic cases? thank you for your attention, and thank you for the excellent work of the officer.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. in hungary, until last may, a coalition of socialists and liberals had been in power for eight years. for eight years, democracy in hungary has been steadily weakening, and human rights violations have become widespread. freedom of the press has been weakened in hungary for eight years. the european socialists and european liberals had no say in this matter. last may, the overwhelming majority of hungarian citizens overthrew this socialist-liberal government and brought the fidesz-christian democratic government to power with a majority unprecedented in europe. this government passed a new media law late last year that guarantees freedom of the press. in these circumstances, hungary and the hungarian government holding the presidency of the union are under sharp attack. this double standard is incompatible with european values. we must speak out against this.
(the member's microphone was not on, so the beginning of the sentence cannot be heard)...the extraordinary meeting of the committee. what else would the topic be, besides the hungarian media law? i did not want to believe my ears when influential socialist and liberal members of parliament demanded that the european union initiate what they called serious infringement proceedings against hungary, the current incumbent president. this is the most severe sanction available. this sanction, or any sanction, was not used when, between 2002 and 2010, the socialist and liberal government in hungary dispersed every single demonstration, arbitrarily imprisoned hundreds of people, shot out eyes and caused serious injuries. if the european union then starts a serious infringement procedure against the current hungarian government and state, it will finally open the eyes of those who had any illusions about the european union's attitude towards hungary, and i think that the hungarian nation will demand our exit from the european union, and there will be those who will follow us.
ensuring a secure food supply for the union will be one of the major security policy challenges of the coming decades. this is the biggest value of the sârbu report, which indicates that in a decade or two, food and fresh water will be as strategic as oil and natural gas are now. the timing of the report is also good, given the ongoing debate on the future of the cap, the budgetary planning for the period after 2014 and the many calls for the cap budget to be cut. it is very important that this common agricultural policy has adequate resources in the future. to do this, we must convince the finance ministers, the decision-makers, that the food industry in the european union not only produces food, but also public goods, environmental, social public goods, which we could not guarantee or produce in any way without agriculture.
on the subject of food safety, i find it disturbing that the report treats the countries of the european union as a single entity. the situation in the new member states is quite different from that in the old ones. let me ask you two questions about hungary. how is it possible that in a country with wonderful agricultural capabilities, we can talk about child hunger? in the heart of the european union, children and adults are starving. my second question is how is it possible that our agriculture has changed in such an unhealthy direction that we produce raw materials on huge areas in an industrial way, first of all - excuse the expression - but in a colonial way, and of course the processing of this food takes place abroad, there is produced the profit, which is then - again only by bringing back to hungary the processed food - realized at high prices. there's something fundamentally wrong with all of this.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the report makes it clear that the agricultural sector cannot go on as before. we can no longer have people shipping from one end of the world to the other, or big companies shipping agricultural products. well, that could work in an unnatural way. they import apples, peppers, tomatoes into europe, including hungary, and not from spain or holland, but mostly from china, brazil, and meat products. it's okay, but you have to put those products on a transportation vehicle, say a ship, and they travel for weeks or months. they have to be preserved with various preservatives that are toxic to humans if consumed in large quantities. now people in the big retail chains get these products and then they wonder what all these diseases, tumors, cancers are. well, obviously, food coloring and artificial additives are the culprits. i should add that small farmers must be supported so that they can be europe's lifeline in the face of an emerging food crisis, and that is why small farmers must be supported instead of multinationals.
mr president, we are discussing the poorest of the poor – the european roma – and, together with the new hungarian presidency, we are all addressing the european roma strategy. among inter-sectoral issues that concern the poorest of the poor, agriculture is very rarely addressed, notably because no land is owned by the poorest of the poor in europe. so we are talking not just about food security but about having food on the table. as one of my colleagues has already said, this is an essential question for the eu today. i believe that the agricultural sector – and the commission’s work on these documents – has to be in line with all the eu micro-regional development projects which are concerned with fighting poverty and securing food on the table for future generations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in my view the report on serbia is excellent. i congratulate the rapporteur, jelko kacin. it seems to me that serbia has finally made up its mind that it genuinely wants a european future for itself. the majority of the political elite believes that this is the most favourable option. this determination has to be seen in the light of the turbulence of the last two decades. serbia experienced the end of communism, the collapse of yugoslavia, the wars that ensued, the rule of slobodan milošević, the bombing of 1999, burgeoning mafias and criminality, violence, refugees – a depressing and traumatic history. the decision to opt for europe, therefore, is a considerable achievement and signals that serbia has become a factor of stability in the region. two major political problems remain: the arrest and transfer of ratko mladić to the hague, and coming to terms with the independence of kosovo. both these point towards psychological barriers. mladić has his protectors, and the loss of kosovo is painful for a sizeable section of serbian society; any loss of territory is painful. to these may be added several other areas that need attention, notably the upgrading of public administration and of the administration of justice, the establishment of market conditions and full openness towards serbia’s past, including opening up the archives. the auguries for serbia’s road towards europe are reasonably good. there is a clear commitment in this direction. the tasks faced by the elite and by society are recognised and the technical preparations are going ahead. if all goes well, serbia should receive the opinion this autumn and candidate status after that. the road to europe will not be easy, but europe as a whole benefits from a stable, democratic serbia.
mr. commissioner, the secretary of state. first of all, congratulations to both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the fact that the right compromises were made in this text and that we are talking about a good report. in the past year serbia has made serious progress towards integration in many respects, and these are taken into account in the report, so i would just highlight a few points. the first is the issue of visa-free travel, which the serbian authorities should take very seriously and continue to do everything possible to inform citizens not to take advantage of this opportunity, otherwise the access of future young people to a european perspective would be compromised, because this visa-free travel, which we have always advocated, is precisely about the accession of young generations to europe, and this cannot be played off. at the same time, serbia should make immediate progress in its cooperation with the icc and present the results of the negotiations with kosovo. but what i would like to highlight is the issue of minority rights listed in the copenhagen criteria. i am glad that the report has addressed these issues in time, as serbia needs to continue its work in this area: the laws on the statute of vojvodina, on the national councils, need to be put into practice in such a way that they can really have an impact. and the union must learn from the 2004 and 2007 accessions that these ... (the president withdrew)
dear secretary of state, officer earle, please. we are not just closing a process, but i hope that we will start accession negotiations this year, as serbia has achieved a lot of results in the last period. i would like to point out that attorney general brammertz himself considers cooperation with the hague tribunal to be unobjectionable. this has been a delicate issue for a long time. the same applies to the nato partnership, and what i consider particularly important in the case of the western balkans, serbia has an exemplary minority policy which can also be an example for many eu member states, because the broad cultural autonomy that is shown in the actual functioning of the councils of the various national minorities guarantees the survival of the minorities, and in the case of kosovo, too, there is very significant progress, which is emotionally a very complex, complex issue, but serbia is on a very good track... (the president withdrew)
as a hungarian, i am very happy to have the hungarian presidency and i wish the council every success, but at the same time this speech on serbia's accession to the eu caused me some sadness and a sense of loss. there was no mention of the extremely serious human rights violations committed against our brothers in south-western hungary, and i would like to ask whether the hungarian presidency or the commission is aware of the reports of human rights organisations or the reports of observers on the one hand and the case of the temerini boys on the other. the temerini boys are the flagrant violation of the rights of five young men who were sentenced to an exaggerated total of 61 years in prison for a bar fight, which they must serve under torture, inhumane, cruel treatment in third world conditions. this is complemented by the fact that at the same time the most brutal crimes committed against hungarians are not investigated. do they know... (the president withdraws)
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the eu-serbia association agreement was ratified by hungary on 16 november 2010. hungary, which was still preparing for the eu presidency, did not learn from its historical mistake when it could have tied romania's accession to the territorial self-determination of the indigenous hungarian minorities in transylvania. we are still experiencing the results of this missed opportunity: the desecration of hungarian cemeteries, the silent genocide of hungarians in transylvania. the eu and the hungarian foreign ministry should uphold the protection of minorities throughout the eu-serbia association agreement. the union is under great pressure to present accession to the union as an attainable goal for candidate countries by concluding and accelerating association agreements. while jobbik supports the accession of croatia as a country that meets the conditions, it strongly opposes further hasty steps towards serbia. the conditions for the further accession process should include a much greater degree of self-determination and full territorial and cultural autonomy for the indigenous hungarian minority in serbia. we should not dismiss the idea that the people of the south could express their will on the question of their territorial affiliation by means of a referendum, thereby alleviating the unforgettable injuries suffered by the hungarians in trianon.
mr president, i would like to ask mr swoboda how he dares to criticise the hungarian presidency when it is just starting. he does not even know anything about it. why does he not instead criticise his comrades in the socialist group who were shooting at their own people on the 50th anniversary of the 1956 revolution and who arbitrarily imprisoned hundreds of people? he should ask them and criticise them.
mr president, dear friends, dear belgian friends, i would like to congratulate you, hats off! as a hungarian, i would be very happy to see such a great success during the hungarian presidency. and i will continue to do so. the belgian government has succeeded in preventing the outbreak of the euro-european crisis. the record was set by irish mentőcsomagot. the new economic policy coordination system was prepared, and the hungarian government prepared for the adoption of the new legislation. the commission has also established a financial control system, a national financial service system and a national initiative. the only full recognition that can be said about this is that progress has been made in the practical implementation of the lisbon treaty, but a number of open questions remain. once again, i congratulate my belgian friends and hope that we will have as much success during the hungarian presidency.
in writing. − i cannot support an initiative that facilitates or accelerates the import of any genetically modified crop. within the european union, the excellent soil conditions allow many countries - including hungary, poland, italy and france - to produce high-quality feed. we don't need genetically engineered feed variants! i also do not support the import of genetically modified products into the european union because of their long-term adverse health effects.
mr. president, fellow members of the house, madam secretary of state. i personally support the report on the enforcement of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. many examples demonstrate that many people turn to other member states for adequate healthcare. we are all familiar with the kohl case in luxembourg, which is proof of this. unfortunately, the external and internal differences in the eu, and i mean the differences between the western and eastern parts of the eu, are not just economic differences, differences in social care, but also a deep gap in health care, and it is the task of the european parliament to reduce these differences, that is, to reduce the differences between western and eastern europe, because with uniformly good health care, the number of people who need to use health care from one member state to another can be reduced. in addition, it is essential to harmonise the role of health insurers, so that the principle of free movement is not undermined. in addition, i consider it necessary to coordinate the recommendations of the college of experts so that the same treatments are applied in each member state to the same groups of diseases. health cannot be a privilege, and the same disease cannot be treated differently in hungary just because it's eastern europe and the financial situation is worse, and in sweden just because it's western europe and the financial situation is better.
mr. president, i have to go. i welcome the first debate of the hungarian presidency. my first comment is that it was worthwhile to negotiate outside the services directive, as there are many specific features of cross-border health. i'd like to congratulate the reporters, the shadow reporters, john on the pitch. it is very, very important, however, not to question the member states' obligation to provide basic services. member states are responsible for providing for those living in their own country. it is very important that the directive is not a privilege for the rich, but a means of better treating rare diseases. that was our goal. and one very important aspect is that it allows for better use of natural resources. i'm thinking of the thermal baths in hungary, which are much more effective in treating certain diseases and cannot be moved. obviously, the patients have to come here. it is very important that we continue along this path so that the healthy, the sick, the people of europe feel that the european union is about them, that it is for them.
i would like to ask the representatives of the hungarian presidency, the council, to use this six-month period, the six-month period of the hungarian presidency, to bring the specific problems of the new member states, the post-communist countries and hungary into these discussions. for example, when it comes to introducing a cross-border, european-scale, quasi-uniform healthcare system, we should not forget to deal with the problem that in hungary, for example, skilled and well-trained nurses work for salaries of around 250 euros per month, doctors work for salaries of 500 euros, 600 euros. does the european union not think that it is highly unethical, immoral and unacceptable to celebrate some kind of unified european health care without paying attention to salaries ... (the president withdrew)
officer dalli, this is secretary of state gyori. i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête on her report. i'd highlight four elements. first of all, it is very important to set up national contact points to provide information, to inform patients. it's very important that we know exactly when to pre-authorize the terms. it's very important for rare diseases. it is very important that as a general rule the patient should not be obliged to pay an advance and finally - which is very important for hungary and central europe - cross-border health areas, because along the german-austrian border or along the hungarian-slovak, hungarian-romanian border, where the language and state borders do not coincide, there is a lot of undeveloped and superfluous, unused health capacity, and there are no language barriers. congratulations again.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. during the committee discussion on the draft directive on cross-border patient rights, few people, like my colleague peter liese, saw the legislation as an opportunity rather than a threat. we hungarians share this opinion. the compromise now reached, which can be seen as a good compromise between patient rights and member state fears, is very different from the previous draft report, but the opportunity remains. a small step in the right direction, so to speak. what is this option? whereas many have envisioned the sudden influx of unrealistically large numbers of foreign patients and the collapse of national health systems, i believe that there is a greater opportunity for us to take advantage of our country's natural resources in the future. and i'm not just talking about our healing waters, but the geography and the cost of skilled labor. finally, healthcare professionals will have the opportunity to better exploit their expertise and any spare capacity. the patient also benefits from being able to use health services that are not available in his own country due to certain natural conditions in another member state without any obstacles. healthcare workers and patients have thus benefited, but member states can also rest assured thanks to the numerous brakes that the directive has put in place. i congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have contributed to the success of this report.
mr. president, i have to go. i was delighted to hear the report of the commissioner and i would like to ask some questions. when we received the report a few weeks ago from the commission and the european investment fund, it was only a couple of hundred million euros in total, and one of my questions was precisely that the original pledge or plan was for 500 million. i wonder where these extra resources came from. i think it's very important because it's a very important program to mitigate the effects of the crisis, and that's why we rushed to adopt it. the other important question was whether member states support interest subsidies and training and mentoring elements from the social fund. it was also in the original plan and then it seemed that the commission had neglected this issue. it's very important to get information out, to get information to people.
mr. president, i have to go. mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. the issue of euro stability, the solution of the crisis management mechanism, is one of our most important operational tasks, by initiating growth that creates new jobs, while reducing national debts, all member states agree. but solving these problems should not prevent us from discussing issues, strategic issues, such as innovation, which we did in december. the next summit in february will be a good opportunity to make important strategic decisions on an important issue such as energy. the hungarian presidency has begun preparations for the energy summit. the most important rules have been born in the last year. the gas security regulation has come into force. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would ask you to reassure me that the energy summit cannot be overshadowed by concerns about the stability of the euro area.
on behalf of the ecr group. i cannot know what this country means to others, my native land here, a small country embraced by these flames, the far-off world of my childhood. i am grown from him like a weak branch from a tree trunk, and i hope that my body will be buried in this earth. "i am home", wrote miklós radnóti. hungary is at home in europe, worthy of the presidency. but is the hungarian government home? is he worthy of the office? it's not just the media bill, there are nine other elephants. a series of gross violations of the sophisticated system of checks and balances that is inherent in democracy. unjustified dismissal from public service. the crisis tax is excessive, discriminatory and distorting. supporting the rich at the expense of the poor. the budget council is dissolved, like in venezuela. the reduction of the autonomy of the ticket bank, which will be withdrawn soon. 98% special tax on final compensation with retroactive effect. constitutional amendment nine times in seven months. limitation of the powers of the ad. nationalizing the private pension system with open blackmail, like in bolivia. tax evasion as a government policy: a cocktail party. populist hatchet-wielding in the lawn. it's the breaking of the fabric of society, of solidarity. heller, jános kornai, and jenő ranschburg are world-renowned hungarian scientists. the belgian presidency was a success, mr verhovstadt said yesterday, because the government's attention was not diverted from europe by domestic tasks. now the opposite threatens. the chaos and diplomatic debris at home is distracting the government and the european public from europe. it would be a shame. i, as a hungarian, do not want this shame. it's not too late to turn the tide.
my colleagues! in 1956, hungary showed the world that oppression and lies must be confronted. even if it seems hopeless. then this was our historic mission. it's the same thing. the world today is built on two pillars of lies and oppression. one is that global capital and banks are privatizing the profits, and then nationalizing the losses and their costs, and passing them on to the firefighters, nurses, teachers, pensioners, who are suffering more and more. the other pillar is to make it appear that - and this is especially true of politicians who represent global capital and banks rather than representing the interests of the people - that this is the natural, or at least the only way, to do it. the hungarian presidency and hungary, my country, must show that this is not the case, that the king is naked. instead of thinking about profit and money, we need to show that there is a thinking about people and justice, where we don't always ask what's best for money and profit, but we ask what's best for people and justice. i wish my freedom-loving country, hungary, much success. the intervener undertakes to reply to a question with a blue card (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
my dear fellow congressman. if i thought that right-wing and left-wing signs still made sense, this year and a half in the european union has convinced me that they don't make sense anymore. you on the left are constantly representing the interests of big business and the banks, and you don't care what the people want. they've completely forgotten the original ideas. you mentioned your ancestor, marx, today. what he said about justice will never be invoked here again. you are the biggest oppressors of working people. that's one of the things. the other is the media law, which is hungary's internal affairs... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to address you on behalf of the hungarian delegation of the european people's party. i am a person with a disability myself, and i may be more sensitive than average to discrimination or double standards. that is why i am watching with concern the political witch-hunt that we are witnessing in this room today, in connection with the hungarian media law. fidesz hungarian civic association has proven time and again that it works with respect for common european values and for press freedom. european values are also obligations. the next hungarian presidency will prove that for six months. their goals prove it. economic governance, energy policy, or the strategy of the roma. these directions and strategies demonstrate our common values and our common goals for a strong europe. europe is not just a community of interests, it is a community of values. in fact, you're now disregarding these goals, these values. they make statements without waiting for the european commission's opinion, they make malicious slanders, they make exaggerated and unfounded statements. is the aim to weaken hungary's presidency? in fact, the european union is doing the whole european community a disservice. we are facing the gravest crisis of our time. that's irresponsible. as a member of the epp delegation, i would refuse. i hope that the hungarian presidency will continue to work despite the slanders and indeed that it will continue with the programme of a strong europe. i agree with the title of the program. we're going to achieve so much more by standing together, and we need to move forward.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! mr prime minister! it is in the interest of the european union and hungary, and of all hungarian patriots, regardless of party affiliation, that the hungarian presidency be a success. this is all the more important given the extraordinary challenges facing the union and the euro area today. you're a man of purpose. i ask you to put this capacity at the service of europe as president of the union, so that europe can be much more dynamic and effective, while preserving the rules of democracy and defending the values of the european social model. unfortunately, the current debate indicates that the hungarian presidency is off to a stormy start. do you feel, mr. prime minister, the great distrust in europe of your government? in several eu member states, regardless of party affiliation, your government's anti-democratic measures, economic populism, media law, and permissive far-right behaviour are considered to be contrary to eu norms and values. the eu presidency cannot give immunity from criticism, and you should set an example in upholding the eu's core values. the famous words of attila: 'i am angry for you, not against you', when justified criticisms are made, the union is angry for the hungarian government, not against it. and this criticism does not particularly affect the hungarian people. prime minister! i want to live this term as a hungarian and a european with a proud, uplifted head.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! mr prime minister! i wanted to talk about the hungarian presidency, although the speakers before me were upset and i have to give in to the provocation to talk about the hungarian media law. simply put, the movement for the betterment of hungary has also attacked the language law in hungary. we don't agree with him. but, come on, seeing all these cloak-wrappers, all these hypocrites in one place, it's art. where were you when the slovaks introduced the language law, where was cohn-bendit when the hungarians in the south were intimidated by serbian extremists, where was schulz martin when the graves in the south, the hungarian graves, the hungarian graves in transylvania were vandalized? that's why the double standard. i cannot accept the criticism that is allowed against the hungarian government and the hungarian presidency. jobbik has always made positive proposals in relation to the empty mszmp or mszp damages. yes, we must raise the issue of the slovak language law, yes, we must raise the issue of the abolition of the beneš decrees, yes, we must raise the issue of szekler's territorial self-determination, yes, we must raise the issue of stopping and eliminating the criminalization of roma in hungary and throughout europe, and it would be good if the hungarian government could at least concentrate on its domestic task to finally put the former hungarian dictator, ferenc gyurcsány, behind bars, in accordance with the will of millions of hungarian voters. i wish you the best of luck in your presidency, these are the real issues.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow members of the house of representatives! energy security has been one of the key issues and challenges of the european union since its foundation. for a long time, we thought that the most critical thing was to reduce our dependence on energy sources. however, the economic crisis has clearly demonstrated that access and affordability are paramount. this year is the first year in which more people in hungary have frozen to death in unheated apartments than on the streets. in the last few days, the residents of a panel apartment have asked to have their heating turned off because they can't pay. my fellow members of the house of representatives! as one of the effects of the economic crisis, it is very important that we address the issue of energy security. and all this while having an aging energy infrastructure. the most important task of the hungarian presidency at the energy summit is to lay the foundations for this infrastructure, not only for gas but also for electricity. we need to not develop the networks of the past, but to guarantee investors and capital capacity for the smart energy networks of the future. the hungarian government should ensure that all member states support the improvement of safety in nuclear waste management. we need to make sure that all of this stays within the budget. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it doesn't take a hot head and cold blood, but a clean head, a clean heart, a clean eye. we'll be your partners in solving these questions.
mr prime minister! my fellow officers. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european roma strategy was first launched by the european parliament in early 2008, and in the three years since then a whole series of eu actions and documents have signalled the importance of fighting the exclusion and poverty of europe's 12 million roma. as a fidesz representative and the only roma representative in the european parliament, i am proud that the new hungarian government was the first in a series of council presidencies to fully embrace its commitment and mission to a european response. the social inclusion of roma is one of the most pressing challenges facing europe today. it is also one of the most promising opportunities for our ageing societies. the integration of roma is not only a human rights obligation, but also an economic necessity. as rapporteur for the european parliament on this subject, i sincerely hope that, on the basis of the parliament's report and the commission's forthcoming communication, the hungarian presidency will succeed in putting together a genuine community strategy which identifies this target group in an economic rather than an ethnic context, which strengthens the implementation of the directives on equal opportunities, and which takes account of the territorial nature of exclusion and alleviates the disadvantages of those living in micro-regions. mr prime minister! this process is about much more than a european roma strategy: it is about mutual trust, about whether europe can build a community of values and tackle the challenges we face. i wish you luck in your great endeavors. it's summer time!
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the context of the media law, let me use the following analogy: in 1956, the majority of the western communist parties and a great many western leftist liberal intellectuals condemned the hungarian revolutionaries and in their turn defended the soviet bolsheviks. it is mutatis mutandis. something similar is happening now. many of our western socialist and liberal colleagues are siding with former communists and ultra-liberals against the real change-makers, the followers of the late antall józsef, the freedom fighters of viktor orbán. this is reflected in the media law. ladies and gentlemen! it is no accident that we confuse the levitated champions and heirs of the past, the post-communists, with the true leftists. they're not the same thing. at that time, albert camus had to find out who was really on the side of the soviet stalinists and the hungarian freedom fighters.
in writing. no one can deny that hungary's presidency has had a stormy start. i was hoping that the hungarian prime minister's convincing appearance in strasbourg would allay my concerns. i'm sorry it didn't work out that way. viktor orbán did not present himself to the european parliament's political groups as a european politician seeking consensus and compromise, but as a fighter who plays on populist, nationalist chords and defends the hungarian people against attacks. however, neither the hungarian people nor the hungarian government were insulted in the parliament. the more criticism was voiced about fidesz's troubling actions, including the media law. the most offensive tone was taken by eurosceptics and right-wing extremists, who in striking unison slammed critics of the hungarian government. i regret that the implementation of the hungarian presidency programme may be jeopardised by the government's actions attacking the rule of law. the continuation of this stormy beginning, contrary to the warning of viktor orbán, will not depend on the european parliament, but on whether fidesz and its leader are ready and able to conduct a politics that respects european values both at home and on the european stage. the prime minister cannot have two hats - a head of government for domestic use and a presidential hat worn in europe - but only one: a politician who respects the principles and values we all share.
in writing. – i feel proud that my country is the current president of the council. what i would like to mention, rather than the lack of democratic commitment on the part of the orbán government, is the total absence of gender issues among the presidency priorities. there is only one plausible reference to the problem, and – at a time when women in europe are threatened by the aftermath of a devastating economic crisis, as their unemployment is skyrocketing, as conservative governments cut back on social services and introduce disadvantageous taxation systems – that is not much. social inclusion, demographic challenges, etc. are all important issues but the situation of women needs to be assessed separately because their problems and needs are different from those of men: on the labour market and in relation to pension and healthcare schemes, taxation systems, etc. i am asking hungary not to be afraid to use the influence of the rotating council presidency for the benefit of women. make sure that the council adopts the maternity leave directive as parliament voted for it; step up sexual and reproductive health rights (starting in hungary, of course); work towards a gender-sensitive realisation of the eu 2020 strategy; and lobby for a gender-sensitive eu budget.
in writing. − i was able to support the report, which agrees with the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between cameroon and the european union, in the vote. i think it is very important that cameroon, which exports the majority of hardwoods from africa to europe, should apply strict regulations to this activity. we cannot allow this abuse to continue, this environmental damage to continue. an effective and transparent control system needs to be put in place. i am convinced that european politicians must pay particular attention to the protection of the environment and support all efforts to protect and help protect the environment, not only in europe but also in the whole of our globe.
in writing. − there are serious shortcomings in respect for human rights in serbia. hungarian citizens are treated as second-class citizens, and police overreach is common. the investigation into the temerin boys has not yet been completed. until there is measurable progress on these issues, i cannot support serbia's european integration process. i also consider it imperative that the indigenous hungarian people in the south should be granted full territorial self-determination.
in writing. − i agree with the report that it is important to combine different approaches to treating the disease. early diagnosis and prevention are crucial as 1.4 million people develop dementia in europe each year. better coordination between member states is also essential. i also support the need to seek the widest possible coverage and equal treatment of patients, regardless of age, gender, financial resources or place of residence, in terms of access to treatment.
mr. president, i have to go. as a romanian minority, i know what religious persecution meant under ceausescu's dictatorship. i am glad that today prime minister viktor orbán has mentioned among his priorities the fight against christian persecution. i think and i ask that commissioner ashton cooperate with the hungarian presidency in this regard. we were in istanbul recently and we saw and heard that millions of armenians and greek christians were killed during the 20th century. sadly, persecution of christians continues in our world today. i am proposing, together with mrs hautala, that this topical issue be placed on a separate agenda in the committee on budgets. on the other hand, i ask mrs. ashton that at the foreign ministers' meeting on january 31st, they seriously discuss and make the protection of christians a foreign policy priority.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank the members of parliament for their remarks. i will send the rapporteur, ms gomes, more details of national indicative plans for the years 2011-2013, showing eur 60 million being provided for our programmes in libya. i am fully aware that certain topics are problematic in relations with libya. nonetheless, the european union has taken the option of building relations with libya in order to be able to address all issues in an open and constructive manner, including very sensitive ones like human rights, the respect for fundamental freedoms and the rights of migrants. last year, i visited the detention centre in the libyan desert with cecilia malmström. i have absolutely no illusions about the challenges we face. i also had the opportunity to understand what the alternatives are to our engagement in the field of migration. let me add a third, personal remark: we are not rewarding anyone with these negotiations; we are taking care of our interests in accordance with the values we believe in. libya has shown its strong will to deepen relations with the european union. we consider that this is positive and that the european union should continue to pursue the policy of engagement. i am, of course, committed to ensuring that this will be done with full transparency, taking the views of the european parliament into account.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 20 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
thank you, madam member for your remarks, and i will conclude this debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i now turn to the last report of the day, namely an oral question to the council and the commission on the costs incurred in the member states in examining asylum applications. first of all, i'd like to give the floor to the author, mrs nadja hirsch. you have two minutes. - having regard to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the participation of norway in the european atomic energy community (oj l 347, 20.12.2001, p. 1), and in particular article 4 (2) (a) thereof,
member of the commission. − mr president, i have listened carefully to the views expressed by members of this house. the asylum procedures directive is an essential element of the common european asylum system that will need to be established before the end of 2012. the commission welcomes the commitment of the european parliament to proceed with the negotiations on the asylum procedures directive. as regards the negotiations in the council, the commission appreciates the commitment of the member states to discuss the proposal in an open and constructive manner. several elements of the proposal proved, nevertheless, to be difficult indeed. thus, to facilitate the adoption of the directive the commission intends to adopt a modified proposal before the start of the polish presidency. the commission’s overall objective regarding this directive is to progress towards a common procedure and to facilitate more consistent and efficient application of procedural standards. the modified proposal will continue to promote respect for fundamental rights and high-quality decision-making at first instance, which will result in solid decisions and faster conclusions of procedures, hence leading to a reduction of costs. in the modified proposal the commission will aim to simplify certain provisions with a view to facilitating their application. the commission will continue to endeavour to ensure proper balance between fairness and efficiency of procedures. concerning specifically the financial impacts, the commission fully understands the importance attached to the cost-related elements of this proposal, and will continue to be attentive to the cost aspects during the next stages of the negotiations. let me close by stressing that the opinion of the european parliament is, of course, a key benchmark which will allow the commission to take into account parliament’s position when preparing the modified proposal. we will continue to work with parliament and the council towards progress on this proposal within the context of the wider asylum package.
the president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? officer, please! ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, thank you very much for this valuable discussion. i am also grateful for the opportunity to discuss specifics, and i am sure that this will help to ensure that the new draft commission proposal takes these aspects into account. it was about establishing minimum common standards, putting a uniform system in place to stop bad practices, being efficient and cost-effective, and not allowing any abuse. i think these are all very important elements that we need to work together on. let me conclude with a final thought. we are proud to be part of a community in the european union that places human dignity at the heart of its values. and the refugee issue is one where the primacy of human dignity is our most important compass. the hungarian presidency considers the human factor to be the most important factor in all eu policies. the prime minister said this morning that in the current situation of the european union, it is true that we need a clear head, but we must also prove that we have a heart. he did it in the context of roma politics. i think we have to say, on the issue of asylum, that yes, the union has to be able to show that it has a heart. the hungarian presidency will continue the work carried out by the belgian presidency. in our programme, in this green booklet which was delivered to every member yesterday, you can read on page 25 that one of our priorities in the area of the home affairs and justice council is the common european asylum system. i also said in my first speech this evening, and more specifically than in the brochure, that we wanted to reach agreement in the council on both the dublin regulation and the qualifications directive. so i hope that on this basis you will accept that the hungarian presidency is indeed taking this issue seriously and we look forward to your cooperation.
i'll close this discussion.
mr president, competition policy is a cornerstone of european legislation. we agree that innovation, creativity and being better necessarily mean market advantage, but we do not accept that, just because someone is bigger and stronger with better connections to information and, in particular, special connections to government, these kinds of advantage should apply on the market, and we are very happy that the commission is on guard here to ensure that they should not. i would like to mention once again a new phenomenon: it is not market players but rather governments which seem, from time to time, to be playing by giving special advantages, in terms of competition policy, to some of their favourite companies. this is a very bad phenomenon and it goes back to party treasuries. i would ask the commission to move in this direction: let us have innovation, creativity and small and medium-sized enterprises, but do not allow any kind of misuse of information or power, either economic or political, on those territories.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. as we said yesterday, the hungarian presidency's priorities include strengthening the internal market and supporting job creation. as a prerequisite for these priorities is a european competition policy based on a level playing field in all sectors, the preparation of this report is a great pleasure. but, my fellow congressmen, that's in the past. he's changed over time. however, i think it is important to draw the lessons from the report and to highlight the fact that the european parliament - and we as members - can play a more active role in shaping competition policy in the future. i would ask the commission to help me in this. first of all, i ask and consider it necessary that parliament be kept regularly informed of all the initiatives taken in this area. secondly, i ask the commission, as the only competition authority with competence throughout the eu, to report annually to parliament on the use made of its recommendations and on deviations from them. i consider it important - and i join my colleagues in this - that competition policy cannot be dealt with vertically. there is a need for coordination in all functional and regulatory areas. however, this is the commission's task. therefore, it is essential to align union policies and priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy to support growth and jobs. finally, i would like to mention small and mediumsized enterprises, whose role is essential and unavoidable in the european economy as a whole - and, of course, in terms of increasing employment. however, the conditions of competition must be equal. competition policy must ensure this. i ask the commission to give priority to smes and to ensure that they are able to compete on a fair and non-discriminatory basis.
and i'm not speaking as a representative of the arctic circle, but i just want to remind all of us that not only is there an economic heritage, not only is there an energy heritage in the arctic, but it's also one of our greatest natural heritages. it is therefore very important that the companies that will be exploring and drilling there do so not with the profit-seeking attitude of the early gold miners, but with the sense of european responsibility that has developed in the 20th century, at the beginning of the 21st century. remember, in very extreme weather conditions, new technologies will be required to operate there. it is important that we do not make concessions, that we have rules, standards and requirements for companies that allow us to deal with this issue at the most advanced technical level, and that we have financial resources to prevent all kinds of natural disasters. we saw one of these on deep horizon. it's very, very important that the order be right. planet, people and product... planet, people and product. the product in this case is, of course, the gas and oil reserve. thank you very much for your attention and congratulations to the rapporteur.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. as a hungarian representative, i am speaking about the black sea strategy because i believe that the report has two identical objectives in relation to the main priorities of the hungarian presidency. the first is the fact that the report is in favour of regional development between the european union and the region. this is very important for us hungarian mps, because of the support for the danube strategy, because the only way to ask for support for the danube strategy is to be open to supporting other strategies. the second is energy security itself. apart from the fact that the black sea strategy seeks to ensure peace and stability in the region, the most important objective in the field of energy security is perhaps to ensure energy security itself, and as you heard yesterday, energy security is the other main priority of the hungarian presidency, so it is in the interest of all of us.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the black sea strategy is expected to play an increasingly important role in the future of the european union. this is illustrated by the joint declaration signed last week by the european commission and azerbaijan, in which azerbaijan commits itself in writing to supplying large quantities of gas to europe. it is a pleasure to see the european commission finally taking concrete steps to promote the nabucco project, as it is a matter of high priority to ensure access to gas resources in the caspian sea region. but we must not forget the gas that is being transported to europe via the black sea states. the deepening of the dialogue between the union and the black sea countries can be a major step forward in guaranteeing the security of energy supply in europe. the construction of the nabucco pipeline will also provide access to new gas resources in those member states where the current level of diversification of sources is extremely low. however, the construction of the pipelines requires the full contribution of the countries concerned. a transparent, non-discriminatory transport framework and a business environment that supports investment are not only important for the security of supply of the eu member states, but also of paramount importance for the stability and prosperity of the region. in my view, the black sea region stands to gain from the construction of nabucco: the pipeline will provide a predictable source of revenue for the countries of the region and will also provide direct access to the world's largest gas market.
in writing. − i welcome the report which aims to develop the region in the context of the european union's black sea strategy. i think it is important that the eu develops an action plan for black sea synergy. i consider it a priority to achieve peace and stability in the region, and the nabucco project should not be seen as a negligible guarantee of energy security.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, i have to say that the situation in pakistan in general, not just in this case, is quite disturbing. pakistan's problems cannot be seen as something that is far away from us, but we know very well that the problems that arise in the central asian region, whether it is economic problems, whether it is ethnic problems, whether it is the issue of emigration, these will eventually spill over into the european union area, so we have to deal very much with the problem of pakistan. two problems are particularly pressing on pakistan, the continuing attacks from afghanistan and india and, most importantly for us in this session, the muslim extremists, who have also been the victims of salman tashiir. i therefore ask the european parliament to assure pakistan of our support in order to bring about a satisfactory settlement of the situation as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam secretary of state, mr president, mr commissioner, and colleagues, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to express my satisfaction and gratitude that the european parliament is commemorating the roma victims of the holocaust for the first time. for us, the descendants, this is exactly our job, to remember and to learn. we must pay tribute to the suffering of the victims, and we must embed these painful lessons of belonging and acceptance in our shared history and memory. it is therefore important that we support the universities, scientific societies and research institutes that help to explore and present the atrocities committed by the roma throughout our long history. i propose that in the national curricula of all european countries we should reflect the centuries of common history that the majority societies have shared with the roma. today is also an opportunity to strengthen this solidarity, to reiterate that we are roma, members of our nation, state-builders, free and equal citizens of europe. we can't settle for less than that. we have seven hundred years of common history behind us, seven centuries of struggle, during which we have proved our loyalty to our country and to europe countless times. as we look back on the dark days of exclusion and persecution, we must draw strength from these uplifting moments of our shared history and hope that we can become a community of unity, dignity and co-existence. because we have a common history, we have a common future, we all know that, and i would like to hope that together we can do everything, but i am sure that together we can do everything. it takes the dedicated work of successive generations for everyone in their own lives, in their own communities, to strive to build a more accepting and perfect world. our ancestors have proven time and time again that our nations can come together when it comes to matters of destiny. and for us, the plight of the roma in europe is a question of destiny. it's our turn, and we have to make the first move today. and if i may add, the second step will be taken in two weeks' time in the plenary, where the european roma strategy can finally be launched, as we all hope.
(referring to rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure for a cross-examination of mr schulz) we see that mr martin schulz, leader of the european socialists, is extremely concerned about democracy and human rights in hungary. i ask you, mr. schulz, where were you when between 2002 and 2010 your socialist comrades in government violently crushed every single anti-government demonstration in hungary? where were you on october 23, 2006, when 14 people were shot in the face with rubber bullets fired at head height? where were you when in the fall of 2006 hundreds of people, now legally established by the court (the president intervenes) i have one minute, president, don't i, according to the rules. where were you then? and i also want to ask why the fidesz government doesn't ask you and your comrades this question? what is stopping the fidesz government from doing this?
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i am pleased that the european council is discussing together the issue of energy security and innovation. there is no doubt that energy security cannot be negotiated without innovation. we are of course in favour of a north-south pipeline being built alongside the east and west lines, but this will not solve the energy supply problems that are arising. and the addiction doesn't decrease significantly, just the direction of the addiction. the only way to minimise dependence in the long term is to shift the focus from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. it is in this spirit that i regret that the renewable energy issue is not sufficiently highlighted as one of the priorities for innovation. in this context, we must focus on two things in particular: firstly, renewable energy must be affordable, so that the population is not charged extra for using renewable energy. secondly, in order to prevent the dependence outside the european union from being converted into dependence within the european union, it is necessary to include the old member states, which are currently major renewable energy powers, such as belgium, the netherlands or austria, and therefore the more backward newly joined countries, such as hungary, poland and the czech republic, in the list of renewable energy sources. only by closely linking energy security and innovation can a prospective energy crisis affecting europe be avoided.
i congratulate the hungarian presidency of the european union on finally bringing this very important subject to the highest level of discussion in the council. affordable and accessible energy is in the interest of all eu member states. the european union must make use of all possible sources of energy. but we have a lapse that no one has noticed. hungarian-born nobel prize winner professor george oláh has discovered the methanol energy economy. china already has a lot of power plants, and iceland is the only country in europe with this kind of power. there is no methanol-based energy economy in the union at all, although it is extremely cheap, as it produces energy from carbon dioxide, water and electricity, which can be used to run cars, generate electricity, heat and other sources.
the energy summit on february 4th could be a real breakthrough, because words and deeds are finally meeting. the council also discussed the strategy and the infrastructure needed to implement it. i hope that the results will be as expected and that on 4 february we will witness the birth of a genuine common european energy policy. one more thought, if i may, mr. president. i would like to welcome the exchange of letters between the european commission and the hungarian government on the hungarian media law. i'm glad that the dialogue is taking place in the usual procedural manner in such cases. that should reassure everyone who's interested in solving the problem. i'm confident that the case can be closed in a few weeks. further malicious and baseless political attacks are thus rendered unjustified. i believe that this is in the interest of the union, and not what we have unfortunately witnessed today in the house, by virtue of a speech.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. in recent years, the number of tb patients and deaths from tb have increased alarmingly in hungary. it was partly the result of nation-destroying liberal thinking. i'm thinking of the shameful 2006 hungarian healthcare law, which was based on hospital closures and profit-driven healthcare. poverty, such as increased homelessness and increasingly difficult access to health care, plays an important role in the development of the disease. i think it's important to strengthen the preventive-curative role of health care, to expand screening, and not just to develop improved vaccines, but to make them available to everyone. these steps would mean a healthier nation, a healthier europe and a healthier society in the long run.
in writing. – throughout the history of mankind, tuberculosis has killed more people than any other disease. this highly contagious, airborne bacterium can infect ten to fifteen other people before the symptoms are noticed. overcrowded housing, slumification and the lack of proper hygiene have always been a serious risk factor for tuberculosis, and therefore tb is the disease most strongly related to and partly caused by poverty. despite the efforts of the who and national authorities, the number of people dying of tuberculosis amounts to 1.5 million every year and the number is still increasing. i full-heartedly support the tuberculosis vaccine initiative and sincerely hope that it can provide more vaccines for sufferers in europe and around the world. but it must be emphasised that the fight against tb must walk hand in hand with the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is necessary to identify the vulnerable groups as well as to determine and eliminate the barriers preventing these groups from accessing the full range of tb prevention, diagnosis and treatment. it would also be beneficial to modify the agenda of tb services in order to respond better to local needs and to address the widespread discriminatory practices in health systems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. allow me to devote the time i have before me to the cause of the chair. the president of romania has unfortunately said again in recent days that he does not support the territorial autonomy of szekler. i would like to see a clearer picture of the situation here in the european parliament, once and for all, and to see the european parliament declared to be the seat of regional self-determination. this is not due to traian băsescu's good intentions, but to the right of the diocese to autonomy. i would remind everyone that self-determination is an internationally recognized mandatory right and that the double standard of the european union saying that certain ethnic groups are entitled to autonomy and others are not is intolerable. the basques, the catalans, the szeklers, they don't have autonomy. it is for this reason that i must say with complete conviction that it is not european to support the szekler's quest for autonomy.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the commission! all of this, as my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs lochbihler, has said, is of great importance when we consider that the current tense international situation - i am thinking of the north african cases discussed yesterday, tunisia, egypt - shows that it is not at all important how much attention we give to this human rights, financial instrument, for example, and that the practical impact of this instrument on the ground can be important. this is the first important reason why parliament is claiming control over the instrument. the first reading debate in october last year discussed the issues of substance which were intended to facilitate the functioning of key local ngos. we found a consensus among the institutions on this. the second reading now has to deal with the other side of the coin, the interinstitutional debate on parliament's right of democratic control. as you know, the question of financial instruments, including this instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights, has been a subject of interinstitutional debate for a year. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the european parliament's right of democratic control, which is in fact the institution of 'delegated acts' which we believe should be enforced and applied in the present situation. this particular package, the case of the 'delegated acts', would be the first significant example of the european parliament's role actually being increased after 1 december 2009. so in the second reading, and hopefully in the conciliation procedure that will follow, we are also fighting for the recognition of the european parliament's right of democratic control, and we believe, together with my colleague, that this is precisely the case with the financial instrument for democracy and human rights. as we have just heard, this instrument would serve to protect human rights, the rule of law, democracy, and we are promoting specific rights, such as the fight for the rights of women and children, the fight against the death penalty, torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. we would help human rights defenders do their jobs under the most impossible circumstances. this tool is therefore particularly important. beneficiary ngos which are severely disadvantaged in certain countries. this is why we, as parliament, should have a say in the formulation of the strategy and the framework programmes and in the preparation of future plans, because we can take more serious steps by monitoring them annually, and not just by being consulted every two years during the financial cycles. we therefore ask for your support in order to be able to act in the spirit of the treaty of lisbon in the post-lisbon period, and i trust that both the commission and the council will recognise this need in the forthcoming conciliation procedure.
the rapporteur. - i thank my colleagues, the commissioner, for the views expressed in the debate and, of course, for the words of support for our decision. it was quite clear from mr. brok that we actually want to distinguish between executive and legislative functions. we do not want to confuse this, but as has been made clear here by both the rapporteurs and the members, parliament must have a say in the planning and the strategy so that implementation can really work effectively and the money can really be directed where it is needed most. i would add to the comments on the use of the money that i do not think any taxpayer would question the importance of using this financial instrument for the protection of democracy and human rights to help or even save human lives, the lives of human rights defenders, so i think this is exactly the instrument that would be accepted by any taxpayer. i take very seriously what the commissioner said, that parliament has been given new powers and stronger rights after lisbon. we would therefore very much like the council and the commission to be open to a good compromise, because we all have an interest in making these instruments really effective, and that requires all three institutions.
in writing. i consider it extremely important that waste electrical and electronic equipment is disposed of properly. increasing the proportion of waste collected separately is also essential, but it is important that the entire recycling process can be traced through appropriate documentation. this requires a responsible attitude on the part of industry, and more effective control of the behaviour of large manufacturing and processing companies. however, it should be noted that member states, especially the newly acceded ones, do not yet have sufficient recycling facilities and that emphasis should be placed on their development in order to ensure that the waste collected is treated in a truly professional manner.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the current revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive is of great importance not only from the point of view of environmental protection and public health, but also from the point of view of resource efficiency, which is so much talked about today. it is well known that the union is the destination of a large number of illegal shipments of e-waste every year, and it is therefore in the vital interest of our industry that member states keep valuable raw materials within the union by professionally collecting and, where possible, recycling their increasing amounts of e-waste. of course, consumption patterns differ from country to country and this should not be ignored when setting targets for effective recovery. in hungary, for example, the average consumer will not replace his television in two or three years, but if he does, he will most likely take it to his holiday home rather than to the collection points. in view of all this, the rapporteur, recognising this problem, was able to secure a widely supported compromise in which the basis for the collection targets was not the quantity of products placed on the market but the quantity of electronic waste generated. although there are still many technical details to be worked out, i believe this could be a good direction. in particular, the commission's own study of the capacity of the member states contradictorily considers the original recovery objective to be realistic only for the old member states and not for the new ones.
i'd like to ask you a question on the record. i'll be in in about ten minutes. i'd like to put on record that in the last vote, the romanian politician behind me, mr. becali, was not present at the vote, but that will be seen on the video. in contrast, his assistant, his secretary, used his congressional card to vote here. i'd like to ask the president if this is legal, and if it's not, what kind of punishment could an extremist romanian politician expect for having his assistant vote for him?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in 2004 an irish citizen caused a fatal accident in hungary. it was only last friday that we received the decision by the irish authorities that the man could be sent back to hungary to stand trial. therefore, at european level, this procedure has to be stronger than it is today. otherwise victims will have to wait many years, not only in this case, but also in other cases. this procedure has to be much stronger, so we are, of course, in favour.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to emphasise that the hungarian presidency attaches great importance to the successful conclusion of the mutual evaluation process on the quality of the transposition of the directive by the member states. however, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is to increase the access to information, competitiveness and thus mobility of enterprises, especially smes. of course, we can also help by facilitating cross-border activities for smes. multilingual, one-stop-shop administration can and does play a very important role in this. the hungarian government has respected and will continue to respect the deadlines for transposing all elements of the services directive into hungarian law and practice. in my view, the directive is appropriate, but it is important that all member states follow and comply with all the elements of the directive in a timely manner and within the deadlines to achieve the objective.
mr president, a hungarian computer technician can legally go to the czech republic to work. that is great. of course, he went in the past too, but on the black market. one of our greatest achievements is that one can now move legally. only eight per cent of smes make 15 per cent of their turnover in the european markets. if we simply doubled this, so that 20 per cent of smes made 30 per cent of that turnover in the internal market, we could achieve what we want. after one year, we are on the way to doing this. i would like to say thank you to all those who worked on the services directive in the past and those who implemented it in the member states. it has a great pulling effect on each single government to change to e-governance and use new ict technologies. the minor problems with the languages have to be looked at carefully and this we have to improve, but the great success of the services directive is that it will have a great impact on the european economy in the coming years. beside the austerity programmes, this is the achievement, so i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and those who participated.
mr president, knowledge creation within the european union is always a priority, which we manage successfully. however, knowledge management is not so well dealt with in the european union. i was very sorry to hear that the belgian presidency could not finish the patent directive as planned, but i hope that the hungarian presidency will be committed to doing its best in the coming months to get to the next phase, which is enhanced cooperation. time is the only resource which is not renewable. the time we lose never comes back. we cannot experience europe solely through austerity programmes. we need exploration of knowledge, we have to expand, and therefore it is of critical importance for europe that patents, whether with enhanced cooperation or with the common european directive, get off the ground. i would like to wish great success to those who participate in this and to those who are in favour of it. being hungarian we will lose the hungarian language, but that is a small price to pay compared to the advantages we will all benefit from.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, unfortunately, the hungarian nation experienced firsthand the severe food contamination caused by the nuclear accident during the chernobyl disaster. we must do everything we can to ensure that the chernobyl-type disaster does not happen again. one element of this prevention is the need to control extremely strictly existing and operating nuclear power plants. but i think it is acceptable for the future to focus on renewable energy sources and not to increase but to reduce as much as possible the role of nuclear energy in the energy supply. this is also essential for the european union in terms of energy security. it's the only way to increase our own security. we should not support the nuclear industry and take it into account, but only the health of the european people, our electorate, what is good for them and what is bad for them. i think it's important to have a contingency plan for a potential disaster, but i think our first priority is to reduce the risks, to minimize them. it is possible, but it will require political will and the appropriate determination on the part of my colleagues. we need to address the root of the problem, not wait for disaster to strike.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to speak in my native language tonight, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can follow my speech. the commission notes that the measure is not selective. one is to help smes to generate more revenue, enter european markets and bring innovative products to market. two: cut costs by cutting red tape. the services directive is a prime example. and our third objective was to make it easier for the sme sector to access funds. within the european union, small and medium-sized enterprises account for one third of gdp. if this is the case, the sme sector contributes to the european budget by around one third. on the other hand, if we look at the proportion of the eu budget that is spent on smes, we cannot be satisfied. we see that by the end of 2010, about 100,000 smes had received some kind of bank guarantee under the cip program, which is a lot, but for 23 million businesses, it's very little. this is expected to increase by another 200 000 smes, but it is still not enough compared to the 23 million. we've managed to mobilize 1.3 billion in venture capital, but that's again, when i compare it to 23 million businesses and their economic value, very, very little. we must be able, commissioner, to develop a procedure within the european union which will make it possible, on the one hand, to use the resources allocated to the eib much more easily and efficiently than at present. on the other hand, we must be able to encourage the member states themselves, through the annual reports, to support the smes sector not only in words but also in deeds. we would like to ask you, commissioner, in our letter to you, on behalf of the five political groups, not to neglect this circle of entrepreneurs, because it is this circle of entrepreneurs who are trying to survive in the most difficult situation after the austerity packages. this is where growth is expected to slow down first and where employment is expected to increase. we in parliament will give our support to this.
author. - mr president! - what are you doing? my dear officer. my fellow members of the house of representatives! what are we talking about when we talk about the european danube strategy, when we talk about the danube region? this region links 14 european countries and 115 million european citizens. it is perhaps no exaggeration to say that the european danube strategy is the strategy of the future. not just the future of central europe, maybe not even the future of the european union, but the future of europe in a broad sense. it is not simply looking back, it is not simply seeking to solve problems that we have brought with us from the past, but it is seeking to develop a recipe for cooperation that can solve the tasks of the future. in drawing up the danube region strategy, we used an old-fashioned method which may have really brought the union, the union's initiative, closer to the european citizens, since the commission, after listening to and taking account of the opinions of many, many interested parties over a very long period of time, developed the vision published last december. it is also a very, very important issue that the countries, regions and people of the danube region have been particularly affected by the crisis, the economic and financial crisis, and so the strategy of the danube region must be a strategy for recovering from the crisis, which must in any case focus on increasing employment. i think that we can all welcome the approach of the hungarian presidency of the european council here in the european parliament, which considers the strategy of a developing and enriching danube region and the strategy of a liveable danube region to be extremely important. in this respect, it is particularly important that the eu resources that have not been used so far by the eu member states concerned by the danube strategy in their cohesion policy are made available for the implementation of the cohesion strategy.
on behalf of the s&d group. it's good that mr. hahn is the commissioner in charge. it is also from a danube country, because there is a lot of work ahead for both the hungarian presidency and the european commission to create harmony between the 11 policy areas. there are too many priorities, colleagues and officers. how will balance and harmony be achieved between the different priorities? i have no doubt, because i too want this strategy to succeed, and the best thing about this strategy is that it forces cooperation, it forces the countries along the danube, where cooperation was often lacking. however, it is questionable how the sometimes conflicting objectives of the danube strategy, such as water quality, environmental improvement, navigability, energy recovery and ecotourism, can be reconciled. the commission therefore has a lot of work to do to bring the 11 countries and the 11 policies into harmony after the adoption in june.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. it has long been a commonplace in science that mankind has three major strategic treasures, for which wars could be waged. these treasures are the earth's oil, food, and freshwater resources. the danube is the largest freshwater river in europe. all other benefits - from transport to energy production - can only be secondary to the importance of water as a strategic asset. as i have stressed in several speeches to parliament, i therefore believe that the danube strategy should be a means of protecting drinking water resources in the first place. this position is also consistent with the eu's efforts to meet the eu water quality requirements set out in the water framework directive. i therefore believe that when the interests of water protection and energy production, or of water protection and inland waterway transport, may conflict in the practical implementation of the strategy, this first priority should be given priority. in view of all this, i am surprised that the commission's communication, in the context of the development of danube navigation, contains specific objectives which require a maximum depth of 2.5 metres to be achieved on the river every day of the year. this is particularly strange because, as far as i know, not only the hungarian water experts, but also their austrian and german colleagues, have not been happy with this statement.
in writing. the movement for a better hungary considers it important and necessary to launch the european union strategy for the danube region as soon as possible. however, the main problem is, as usual, one of transparency and funding. the support available from the cohesion fund and from territorial cooperation programmes should reach the local level. the current regional disparities can only be reduced by a well-thought-out and transparent strategy that efficiently distributes unused resources, directly supporting local entrepreneurs and investments. member states wishing to join the eu, such as croatia and later serbia, will also become natural partners of the danube region. the strategy should therefore place a much greater emphasis on crossborder cooperation and the role of the new member states.
high-quality police training in the european union is essential to the implementation of our first security strategy and to the successful fight against terrorism and organised crime. a police training that can harmonise and bring to a common level the very different police traditions and very different capabilities of the different member states. the european police college will play a distinguished role in carrying out an important task. it is sad that cepol, the european police college, has become known in the european parliament for the previous management of cepol, the european police college, for its irregular and corrupt functioning, but it must be said, and perhaps fewer people know this, and fewer people care about scandals, that the appointment of new heads in 2010 has started a very positive process in the functioning of the european police college. so it's important that we not only look at the past, but also look at the future. the future objectives require two things: to ensure the organisational autonomy of the european police college and the development possibilities necessary for its renewed operation. and for that, i would like your support and your attention.
the situation of national minorities depends primarily on the constructive cooperation between the majority society and the political representative of the minority. over the past 20 years, it has been proven that cross-border hungarian minority communities have been successful where the cooperative skills of the minority political leadership have met the constructive attitude of the political leadership of the majority society, which considers the minority as a partner, whether they are included in the government or not. there is no alternative to this cooperation. i am very pleased that the current slovak government has embarked on the path that may one day lead to a historic hungarian-slovak reconciliation. we must put an end to the nationalist bidding, the nationalism of one country provoking the nationalism of another country. i wish that in hungarian-slovak relations, not nationalisms, but minority-based cooperations would compete with each other. i hope that the historic hungarian-slovak reconciliation will have serious results, because there is no other alternative between the two countries.
i welcome the report on the rights of bus passengers. this service is also more accessible to eu citizens, including people with disabilities. the compromise was reached after a long negotiation. in the meantime, the european parliament and mr cancian have stood by people with disabilities. unfortunately, the european council has been more short-sighted and inflexible. i am very sorry that the european council is unable to recognise that we live in a society which is aging rapidly. the number of people with disabilities is going to skyrocket overnight. we should recognise that every eu citizen will suffer from this problem and that sooner or later everyone will need help. and in closing, i want to emphasize that this is not the end of the work. the compromise has been reached in four areas of travel and now it is time for the single european act to be adopted, which will help to ensure that passengers' rights are respected in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, those who know russia will know that what passes for a legal system there does not measure up to the normal criteria of the rule of law. this affects russia’s relations with the rest of the world and equally with its own citizens. it follows that, when the european union deals with russia, it must take into account a variety of non-legal factors, notably political interference, corruption, and occasionally violence. the relationship between russia and the west, then, is subject to uncertainty, not to mention the complete absence of transparency and accountability. where russia’s own citizens are concerned, they lead lives more affected by arbitrariness and violence than can be reconciled with the european union’s commitment to universal human rights. attempts to transform russia have failed, so the european union has no alternative but to live with the awkward interface between its own legality and russia’s non-legality.
in writing. - i voted for the recommendation. i find it scandalous that we have not yet reached a common position on this subject. we have to recognise that europe is lagging behind in the global innovation race. without broad patent protection, there is no innovation, and the costs of such patenting cannot be borne by universities, smaller research institutes, inventors. by patenting only in their own country, they are practically giving their invention away free to the world market. the eu patent is vital! it is of the utmost importance that a european patent can be obtained by filing an application. it is in my interest to see this implemented in all european countries, including my country, hungary.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, the large number of amendments almost 500 amendments have been received shows the huge interest in this subject, and it is only thanks to the rapporteur, ria oomen-ruijten, that we have managed to move from this large number of amendments to a situation that reflects the current opinion of the parliament. i say, your current position, because we are at the beginning of the debate, this is the green paper, there will be a white paper, there will be further reports, so obviously we are at a stage of a process here. i should like to say that in general we agree with the commission's approach, which welcomes diversification, the creation of a multi-faceted pension system, but i would also like to point out that it is possible to be a little more precise here. obviously, when we talk about second pillars, it's a second pillar that adds to the first pillar, knowing its weaknesses. it's not the same as the second pillar, where you take away from the first pillar, just to operate a system in a different way. one enhances stability, the other threatens stability. at the same time, it should be seen, and this has been said, but i would just like to emphasise that the problems of the pension system cannot necessarily be solved from within, and probably cannot. there is a need for more jobs, there is a need for stronger economic cooperation, and in any case the aim would be that when the commission prepares the white paper, it should somehow link this common thinking process with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and economic governance. obviously, then we can continue this discussion in a more fruitful way.
madam president! i think it is important, as many others have said, that there should be as much coordination as possible at european level on pensions. one is because the crisis raises the question of macroeconomic stability and raises the question of how to ensure security in old age, a dignified old age. we see a number of changes happening in the member states. in some countries, we see reforms towards strengthening or establishing the private pension fund pillar, while in others we see a reversal of the wheel of time. but whatever the type of change, it's very important that the sustainability of your retirement, the stability of your retirement, the dignity of your retirement, is the main consideration. any changes should be coordinated with the social partners, allowing adequate time for transitions. people, citizens, need to be informed about what changes are coming, how they will affect them, so that they can make informed decisions, and any change needs to be made in a civic way.
the european union has done a lot for people with disabilities. unfortunately, the pension systems of the member states do not really reach this social group, which is not sustainable. people who were forced to join the disability pension system through no fault of their own, there are also many people who have been forced to join the system by exploiting their loopholes, so this problem is mainly affecting the pension system of east-central europe, there are many people. so much so, that the very foundations of the pension system are shaking. this situation is contrary to the eu 2020 strategy. they get non-personalized services instead of real help, while they can be in the job market and work. in europe, current projections suggest that the number of dependent children will soon double. meanwhile, the number of people of working age is falling by 1 million a year. all of this means that a sustainable pension system does not exist at present. without people with active disabilities, it's especially not. i am very much in favour of the rapporteur's idea that in the eu, where 50 million people with disabilities live, some 40% of them are employed. what about 60% of them? so they should work, too.
member of the commission. − thank you very much for your supplementary questions. i agree with you that the figures you mentioned might not seem as ambitious as you would like them to be in the future, but the truth is that since we started with equal opportunity policies within the commission in 1995, we have managed to increase the presence of women in top positions fivefold. this means that now there are five times as many women in these positions than before. of course, we have to look at the baseline. i agree with you that it was very low. we also have to compare in what kind of environment in europe we are operating. this is also part of the response to the second question, namely that policies for creating these conditions for women, not only in the eu institutions but also in the member states, must still be improved. first we need to create suitable conditions for women so that they can actually work in these high positions, which means adequate childcare, adequate working facilities, flexitime and other conditions which actually allow women to be in these high positions. of course, these conditions are being created gradually. i think we have achieved quite high standards in the european institutions and you can see the various levels at which these conditions have been secured among the member states. therefore my colleague, vice-president reding, is now proposing a strategy which will be called gender balance in business leadership. so far, this is a staff working document, which will be discussed with business leaders in two months’ time, and then the public consultations will start. what are the lessons to be learned in this process? should we go through an obligatory quota system? should we go for the system we have in the commission, where we are trying to create a conducive environment and managerial incentives for those dgs which can actually fulfil the goals established for women? i think that after that we will see appropriate results.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in albania.
since the parliamentary elections in 2009, political life in albania has come to a standstill. parliament cannot exercise its power of control over the government, and parliamentary institutions are unfortunately not functioning effectively. the fact that the socialists are accusing the government of electoral fraud and corruption, demanding its resignation and the early holding of elections in 2013, and that prime minister berisha is refusing to resign and accusing the opposition of seeking to take power by force, indicates that negotiations with the european union will soon collapse. the european union considers it essential that the candidate countries step up their efforts to combat corruption and organised crime. this is not only important for the union, but also for the societies of the countries concerned, not to mention the fact that the image of the candidate countries can be significantly improved in this way. the restoration of democratic institutions is therefore absolutely necessary to resolve the situation.
the situation in which albania finds itself is best described as a cold civil war. political parties play the role of warring sides and are pulling the country into a downward spiral. the explanation is that both left and right believe that political parties should rule exclusively, as the communist party once did. once a polarisation of this kind has begun, it is very difficult to transform the situation into one that resembles the democratic norm, because in this context exclusive power is completely rational, which is tragic. is there a way out? yes: catharsis. but only a major crisis or a grand historic compromise can bring this about.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for this lovely debate and, before i share with you my concluding remarks, let me address the two questions which were put during the debate. the first one, put forward by mr belder, i will answer in written form, taking into account our primary focus in today’s discussion. but there was another question: whether we are considering sanctions. no we are not. why is this? because in issues of enlargement, conditionality works very fairly, as is clearly the case here. if you fulfil the conditions, you are allowed to proceed with accession and eventually join the european union. if you do not fulfil the conditions and requirements, the process is slowed down and eventually stopped. unfortunately this is the ultimate price that is being paid not only by the politicians but also by the citizens of that respective country. the high representative and i will continue to strive to facilitate dialogue between albania’s majority and opposition. we have a clear idea of how to do this. we also need your support to make sure that the leaders of the main opposition party and the prime minister of albania understand our message. this could lead the country out of the political crisis and could allow positive steps towards its integration into europe. the european union made a commitment to all the western balkan countries that they would enter the european union. we stand by our commitment and will step up our efforts, provided the countries fulfil the criteria. albania urgently needs to implement the 12 key priorities of the opinion. these include addressing the fundamental principles of democracy, such as the proper functioning of parliament, separation of powers, the conduct of elections and respect for the rule of law. all of this will only be possible once the current political situation has taken a fundamental positive turn with the resumption of a full and constructive political dialogue in parliament, respect for all state institutions and the realisation that the citizens of albania have aspirations that require attention. the leaders of albania must act now for the benefit of their people. the european union stands ready to assist.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the commission's statement on the wiretapping scandal in bulgaria.
yes, i will, congressman, and we will take appropriate action.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a rather heated debate, but i would like to emphasise three points which i believe are fundamental. the accession process to the eu – and my country went through this – is not an easy one, but when a country is accepted into the eu we really believe that this member state has the ability to be the guarantor of fundamental human rights and also of the implementation of eu law. for this particular sector we have specific legislation. this is the directive concerning the processing of personal data and protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector. so the commission has a very long, and i would say a very respectable, track record on following eu legislation being implemented in member states. i reported to you where we start now and i believe that you should have full trust that the commission will act if eu law is breached. if it is not breached, it will not act. so the commission is monitoring the situation and, if there is the need, the commission will act, but i think we should not go beyond the structures that are in community law and the commission will definitely stay within community law.
i'll close this discussion.
the following is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the world bank's energy strategy (o-000020/2011 - b70012/2011) by ms eva joly on behalf of the committee on development.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is very important to our debate, even if it is late at night, because i think the world bank’s energy strategy is an opportunity. it is a genuine opportunity to respond to energy challenges. if we also look at what the international energy agency is saying about energy poverty, about renewable energy, it is certainly a huge challenge, but the world bank, together with our leadership, could make the necessary change. if we go back a couple of years in our union’s history, our renewable energy target seemed impossible to meet, even if it was a rather humble target of 18%, if i recall correctly. now it seems that we are well on track. sometimes, however, you need to take your courage in both hands and anticipate the real challenges. the world bank makes the whole process very open. there will be the world bank energy week in washington. we could also submit our contributions to the world bank, which is very open to new ideas. if we are courageous, that will give even more courage to the world bank. so it is important that we go with open hearts and put these very ambitious ideas to the world bank. otherwise, many people could attempt to evade this challenge. it is definitely a question of where to start. i would say it is still access to energy that we should be looking at, because access to energy also means sustainable and efficient energy. the recent trends in the countries we are working with show huge urbanisation, so in a way it has changed the pattern of the whole energy riddle. it means not only decentralised generation, but also agglomeration areas, so energy efficiency, strange as it sounds, should also be part of the strategy. most importantly, we should beef up. we have energy facilities: eur 200 million. you cannot do too much on energy with eur 200 million. we need to envisage long-term funding, because i believe europe’s trademark should be renewable energy. with this, and the capacities of the world bank, we really could do something that matters, not only for energy supply but also in terms of taking substantial steps to combat climate change.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes), tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 february 2011.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. it is with a heavy heart that we must say that although the country was ready to join six years ago, during the last enlargement, it still faces obstacles to its accession. therefore, it is only possible to agree with the hungarian eu presidency's objective of making the integration of croatia one of the main priorities of its mandate. the statement by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán that european unity cannot be complete without the integration of the western balkan countries can also be agreed. the member states that remain outside the former yugoslavia are a black hole on the map of the union. changing this situation is the opening for croatia to change this situation. in the words of croatian prime minister jadranka kosor yesterday, it is our moral duty to give this encouragement to the countries of south-east europe, for they have no alternative to integration.
mr. commissioner and mr. minister. i am in favour of the hungarian presidency's intention to conclude the accession negotiations with croatia in june. croatia has made more progress than some eu countries in many areas. it is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done, as minister martonyi has indicated. mr. hannes swoboda is well informed about this complex area of the western balkans. the success of croatia can be an incentive for serbia and the other western balkan countries. it is important that our western balkan friends, our croatian colleagues, understand that internal reforms must be carried out in the interests of their own people, not the union. i consider it of paramount importance to improve the situation of serbs, hungarians and other national minorities, to ensure the dignified return of refugees, expelled serbs and krajina serbs, and to settle the slovene-croatian neighbourhood. we must appreciate that the croatian head of state has made many gestures towards the historic reconciliation of serbia, bosnia and herzegovina and croatia.
in writing. croatia is one step away from achieving its historic goal. the question is, what is that step? a long step, full of obstacles, perhaps artificial obstacles, or an easier and shorter step, based on cooperation, which evaluates the fulfilment of difficult commitments made so far. the croats have done a great deal of work to conclude the accession negotiations and their cooperation has been well recognised. think of efforts to reduce corruption, conflict, organized crime, or even to improve neighborhood policies. of course, there are still some open issues today, mostly bilateral, but it is important to stress that these cannot be confused with european issues. i am convinced that croatia deserves to be a member of the eu, deserves to successfully conclude the negotiations during the hungarian presidency. croatia's position in the western balkans is of strategic importance. this role is reinforced by the three agreements concluded between croatia and the hungarian government on strengthening the security of energy supply, joint exploration of cross-border hydrocarbon fields and storage of oil reserves. i sincerely hope that all natural and perhaps artificial obstacles to croatia's accession will be removed, because croatia is not only mature but also worthy of joining the eu. and i ask you, my fellow members, to vote in favour of croatia's accession as soon as possible, since accession could take place on the symbolic 20th anniversary of croatia's independence.
madam president! the financial and economic crisis has turned into a social and employment crisis, which is why it is particularly important that the recognition that has been born in europe of the need for closer coordination in the field of economic and employment policies should be realised. this also means that any country that implements structural reforms, changes its tax policy or even reviews the opening of shops on sundays, for example, must consider whether it is helping the development of the employment system and whether it is contributing to the growth of employment. consultation with the social partners is also a key element in any decision. the european semester will be the first test of this recognition, when europe, together with the hungarian presidency, will be able to see for the first time to what extent these directives are being transposed and whether they are really being implemented. i believe that the hungarian presidency, the hungarian government, has a key role to play, not only in its presidency but also in providing a model, taking this into account in all economic policy changes and employment policy decisions and providing a model for other countries. (the speaker accepts a question with a blank sheet)
i think mrs göncz understands very well the whole question of how the european union wants to end unemployment. i've been sitting here all this time, and i don't understand any better. please help me answer the question: what do we say to people in borsod, szabolcs? where and when will they get jobs? i expect the same, and i expect an answer to that question from mr martonyi, who is here representing the council, and fortunately also from a commissioner of hungarian origin. where will the hungarian people, and where will the people in other disaster areas of europe, get their jobs? where and when? i want a definite answer.
madam president, i would like to answer, obviously this is not the time to talk about this in great detail, but for example, what i was thinking about is whether there is a change in the tax system, whether there is a tax change that reduces social disparities, whether there is a tax change that helps companies to continue to develop, create jobs, or rather, encourage them to curb these job creation intentions. i was thinking, if it comes to transforming the education system, is this really going to be about social inclusion? if it is a question of continuing training, is it really preparing you for the market, preparing you for the labour market? i was thinking of these specifically.
thank you for your time, madam president, as rapporteur for the 2010 employment guidelines and as coordinator of the people's party. i welcome the commission's proposal to maintain the 2010 employment guidelines for 2011. we agree with that, we support that. at the same time, the lisbon treaty provides for annual guidelines, so we really have to monitor, we have to monitor changes, we have to keep in touch with each other, the commission, the council and parliament, and of course we have to amend them where necessary. i therefore propose that the integrated guidelines for employment in the economy should be used as a kind of guide in the review of the 2020 strategy and in the work of the european semester, and that if there are deviations, we should take the trouble to amend them. and problems can arise. i have recently learned that the preliminary national reform programmes already show some delay in the employment commitments, with rates of around 72% instead of the 75% target, which clearly needs to be reconsidered, lest we follow the example of the lisbon strategy, where we have made many commitments and then achieved little. i'd like to lay down some ground rules. i agree with you about pensions and wages. no intervention is required, subsidiarity must be respected and specific national commitments are needed for special groups, young people, people with disabilities, people with multiple disadvantages. (the speaker raises a question to reulille raising the blue card in the rules of procedure, paragraph 149.8)
i have to ask my hungarian colleague again. does subsidiarity in pensions and wages mean that workers and pensioners in hungary and the post-communist countries will consistently, continuously and forever have the same proportion of their pensions and wages as western europeans, because that's very sad, if that's what you mean. that's the way it is. a nurse earns 70 000 forints, a teacher 90 000 forints, and pensioners have fundamental difficulties in making a living. what does that mean?
no, madam president, that is not the way to understand it, but the question of pensions is fundamentally dependent on the economic performance of the economy. it depends on what we can produce and on that basis we can provide adequate pensions. so the strategy we are talking about, which is to make europe competitive, viable, successful, this means the opportunity to raise pensions in countries that are even more disadvantaged today, but it is not possible to introduce balancing rules, because there are huge differences at the moment. clearly, a gradual approach is needed in the future.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy not only overtook the lisbon strategy when it was formulated, but had to be adapted to the new crisis period, and now also to reflect the period of economic governance and the rescue of the euro. the new member states must also ensure that they remain sufficiently mobile and competitive to address the structural and employment problems that have persisted and deepened since the eastern european transition. because of past mistakes and serious governmental failures, the situation of families must also be addressed: the labour market is not only made up of employers and employees, but also of more or less closely linked, multi-generational families, which are not only the foundations of society, but also the backbone of its future. closer intergenerational cooperation alone can have a major impact on employment (e.g. placing young mothers in work, promoting the integration of people with disabilities, keeping older people active even in the civil sphere) and on joint planning (e.g. housing) to avoid individual and family debt crises and bankruptcies that can already force families into the grey economy due to high repayment installments. this old road is no longer viable. new approaches will also be needed, as the old recipes are no longer sufficient, and the european union must recognise this. the eu must support even the most unusual solutions.
in writing. – the eu 2020 strategy is one of the most important projects we've created, yet, there is no guarantee of its success. we should include gender equality in all targets, flagship initiatives and national reforms – and women should be considered in all policy areas. the open method of coordination is a weak means to carry out common goals, therefore results will only come if there is real commitment! the eu 2020 strategy's employment targets call for an increase in women's employment. this, the reconciliation of work and family life and the elimination of gender stereotypes in the labour market are a must. we need to involve more women in vocational training, the sciences and educational fields that have been until now considered as 'masculine'. we have to end the gender-based segregation of the labour market, especially when it comes to the new green jobs. fully including women to the labour market is a way to put an end to the demographic crisis. if we provide secure and decent work, the means to reconcile work and family life and if we manage to include men more intensively in household duties, then all studies show that women would be more willing to bear children.
in writing. - i voted for amendment 6. i believe that innovative and start-up small businesses should be supported to have better access to equity-based financial instruments. the commission should focus more on programmes and financial instruments for the coming period and support these instruments with risk-sharing funds and supporting instruments.
we are talking about the problem of rising food prices here in the european parliament today. consumers in hungary and other european countries are feeling this phenomenon, the rising food prices. the ones who don't are farmers, and the weird ones are small farmers. how is that possible? where's the money going? the answer to this mystery, to this secret, is found in point (d) of the excellent motion for a resolution tabled by the green group, but the motion for a resolution as a whole is excellent, and i congratulate you on that. it also provides detailed answers and solutions. in point (d), he points to the phenomenon of speculation. he says that the speculation of commodity markets by purely financial institutions, i.e. money capital, has increased, and this causes an artificial inflation of the price of commodities. so we have a partial solution. the money is with speculators, or buyers and sellers, who are often greedy for profit. what a pride it would be for the hungarian people if the hungarian presidency made the solution to this question, the food speculation, a priority. i ask the representative of the hungarian presidency here whether we can expect that and i ask mr cioloş, the european union's commissioner for agriculture, what solution he sees for food speculation.
in writing. three factors are causing the sharp rise in food prices: yield losses due to natural disasters, increasing food demand mainly from china and india, and commodity market activity, price speculation. french president sarkozy very rightly asked the question a few weeks ago: 'if financial markets are regulated, why are commodity markets not? other we need to act much more effectively against speculation at eu and global level. the main cause of food shocks is the huge fluctuations in supply. only 10 to 20 percent of cereals are traded on the global market, yet a drop in production can cause panic. in view of the forecast decreasing stocks, importers are raising prices. it is not fair to producers or consumers that export prices also determine domestic prices, since at least 80% of production is consumed where it was produced. the former or current position of russia as an exporter has a fundamental influence on the development of the european cereals and oilseeds market. supply shocks are further exacerbated by speculation in futures markets, and a food shock occurs. so the real problem is not the physical shortage of food but the price, which makes it impossible for the poor to afford it. thus, food is kept in storage rather than being sold at a fair price. high prices are a barrier to consumers, especially the poor.
i have to ask my colleague how balanced you think the picture you have given of israel and the situation in the middle east is, without saying a word to the state of israel about its extremely serious human rights violations, including the shameful attack on gaza, the so-called security wall, which has nothing to do with security, all the human rights violations condemned by the un and many other organisations and human rights groups.
well, the fidesz government deserves what is happening now, where the leftists from martin schulz to cohn-bendit to the rest of them are applauding you, and our dear leftist colleagues are giving you lessons in democracy. let me ask you what message you have for the left-wing parties like the mszp, which ripped out the eyes of the people in hungary in 2006. what guarantee does the hungarian nation have that this will not happen and that the government of your left-wing party will not crush the protests as it did in 2002 and 2010... (the president cut the speaker off)
the security guard! the desire to restrict media freedom is a general european phenomenon. as a patriot, i am particularly sorry that it was the hungarian media law that sparked the debate in the european parliament and other european institutions. it doesn't feel good. the european commission's harsh criticism has brought the orbán government to its knees, which in december had been firmly refusing to change the law. now the commission is forcing the orbán government to amend the scandalous laws. the commission considers that the hungarian media regulation is contrary to eu law. it is not only in breach of the audiovisual directive, but also of the eu treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. criticism of the eu is a political defeat for the hungarian right. however, the majority of the objections raised by the four political groups in the european parliament remain valid. both the commission and the european parliament should closely monitor the impact of the amended hungarian laws on freedom of expression and press in hungary. i ask minister martonyi what motivated the orbán government to abolish the previous media law, which provided for a media board composed of 50-50% members of the government and 50% of members of the opposition. what does officer neelie kroes think about this? i strongly urge the hungarian government not to create the impression that the criticism is directed at hungary. i ask that after the european commission's recent strong criticism, the orbán government conduct a self-examination and stop its anti-democratic government practices. "for the one who is growing up will be the one who catches the trouble", warned the noted hungarian poet, gyula illyes.
mr. president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. as you announced at the beginning of our debate today, an agreement has been reached between the hungarian government and the european commission on the amendment of the hungarian media law in several respects. i agree with my colleagues that the political motivations, the biases and, as i hear from my fellow socialists and liberals, the sometimes hate-motivated debate that we are witnessing here today, have become meaningless. one of the speakers of the european socialists spoke about the defence of common european values and expressed his position in this regard. i would like to quote a hungarian socialist classic: lárifári!. that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. it is simply that the european socialists, liberals, communists and greens are again applying double standards. mr martin schulz, the leader of the group of the european people's party, said nothing when a minister in the hungarian socialist government, through his political colleagues, ordered that a journalist who was unpleasant to him be drugged and beaten up in his car. martin schulz was silent when a state secretary in the hungarian socialist government filed a criminal complaint against a hungarian journalist for writing an exposé on a legislative fraud, and the hungarian journalist was arrested for it. guy verhofstadt, leader of the liberal faction, had no words when hungarian journalists exposed electoral fraud at the party's cleaning congress, and the party boycotted those journalists' tv for a long time afterwards. if they did not speak out in defence of common european values then, their statements today are not credible.
mr president, on a point of order, i want to put a question to you. regardless of what you say, i am fighting for members to be able to say what they want. however, in this house so far, only the extreme right and the left have had the right to blue card interventions. i think this is a one-sided way to conduct the sitting and would like to ask that the centre and the centre-right should also have the right to put questions to the other speakers, because otherwise members are not being treated equally.
the security guard! the hungarian government and the commission today, as we heard, agreed to amend the hungarian media law, in concrete terms, contrary to what some suggest. and yet you insist on a pointless debate. for me, this means that the media law is just an excuse, a political attack against the hungarian government with a two-thirds majority. while the draft resolution you signed calls for our right to information, its text is based on slips and errors of fact, just like everything else we've heard this afternoon. it's misleading. for me, the right to information, colleagues, is the right to unadulterated, truthful information, and that is what you violated this afternoon. interestingly, you only stand up for the protection of freedoms when it is possible to attack right-wing governments, but it is a sad fact that no one from the ranks of the socialist-liberal factions was concerned about the protection of human rights when, under the hungarian socialist government, freedoms were literally trampled underfoot in the streets of budapest in october 2006, or when the slovak socialist government punished the use of minority languages. you have done everything possible to ensure that these serious violations of the law are not even discussed in the european parliament. this is an outrageous double standard, colleagues. you speak of dictatorship, tyranny of the majority, when you speak of the law. for me, who was a child of the ceaușescu dictatorship, this proves that your idea of democracy and the rule of law is one-sided and peculiar.
today, the agreement between the hungarian government and the european commission has been signed. the hungarian government has read today, my fellow members of parliament, it is a big deal, it has understood the commission's comments and, as promised, it is changing the media law, that is, the hungarian government and the commission have acted legally and democratically, and you are here today to make a political flea circus. unfortunately, not for the first time. and the reason is obviously gone. my hungarian socialist colleagues here are making baseless accusations and even inciting others. and back home, they're uncovering one billion-dollar scandal after another. my fellow members of the house of representatives! you were deliberately led astray! hungary is a democracy and the media law meets all eu directives and requirements. and finally, my fellow congressmen, let us address the issues that are more urgently needed than this current political flea circus.
thank you very much for the minister's reply. i would like to encourage the council to pay attention to the importance of involving people with disabilities, and this is also a question in the life of parliament, how members can be involved in this process, since we represent the people, so to speak. i'd like to congratulate the board on the fact that the trio has always maintained a high standard of care for the disabled. my question is whether the successive presidencies will also want to treat this, this disability issue, at the same high level.
mr president, officer! you guys! as the shadow rapporteur on the discharge of the european investment bank, my colleague audy and i are treating the eu guarantees to the european investment bank as a very important issue. the european investment bank is a key player in financing major projects both inside and outside the eu, and its role will continue to grow. however, under the current rules, no european institution has the right to supervise the eib, and we would like to change this in the future so that it does not hinder future growth. loans to non-eu countries require more care and attention than projects within the community, not only because of what has been said, but also because external developments are far from being subject to the same controls as investments within the eu. the solution to this is that these projects require much better preparation. at the same time, most external projects are strategic but do not always flow into politically stable areas. as a member of the committee on industry, i would like to highlight the energy issue among the projects being implemented in these regions. more than 50% of external investments financed by the eib are directed to the eastern partnership countries and russia. the security and development of these countries is directly in the eu's interest, as they are the source of a major share of the central and eastern european and baltic countries' natural gas imports and of their electricity imports. it is therefore essential that the eib focuses on supporting projects that directly or indirectly result in an increase in safety and security of supply. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr kalfin, whom i congratulate, that the eib should be encouraged to cooperate more closely with the european bank for reconstruction and development and the world bank in the field of non-eu lending. significant synergies can be achieved.
in writing. the budgetary guarantee granted by the european union to the european investment bank (eib) ensures the stability of the bank and covers the political and country-specific risks arising from its activities. this is particularly true for countries and projects that would have difficulty or no access to capital markets. the decision renews the guarantee mandate, sets the ceiling for the funding, lists the eligible countries and determines the rate at which they can receive support. the system of regional objectives is replaced by high-level, global objectives covering all regions, in accordance with the principles laid down in the decision. the european commission, in cooperation with the eib and in consultation with the european external action service, shall develop operational guidelines reflecting the eu's regional strategy for all regions covered by the mandate. in the future, the focus will be on sectors such as health, education, environmental infrastructure, water supply, waste water treatment, sustainable transport development, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. the budgetary control committee was specifically tasked with reinforcing the budgetary control functions contained in the decision. in order to increase transparency, it is particularly important to forward to the european parliament all reports and information on the eib's activities, to measure the concrete results of projects supported by the eu guarantee and to maintain the european court of auditors' right of audit over the use of funds from the eu budget.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we know that there are many clichés concerning european decision-making. the first one is that it is not transparent, but the eu is a tricky political system even for those who understand its functioning. standard definitions hardly apply, therefore. transparency and simplicity should be a basic aim for all actors in the eu. our political system is sufficiently difficult on its own; we are not here to make it more difficult. finding a legislative proposal somewhere on an eu website should not require special skills, so the user-friendly website the oral questions mention is not just an option – it is a must. another accusation is that the role of lobbying is unclear, and the role of big business is disproportionately strong. i know that lobbying can be useful for the commission, as lobby groups often think up important points and provide information or even whole, ready-made, policy solutions. here again i believe that transparency is a must and i am hopeful that this will be reflected in the future lobby register. when it comes to expert groups, they should be seen for what they are: another playing field in which participants can put their interests forward. if the composition of those expert groups is biased, then expert groups merely provide one more opportunity for interest groups to succeed. however, these players are usually already good at putting their interests forward without the additional help of public authorities. i can only repeat my colleagues’ question: is it obligatory or not for the commission to obtain balanced advice?
in writing. − the danube strategy is a european union project to which the third countries bordering the danube are invited to participate in order to develop the immense economic potential of the danube region. the danube river links ten european countries, six of which are members of the european union. all these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as water transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education. it also identifies common responses to challenges such as improving the quality of life, increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of danube towns and attracting investment in strategic areas. i believe that there is a need for better coordination between local and regional authorities and organisations working in the danube region to ensure job creation and security in this area. they also support the economic and social development of the danube region as a priority community area and promote deeper regional integration in this area, which would constitute a dynamic component of a wider european economic area. support the implementation of this strategy as the danube region represents a significant socio-economic potential within europe.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i think it is important, of course, that we in the european parliament condemn dictatorial methods, that we condemn dictators and dictatorships, but i also think it is important that we in general encourage yemen to become a democratic country. i believe, however, that although this yemeni issue has been brought to the table of the european parliament, it is not the task of the european union to take a position on it. this case is completely confusing. there are circumstances that are completely unclear. even the details of the crime are not reassuring. among other things, we don't know how old the young man accused and convicted of the crime was at the time of the crime. it's possible she wasn't a minor. we're not seeing clearly on this one. there is nothing that shows yemen's staggering backwardness more than the fact that mohammed taher tabet szamum's birth certificate has not even been found. and the school papers presented by his lawyer, to this day, have not been proven to be genuine or falsified school papers. and i would also like to point out that this is not a case of chicken theft, but a case of murder, so i would be a little more reserved and considerate than the previous speakers. the european union should consider, like other democratic countries in the world, like the united states, for example, the possibility of the death penalty for certain very serious and clearly established crimes.
in writing. in times of general financial stress, there are few more natural resources for achieving common european objectives than a tax on financial transactions at international or european level, eurobonds, european project bonds and other innovative financial instruments. if we are serious about our commitments and the objectives set out in the 2020 strategy, we must support the new types of financing instruments that will make them possible. fresh resources are needed to finance the construction of energy and transport networks, the fight against climate change and measures to promote social inclusion, without imposing additional burdens on taxpayers who are suffering from the consequences of austerity measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. a 0.05% transaction tax would add €200 billion to the coffers annually. in addition, the issuing of other innovative financial instruments, such as eurobonds, can contribute to the increase in budget revenue.
cooperation between the authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection and product safety rules is essential for the functioning of the internal market. the market surveillance and the rapex emergency alert system will continue to be developed, and hungarian experts will pay particular attention to the screening of dangerous products from the market. in my view, reducing fragmentation in the internal market also requires a stronger consumer dimension, thereby improving the functioning of retail markets and enabling consumers to make better choices. this can also play an important role in guaranteeing the most fundamental european values, such as fairness, openness, solidarity and transparency. i believe that increasingly close cooperation between member states is also of paramount importance for the functioning of an effective market surveillance system. consistent interpretation and action by market surveillance authorities is therefore essential for consistency. the authorities should consider a high level of cooperation not only with national associations but also with other member states as a priority. for example, in recent years, several cooperation agreements have been concluded or renewed in my country in this regard. these agreements focused on cooperation in the field of market surveillance. in short, we must show our citizens, not just in words but in deeds, the added value of europe and that the european union is more important than ever in the era of globalisation.
during the 2009 flu pandemic, the european union member states were the most prepared. i would also like to say that i fully agree with the previous speaker that there was no coordination between the member states. that's why the socialist government in my country at the time was able to successfully fight the epidemic, and yet there was a domestic political storm, even though there was no left-wing or right-wing h1n1 virus. we have to work together to stop this. i fully agree with the report that member states need to coordinate the procurement of vaccines, that information needs to be exchanged, that there needs to be more transparency. we need to exchange data not just about the geographical spread of the epidemic, but also about its severity and mortality, so that in the future we can make significant progress in this area in the... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the biggest lesson of the h1n1 scandal, as many of you know, is that people's trust has been severely shaken. the world health organization, with its loud and hysterical forecasts, has forced member states to take action that is disproportionate to the seriousness of the h1n1 epidemic. the h1n1 flu eventually sickened and killed significantly fewer people worldwide than a common seasonal flu, while countries spent an incredible amount of public money to purchase vaccines that cost two to three times the average. it is worth noting the case of poland, where the government did not vaccinate the population against influenza, yet the death rate there was not higher than in the countries where it was done. the reason for this was that the company that made the vaccine was so brazen that, despite its fat extra profits, it refused to take responsibility for the side effects of the vaccine! it is a very reprehensible thing to abuse people's fear and their sense of responsibility to their families and loved ones for the sake of base profit. the fact that it has even helped to do this by issuing unfounded pandemic alerts from the who is something against which the union must act most decisively. lessons must be learned and the eu should be given greater independence in assessing h1n1-like outbreak situations. because the wolf may actually come...
my fellow members of parliament! we have a frustration, because the european union is not only the world's largest food importer, but also the world's largest food exporter, so we are also very big beneficiaries of this liberalized international trade, of this global competition. i fully agree with my colleagues that the european commission has made a mistake when it formulated the mandate. the commission's director-general has also confessed to me that when he did not ask our trading partners to meet the same environmental, plant and animal health and animal welfare criteria in the wto negotiations, he was misinterpreting the mandate. but if you button a vest wrong, you have to button it again. we need to change this mandate and require the same from our partners in the future.
as the socialist group leader and draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, i congratulate mr häusling and thank him for his excellent cooperation. this report shows that the future of european livestock farming is threatened by the current protein shortage. and we don't really see any breakthrough opportunities, because neither our climate nor the cap's support system is encouraging the cultivation of crustaceans. there is one very important aspect to which i would like to draw the attention of commissioner damanaki, namely that the european commission should immediately dismantle the use of animal proteins in non-ruminants, poultry and pigs. there is no reason to maintain this prohibition on non-promiscuous... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, on the anniversary of international women’s day, when we are debating the plumb report on the face of female poverty and the nedelcheva report on inequality between women and men in the european union, and when the institutions are focusing on quotas for women on boards, the ps women group is dedicating its 2011 campaign to the issue of pension systems and female poverty. all european societies are facing ageing populations, and pension systems all over europe are being reformed. this is why the eu must send a signal that the lives of ordinary women are central to our concern. on the fundamental issue of pensions, the european commission should be leading the charge in closing the structural gaps between women and men. women should not be disadvantaged for reasons beyond their power: the pay gap, as my colleague mentioned, taking care of relatives and non-decent work. our first task is to raise awareness among women. we need to underline that during the ongoing discussions on pensions the female factor has come up very rarely. we want policy-makers to be aware of the effects of that and to make sure that precise data on women and pensions become available. the commission needs to conduct research on the gender effect in pension reforms in europe and i am sure that viviane reding will do that. we need to look at best practices at national level and look into a european approach. it really is time to think about what we have achieved during the last 100 years. we need a clear future for our children. it is also important to remind ourselves of what clara zetkin did one hundred years ago, because bridging the gender pay gap was her idea. it will be really important too that we make changes in the style of ginger rogers and fred astaire – remembering that ginger rogers had to do everything ‘backwards in high heels’.
on behalf of the ppe group. - my fellow members of parliament! today marks the 100th anniversary of international women's day, commemorating the demonstrations of working women in new york city in the late 1800s for equal pay. the goal of equal pay for equal work, set more than a century and a half ago in 1857, still holds true today. in the european union, women earn 15% less, in my own country, hungary, 16.5%, and although women make up more than half of the world's population, they share only 10% of global income. in addition to closing the gender pay gap, it is still necessary to adequately strengthen the role of women in the family and to enforce the principle of equal treatment. we cannot allow having children to be a poverty risk in europe, and we cannot allow women or mothers to be disadvantaged. whether in the framework of the un or the european union, genuine equality of opportunity between men and women is still not achieved in most places. we pay little attention to the situation of women living near the poverty line, to the phenomenon of multiple discrimination and to the reduction of domestic and gender-based violence.
madam president, i agree with most of the speakers so far that montenegro has made considerable progress towards eu integration despite a poor starting position. in common with the other former yugoslav republics, it has had to cope with the collapse of communism, coming together with the collapse of the state, the war that followed, and then having to build a new system on the ruins of the old. this is no easy task and some of the negative features of the previous system have lived on in new guises. what is important, however, is the emergence of a younger élite that has committed itself to a european future, in which it was certainly helped by the unsuccessful union with serbia. problems remain, of course. we have heard about some of these, the usual ones that former communist states have had to cope with: corruption, criminality, abuses in the administration of justice, a not particularly efficient public service, and the like. the remedying of these and parallel flaws in the political, economic, legal and administrative systems will require a major effort on the part of the leadership, and it should be prepared for both active and passive resistance from the beneficiaries of the existing system. every former communist country has had to face analogous difficulties. the determination of both elites and public opinion to offer a european future is probably the single most important factor ensuring montenegro’s eventual accession to the eu.
madam secretary of state győri! officer, you hear me? i am pleased that the hungarian presidency is making enlargement to the western balkans one of its priorities and i trust that it will make a valuable contribution to ensuring that montenegro is not only a candidate country but also that accession negotiations can finally begin. my colleagues have already spoken about the importance of tackling corruption in the accession of a western balkan country, but there are two other key issues. one is the neighborhood. montenegro has a very good record in this area, having signed agreements with croatia and serbia. and in the minority issue, you have an exemplary minority law, which in many respects has used the experience of my country, the hungarian model of minority self-government, but i regret that at the moment, the election law has been hampered by the lack of resolution of minority representation. i hope our friends in montenegro will solve this problem as well.
madam president, as a citizen of romania with a strong belief in the benefits of a prosperous multi-ethnic society based on peaceful coexistence and reconciliation between nations, i welcome montenegro’s efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria, as regards the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, and to correspond to european and international standards. montenegro is a parliamentary democracy based on a constitutional and legislative framework for the rule of law, human rights and the respect for and protection of minorities. however, there are serious gaps in the implementation of legislation. corruption remains prevalent; organised crime continues to be a serious problem and there are concerns over the efficiency of the judiciary. i encourage montenegro to continue its constructive engagement in regional cooperation and in strengthening bilateral relations with neighbouring countries.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the european parliament and also in all the civil organisations for their support and valuable input in drafting this heavy report. if you will allow me a personal comment, this is the place and time where i have to thank my colleagues in the office, my political advisor in the libe committee who has been behind this strategy for years and my head of cabinet in the last few years who has fought with me. i also owe gratitude to my family who allowed me to be in the forefront of this fight, a fight which has in the end produced a result. we have an agreement spanning six political groups, 27 member states and five very important parliamentary committees. in this way i believe we are able to send a message to the commission, the council and the member states that must be reckoned with and we have therefore made a great step towards an eu-level effort to alleviate the poverty and social exclusion of our continent’s largest ethnic minority. a significant proportion of european roma face such substandard conditions – almost totally disconnected from the economy resulting in their exclusion from basic human rights – that fostering social inclusion cannot be viewed within the framework of general policy ratification but must be handled as bridging one of the most enormous gaps in the fulfilment of constitutional and human rights in europe. the eu-level effort to alleviate the poverty and social exclusion of european roma must therefore place its primary emphasis on the fulfilment and promotion of the fundamental rights to employment, housing, healthcare and education. let me briefly outline the most important principles and recommendations of my report. above all, the strategy must be an internal eu strategy, the general oversight of priority areas and objectives must therefore be within the community structures and it should in no way be divisive for the eu, creating splits among the member states. on the contrary; establishing a new body to coordinate and supervise the strategy would be unnecessary and would create a wasteful overhead. the role of supervising, coordinating and monitoring must therefore be fulfilled by the commission and, to this end, it would be worth considering retaining the roma task force as a permanent body. the commission should report annually on the progress of the strategy, evaluate the results and submit its upgrading proposals to the council. in this regard the european roma strategy scoreboard, a mechanism similar to the single market scoreboard, could be developed. the appointment of an administrative body or a government official to be the national contact point for the implementation of the strategy’s objectives, and furthermore to act as a source of advice and reflection for the commission supervisory strategy, would also bring significant practical benefits. the strategy must also take into account the territoriality of exclusion since the geographic distribution of social disadvantages is not uniform throughout the member states, but poverty and social exclusion are concentrated in underdeveloped micro-regions, which in many of the new member states are predominantly inhabited by the roma community. common, comparable and reliable indicators are essential to present a realistic analysis of progress and to meet the requirements of effective monitoring. i recommend adopting the laeken indicators and their complementary components to measure social and territorial exclusion, as well as to evaluate progress. an all-european crisis map is necessary to measure and identify the micro regions by their distinctive attributes. part of the cohesion budget should be set aside in the next multiannual financial framework in a performance reserve for the strategy. this could provide vital resources and devise incentives for implementation by allocating funds on a competitive basis defined by the criterion of how the proposed project or intervention supports and implements the objectives of the strategy. this way, on the one hand, we could depart from the general practice of large contributions maximising their returns from the unabsorbed funds and, on the other hand, a direct link could be created between the allocation of financing and the reproduction of results. these are the principles and the priorities that i believe the european roma strategy must sustain and i am looking forward to your comments on my report. (applause).
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - madam president! let me start with a story. b. józsef and his wife were sentenced to 10-10 months in prison by a hungarian court in 2009 for endangering a minor. their fault was that their two children were not in school. but when they came in, the kids were sent home because they had dirty shoes and they were dirty. the gypsy farm where they live has no concrete road, so the children often had to cross the fields to get to school, their feet muddy. they endured the humiliation of being called names and sent home, and then they avoided school more and more. and their parents were sentenced to prison for it. b. joseph's children did not miss school because they did not want to learn. their circumstances did not allow them to study. without proper clothing and shoes, without water and electricity at home, without teaching materials, they had no chance of completing elementary school. the process of closing down a cluster of disadvantaged communities is complex. this can only be done step by step, adapting to local needs, and in the long term. europe can help by setting targets, providing the means, holding accountable the achievement of targets and monitoring the changing situation of roma, based on real data. it's developing ways that are less bureaucratic, faster, more transparent, and that support a community over the long term until it can really take care of itself. it is not enough to build a school for b. józsef's children, they must work to earn a living, feed, clothe, send their children to school. you need decent living conditions, where you can prepare for the next day's school lessons, where there is light and heating. we need a good road to get to school and work. and a human word that can make you forget your humiliations. the european roma strategy will not bring immediate change, but it does offer a chance. the real question is, can we create rules, can we create conditions that will get aid to those who can't compete for resources, who have little capacity for advocacy? there is a need to guarantee non-discrimination, not only in the labour market but in all areas of social life. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded programmes and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded programmes. and above all, political commitment from all those who can contribute to change the situation at european level. it is not enough to provide a framework for national roma strategies, but a genuine european roma strategy is needed, with responsibility at european level, without, of course, disputing the responsibility of the member states. i ask the commission and the council to transpose parliament's resolution in full and to report regularly to parliament on the results.
mr. secretary of state, officers reading and andor. first of all, let me congratulate járóka lívia on her excellent report and on all the work she has consistently done here since 2004 to protect the roma communities in europe. i'd like to take this discussion today from the perspective of the children. we must ensure that every child in europe today has access to opportunities and to advancement. whether it's a minority or a majority child. it means giving every child the chance to develop physically and mentally, which means the right to a daily hot meal as well as the right to an education. all of this, which today should appear as a right of the child, on the one hand, and the roma child on the other, should be seen as a duty and responsibility of the parents. today, the proportion of children who are disadvantaged and living in extreme poverty is 19%, at eu level, and a large number of these children are roma. a roma strategy at eu level, based on the járóka report, should therefore strengthen cohesion at member state and societal level, for example through crisis maps, and encourage local initiatives. because it's in all of our interests to prove that it's possible to change the way we think about our environment. i welcome the fact that the hungarian presidency is making this roma strategy one of its top priorities and that it is working closely with ms járóka on this.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the hungarian presidency and commissioners andor and reding on their very sincere commitment. but, mrs reding, the basic principles of protecting the rights of national minorities in europe should be clarified. firstly, the situation of any national minority is not a purely national matter, it is a european matter. secondly, effective integration of national minorities could be implemented on the basis of mutual but asymmetrical shared co-responsibility of the majority and minority. the majority has more responsibility, but the minority still has the responsibility. the integration of national minorities should be implemented without forced assimilation. in the end, the prohibition of discrimination is not enough. preferential treatment of positive actions could only contribute to the genuine integration of national minorities.
rapporteur. − madam president, i will be very brief. i would like to thank you very much for all your valuable comments. they reinforce my and my very good shadow rapporteurs’ view that political slogans will never become a reality without a proper legal basis, financial support and incentives as well as an eu mechanism to coordinate the actions of the stakeholders, ranging from local governments up to the council and harnessing the advantages of multi-level governance. this will place the whole situation in a new light. i firmly believe that, on the basis of the tasks, objectives, principles and instruments defined by all the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, and furthermore based on the shared competences as well as the supporting, coordinating and complementary actions of the union, a very strong strategy on roma inclusion can come into existence. to conclude, i would like to express the hope i have formed, over the past six years, that the upcoming commission communication will be able to endorse these points and provide a very good basis on which the hungarian presidency can pledge its commitment to launching this european roma strategy. i am very grateful for this. i am aware that this european strategy is not going to solve the problem; i know that a huge amount depends on us, the roma. words and promises mean nothing without actions outside of brussels and in the roma settlements. governments and roma must do what they have signed up to: take determined action to deliver tangible results. we understand our responsibility in this and we are fully in favour of our common partnership. this process for us roma, and i believe for the whole european union, is about much more than mutual trust. it is also about building a community of values that we can all share, and that we can all enjoy, to be able to really challenge the difficulties that we have been discussing here over the last six years. i thank you very much for all your support and i would like to join renate weber and the other shadow rapporteurs in thanking the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties and all the advisers who, with us, have been fighting very hard for this.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my sincere appreciation for the fact that the hungarian eu presidency has included the issue of roma inclusion among its priorities. the hungarian government's commitment to this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the hungarian people's party delegation includes rapporteur járóka lívia, the only roma representative in the european parliament, and that the rapporteur of the case, zoltán balog, is leading the newly established state secretariat for the elimination of disadvantaged gypsies. on this basis, we can rightly say that the hungarian eu presidency is setting a good example for europe in the settlement of the roma issue. with regard to the roma strategy, i consider it important to stress that the question of the integration of the 12 million roma living in the union is a common european issue, which requires the involvement of the individual member states and the eu institutions. prime minister viktor orbán rightly pointed out that if we do not want the problems of roma living in deep poverty and social and ethnic exclusion to be "exported" to the developed countries of the eu by way of "nomadisation" emigration , then we must find a solution to their unsustainable situation by acting together and using common efforts. i wish the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, and not least the hungarian eu presidency, a fruitful work towards the preparation and final adoption of the landmark roma integration strategy by june this year.
madam president! i was pleased to note that the industrial policy report refers in several places to the crucial importance of smes for the present and future of european industry, european workers and all of us. from now on, every document, every topic should focus on the promotion of smes. these small companies are the ones that provide the majority of jobs, they are the ones that are able to renew themselves the most, they are the ones that can play the biggest role in innovation, in stopping the breakdown of the european economy. and they also pay most of the taxes into the budgets, so they're essentially the ones who maintain the bureaucratic apparatus. in return, the bureaucracy has created a legal, institutional and economic environment, along with a banking system, that seeks to make it impossible for smes to operate. this short-term approach to profit-making by multinational companies cannot be continued. the report rightly states that speculative money market activity should be discouraged, but today more needs to be done. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose sanctions on banks that do not promote the provision of capital to smes through their credit policies. the report also suggests that industry is in decline in the newly joined countries and that the eu needs to find ways to stop unfair behaviour by large companies. it must be said openly that, with the assistance of the eu bureaucracy, the multinational companies of the old member states have in recent years bought up and destroyed much of the manufacturing industry of the newly joined member states, then bankrupted these companies and took over their markets. the result is millions of jobs and no vision, easy profits in the east and big tax revenues in the west. also, with the assistance of bureaucracy, unfortunately, a lot of the technology that was accumulated in europe was transferred to china.
the economic crisis has shown that the service sectors are much more sensitive than industrial policy, and europe needs to put industrial policy back on the map. i therefore welcome both commissioner tajani's approach and the report by our colleague, mr bernd lange, on this subject. it was a pleasure working on this report. each of my colleagues wanted to contribute something. we didn't argue about what was difficult, but how we could speed up the process. we need to understand that the european union has a leading role to play in setting its own objectives and in drawing the member states along. the european union must coordinate, lead and hold the member states to account for what they have done in this area. industrial policy offers europe the opportunity to gain a competitive edge in manufacturing, biotechnology, nanotechnology, chemicals and even space. we have to understand that in the industrial policy of the 21st century, the intensity of knowledge is increasing and the efficiency of the use of materials is improving. at the same time, vertical links from education through research to market opportunities need to be strengthened. it is necessary to develop supply chains, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and horizontal links. we think social dialogue is inevitable.
madam president, commissioner, when my grandmother was born, she was one of the two billion living on earth; when i was born, i was one of the five billion on earth; and when my granddaughter is born, she will be one of the nine billion living on earth. so extensive technologies must be replaced by intensive technologies for all resources, including rare materials. therefore i would like to remember somebody who, a hundred years ago, received a nobel prize for chemistry for the separation and purification of radium and polonium: maria skłodowska, who is known as madame curie. we need madame curies, we need scientists, we need breakthrough technologies. i would therefore like to ask you, commissioner, to do your utmost to ensure that chemistry remains a place for young talent in europe.
madam president, it was good to see the commissioner in ljubljana at the opening of acer. i think it is good news for our colleagues. shale gas is an opportunity to be a part of the solution. therefore, before we can exploit it, we politicians have to do everything we can in order not to destroy public acceptance, but rather to build it. one difference certainly exists compared to the united states. europe’s population density is much higher than in the us. therefore i think we have to ask the commission to make an impact assessment. we were thinking of introducing a pilot project and putting aside a bit of money, under the committee on industry, research and energy, to run this and to finance the impact assessment from eu funds. i think if we want to build on this technology, which could be part of the solution, we need public acceptance.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! gas produced using non-conventional technologies could play a key role in the eu energy market in the future. the commission considers that the measures are necessary to ensure that the union market is sufficiently open to competition and that the union market is sufficiently open to competition. it is also important that the deployment of new gas sources within the union could contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective manner. in the united states, new technology has already revolutionized the gas market in recent years. with more than half of current us production coming from alternative gas sources, gas prices have fallen significantly and there is no longer a need to rely on imported sources. in europe, the world's largest gas market, the exploitation of alternative gas sources is still in its infancy. despite the successes in the us, the results of the european pilot projects so far have fallen short of expectations. in addition to the different geographical features, investors face greater regulatory and environmental risks in europe. in order to translate the successes of the us into the eu, it would be important for europe to have an appropriate strategy for alternative gas sources. a comprehensive study at european level would be needed to clarify the opportunities and risks of alternative gas sources. europe cannot afford to give up the luxury of alternative gas production within the union at a time when the traditional gas resources of the north sea are being depleted.
mr president, we are all aware of the current economic crisis and the danger it presents in general to our lives, in particular to the euro, which is crucial for the european political and economic project. we need to maintain the stability of the eurozone in the principle of responsibility and solidarity for all member states in need. that said, i would like to underline three points. even when desperate times call for desperate measures and simplified procedures, in the long run it is not possible to ignore transparency, parliamentary scrutiny and democratic accountability. the stability mechanism should represent the first part of a complex approach and permanent measures aimed at working towards the union’s economic governance. the permanent stability mechanism, once established, should not exist outside the eu institutional framework. let me finally thank our rapporteurs for the outstanding job they have done on this extremely important, urgent and complicated matter. even without much information on the stability mechanism it deserves a place in the eu institutional framework. i am very pleased that the president of hungary will be coming here soon.
last october, we received specialists and financial resources from eu member states for the red-hot disaster in hungary. but no help worth having. it was extremely difficult to explain to people why humanitarian aid could be given to citizens of non-eu countries and not to eu member states. it is clear that the principle of 'pay what you can' should apply in the event of industrial disasters, but these companies often do not have enough money. the commission promised to make environmental insurance compulsory for hazardous plants. i would also suggest that, with appropriate regulation, the solidarity fund should be made available for the partial mitigation of industrial disasters, i repeat, partial ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. in its communication of 23 february 2009 on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, the commission inter alia undertook to collect existing sources of information on prevention measures and disasters. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that there has been a remarkable and exemplary practice in new zealand of informing the deaf and hard of hearing about the recent disaster. the new zealand government issued a number of information aids and a dvd at the end of 2010 to prepare affected and competent actors and the sign-language population for a possible disaster. the result was a measurable recovery in lives and property, which - despite the unfortunate tragedies that have unfortunately occurred - has been a source of pride for the queensland government and the australian communications and media authority (acma), according to local ngos and the world federation of the deaf (wfdeaf.org), due to the excellent preparation and cooperation, particularly in the implementation of live and instant communication to the deaf. in this light, i hope that the commission will look at this good practice in non-eu countries and promote and encourage it among member states and in the use of eu funds.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as i am not a member of the transport committee and some members might wonder why i am so keen to speak on this very issue. but i was, like others, a victim of the ash cloud. i was travelling to baku and could only get back with great difficulties. this concerns all european citizens. it was an opportunity for europe to show its added value – and we failed. i think european citizens understood that the eu was not yet prepared for taking a single action, but we have to make sure that we are ready to take a single action in the next similar case. therefore i think that the need for the single european sky project is imperative. we all agree on that. although i am not a member of the transport committee, i would like to mention that not only a single european sky is needed, but also a single european infrastructure connected to this. therefore, here in this plenary session, i would like to draw attention to the need for galileo and for gmes – as they are potentially a great european infrastructure if we can build them – to deliver on that purpose. this is why we are working to get the budget lines for those issues, but we have to explain better to european citizens why these projects are needed. this is why i wanted to take the floor to make the point that, alongside european policies, european infrastructure in this field is necessary.
mr president the volcanic eruption has to be reviewed in terms of transportation priorities. it's time to favor rail for medium-distance travel up to 1,500 kilometers. this may be achieved by using subsidies, taxes and other regulators as appropriate. it is important that there is a significant domestic demand for track retrofitting and railway rolling stock. many new jobs could be created. compared to high-speed trains, the aircraft offers zero minimum time advantage for check-in, airport transfer and huge carbon dioxide and noise pollution. we cannot prevent volcanoes from erupting, but we can improve our ability to predict eruptions and assess the situation. but the only real solution is to transform transportation, energy policy and industrial policy, because volcanic eruptions do not disrupt rail transportation, or only very locally.
my colleagues! as my colleague mr marinescu has already mentioned, during the volcanic ash europe was strategically and technically unprepared for this situation. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that this has also affected information and access to information. disadvantaged groups like families with small children, people with disabilities felt the disadvantage of this because of the communication chaos. they couldn't take the chance. i ask the commission whether, in a similar crisis since april 2010, every citizen travelling will have access to the right information to exercise his right to information.
mr president, i would like to remind the house of the double standards which we are applying. in the case of the hungarian media law, an event which took place on monday was not reflected in our resolution. now we are trying to include something which happened only yesterday. this is a clear double standard which this house is applying, which is deplorable and unacceptable.
mr president, madam minister, members of the committee, the latest economic data show that europe is emerging from the crisis. this process can be further strengthened by the next eu summit. this weekend's council meeting could be a breakthrough in european politics, bringing european solidarity to a new level. one important element of the package of measures to be adopted is the macroeconomic coordination cycle, the european semester, the first phase of which is concluded by a synthesis report prepared by the hungarian presidency. this report is also important because it provides an opportunity to paint an economic picture of a competitive union after the crisis. the hungarian presidency played a major role in the adoption of the general guidelines for the six-pack of legislative proposals during the past week, which will allow parliament and the council to begin the process of adopting the legislative package. (the president cut the speaker off)
i congratulate the hungarian presidency on its activities in recent weeks. it's a real success story. but it is also a european success. the european council meeting in the second half of the week is likely to result in a final agreement on the new economic policy framework of the european union. this could open a new chapter in the whole process of european integration. we have a very great responsibility in the new framework of economic governance, and so does the european parliament, because it would be good to adopt these six pieces of legislation at first reading. if we delay, all of europe could lose. i congratulate messrs. brok and gualtieri on their report today. thank you for the council's flexibility and the european parliament's not just now... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. – the upcoming council meeting is indeed a very important one. president herman van rompuy, in his public invitation letter, notes that ‘as an important step in the new framework of the european semester, we should give guidance for national economic policies with a view to implementing our europe 2020 strategy’. we should not bypass this point on the agenda as secondary behind the economic package. everybody knows that the key to european economic growth is employment. the europe 2020 strategy aims at an employment rate of 75% among men and women aged between 20-64. everybody knows, in theory, that this 75% threshold will not be attained without the massive participation and appearance of women on the labour market. therefore, i ask two things of the council ahead of its upcoming meeting. the first one is to be ambitious and explicit when it comes to employment guidelines, and especially when it comes to female employment. secondly, i ask you to reaffirm your commitment to european targets and guidelines that allow for the massive participation of women on the labour market, especially the barcelona targets for daytime childcare, which we know, are far from being met in the eu.
thank you very much, mr. president. first of all, i would like to express my deep sympathy and secondly, my respect for the japanese people and the japanese nation. and thirdly, my deepest admiration and appreciation for the japanese heroes who are still working at the plant. a tragedy has occurred that will forever be remembered in the history of japan and the world. the disaster-stricken island has asked the european union for assistance in coordinating in advance the assistance offered by the member states. the commission's swift response and the fact that the commissioner has confirmed that all assistance will be provided to the island and to the approximately half a million people who are in shelters following the devastation caused by the earthquake and tsunami is welcome. i am convinced that everything must be done to reverse the effects of the disaster and to restore living conditions. but i also want to express my opinion that it is not wise to oppose the use of nuclear energy to such tragedies and others like them. at the same time, of course, nuclear power plants must be equipped with the highest safety systems and then continuously monitored according to the strictest standards. the commission's proposal to organise a broad european consultation is welcomed. at the same time, i feel it is necessary and i support the commission's proposal to draw up guidelines which will also provide the basis for a coordinated and well-functioning european safety system and guarantee the continued safe production of nuclear energy for the future. the attitude of the japanese people is exemplary and can serve as a model for us. i believe they deserve all the support they can get. thank you, mr president.
mr. president, i have to go. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! we're all a little japanese today. even in the midst of a natural disaster, we must say that nuclear safety is a human issue. the design, construction, operation, dismantling and, as now, the accident management at the fukushima plant is a test of human knowledge and commitment. the european stress test is an important step in planning for the unthinkable in the future. officer, please! the best way to show respect for fukushima workers is to involve european professionals in european professional and political decision-making. we're recruiting nuclear workers whose commitment and knowledge are indispensable. in the medium term, it is very important to maintain and improve nuclear know-how, because it is the real guarantee of security. and i would like to draw your attention again to what mrs. marita ulvskog said. nuclear research and development needs to provide answers, better than today, to how we can manage nuclear waste, which is a 60-year history that we live with. thank you for listening.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, allow me to express my deepest sympathy to the japanese people and the families of the victims of the extraordinary natural and industrial disaster that occurred just 12 days ago. the japanese tragedy is a warning that natural and industrial disasters can strike anywhere, anytime - even in europe. the only question is when and where. i therefore consider it important that the union should have adequate financial means to respond quickly and effectively to any industrial disaster in europe and to mitigate the damage. the union's efforts to prevent are of course very important, but at present the union does not have a financial instrument to meet this need. just think what would happen if a disaster struck a member state in difficult economic circumstances. in addition to the devastating social and environmental consequences, this would also have a serious impact on the national budget and the european economy. i believe that europe therefore needs a new disaster insurance system which, based on the principle of compulsory liability insurance, would provide an additional source of around eur 4-5 billion per year from the contributions of potential polluters for rapid financial assistance in the event of industrial disasters. in addition, the scheme would also benefit the payers by allowing them to apply for aid for their safety and environmental investments from the unused funds through calls for tenders.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the japanese nation on behalf of the movement for a better hungary and the entire hungarian people. hungarians have always treated the japanese with love and kinship, so the disaster was especially shocking. the european union has a duty to help the japanese people, to give all the help that japan needs. at the same time, we must draw the consequences of this catastrophe, which clearly shows humanity that a globalized world that is alienated from nature is extremely fragile. there's a hungarian saying that says a smart man learns at the expense of others. the people of europe must learn from this disaster and, by returning as much as possible to nature, to natural food, to natural energy sources, preserve our environment for future generations.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! when we talk about migration these days, we obviously can't do without first analyzing the situation in north africa. on the one hand, it is a joy that the people of north africa have felt the breeze of democracy, but it is a pity that masses are dying in these days and at these hours. children, women, civilians, innocent people. i should add that this is only a short-term effect. because in the long run, the negative effects of migration will actually show up. consider the simple fact that in libya, nearly half a million people have fled the country as refugees in recent days. and what makes it especially difficult for these refugees to settle is that western europe is overcrowded. in eastern europe, however, the predominance of roma and their ethnic composition make it difficult to accept additional immigrants. and in western europe, it's black africans or arabs. but let's ask the question: what if we settled these immigrants in europe? what happens after that? who's giving them jobs? what about social tensions? what about religious, ethnic, cultural tensions? in this situation, it is impossible to force more immigrants into europe. and the reason this process, this liberal structure, has been hampered is because fundamentally this concept of migration is flawed. well, look at you liberal members of congress, how many of you are in this room on a subject that's important to you. well, there's one or two members of the liberal caucus here. shame on you. and they should not expect to achieve their goals by engaging in such activity in plenary sessions. and the european refugee fund should be used to create livelihoods for those people in north africa and the refugee countries on the ground, and to give european people back their dignity, their jobs! thank you very much.
mr. president, i have to go. secretary of state! we see, as you have said, that the events of the past few weeks show that the refugee question can become a serious, acute issue in europe at any moment. it is also clear that the union is not prepared for emergencies, for a major wave of refugees, for a strategic solution to the refugee situation. one important tool in this is the issue of resettlement. and of course, we expect more solidarity, better coordination. but as we've said in this debate, we need a social consensus on this. and that is where we all have a role to play, and the member states too. in any case, we appreciate the fact that the hungarian presidency does not want to remove legal obstacles and shows openness and commitment to resolving this issue.
mr. president, i have to go. the european consumer rules currently in force follow the principle of minimum harmonisation. they give member states the possibility of derogating, but at the same time they put the eu at a competitive disadvantage. i'm pleased that mr. schwab has prepared such a fine report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. reducing fragmentation in the union's internal market requires stronger consumer enforcement and enabling consumers to make better choices without businesses being disadvantaged by new regulation. the single internal market requires a single european consumer rule. it is therefore important that there is agreement at first reading.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am very pleased that the rapporteur's ability to compromise has enabled the customs preferences system to be extended in time. the hungarian presidency of the european council played a very important role in this process. if the tariff preferences were not extended now, the world's poorest countries would be severely disadvantaged. it is regrettable that the european commission has been late in submitting this proposal to parliament and that there has been no substantive debate. the gsp regulation is worth amending. the tariff concessions granted to the world's richest oil-exporting countries, such as the united arab emirates or saudi arabia, cannot be justified. it is worth considering whether russia, which is not a member of the wto because it has not wanted to join and very often uses trade policy to exert pressure on foreign policy, deserves to receive trade preferences. consideration should also be given to how sustainability considerations could be integrated into the tariff preference system. because today, countries that are already blocking the adoption of climate agreements on the international stage, or are actually exporting unsustainably produced products to the european union, often by clearing out rainforests or emitting huge amounts of co2, are also getting trade concessions. i think the next tariff reduction scheme will have to address these issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! just two weeks ago, on march 11 and march 12, the chairman of the movement for jobbik hungary held a meeting in transylvania, szeklerland, at marosvásárhely. so, in addition to believing in the importance of szekler's territorial self-determination, we published the central european, european platform, which would be a great step in terms of romanian-hungarian reconciliation. after the board meeting, i was in partium, visiting the coinage area. i gave a lecture in the village of ermihaili where the desire of the approximately 3-400000 hungarians living in the patrium to preserve their hungarian identity, to educate their children in the hungarian language, was shown with elementary force. they want self-determination. so many people are affected by this that i would ask the european parliament to find a time when we can have a sitting, an item on the agenda, where we can discuss both the question of autonomy for the seychelles and the question of autonomy for the mint.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow officers! in memory of the revolution and war of independence of 1848-49, the hungarians of the world celebrated their national holiday on march 15. our world-renowned poet, alexander petőfi, gave his life for freedom in 1849. on march 20, the anniversary of the death of another great figure in the struggle for freedom, we remembered governor lajos kossuth, the father of hungarian parliamentary democracy, who spent half his life in foreign exile. the love of freedom of our people is symbolically demonstrated by the fact that two of our national radio stations are named after lajos kossuth and sándor petőfi. in one of our freedom fighter poets' most outstanding poems, he commemorates those heroes, "those who died for you, holy world freedom!" this revolutionary spirit of world freedom once permeated the hungarian youth, and freedom-loving europe stands in this spirit with the revolutionary arab youth and all the peoples of the world fighting for freedom.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! there are 30 million blind and partially sighted people in europe today. have you ever considered that you have to deal with unresolved issues in a normal shopping trip? in many cases, they cannot identify a simple box or bottle when they pick it up. when they're lifted off the shelf, they don't know what they're holding, and there's no question that they have a right to live a life of independence and security. i would therefore like to encourage you, together with five colleagues from four political groups, to ask manufacturers of industrial products to voluntarily label their boxes in braille. and i would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to support the declaration of 14/2011 that deals with this by signing it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i am personally in favour of a free trade agreement between the european union and the gulf cooperation council. the region can be an important strategic partner of the european union in trade, including enhanced security of oil supply. i think it is imperative that we have closer economic ties. the european union's competitiveness requires finding new markets and new partners, but the european union already plays a significant role in these areas, and the formal strengthening of relations is of paramount importance. a constructive but flexible approach from both sides is needed to bring the negotiating process, which has lasted for 20 years, to a successful conclusion, so that the positions, which are currently rather rigid, can be reconciled. if we are serious about the european union being competitive with the united states, china, india, it is essential that we penetrate into the various economic areas where other major powers may already have priorities, and that we prioritise and give greater weight to those market segments and to the existing market priorities.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. it is important to take seriously the concerns of european citizens about the respect of their data protection rights. we consider it important that there should be an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on data protection in the field of criminal and judicial cooperation. we welcome the fact that the hungarian presidency is active in the field of data protection. in this respect, the council conclusions on data protection adopted at the february meeting of the justice and home affairs council are particularly noteworthy. we look forward to the commission's proposals to ensure that our freedoms and data security are both protected and respected.
madam president! i suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that after the last few speeches, we try to return to the ground of reality. the reporter was in a difficult situation when he prepared this material. we cannot really talk about figures until the commission has shown us the framework within which it envisages the budget for the next year. but you can talk about principles. and here the rapporteur has partly got the point very well in that he has tried to incorporate the 2020 policy into the budgetary framework. however, his decision not to comment on the policies at this stage, nor on their outlines and objectives, does indeed justify some criticisms that the material seems a bit empty. i think we can all agree that, as in previous years, we continue to attach great importance to cohesion policy. this policy is now really coming into play towards the end of the cycle, where the biggest demands for payments are coming in. and i would like to emphasize very strongly, unlike others, that these payments are not for their own sake, they are not about spending money, but about using it in ways that really advance the european cause, that advance the recovery of the less-developed regions. if you don't do that, you're doing it wrong! and then parliament must act against all kinds of spending that is wrong and prestigious. i think the committee on budgets is doing a pretty good job of fighting this double battle, working with the committees. thank you for your attention.
madam president! my fellow members of the house of representatives! the 2012 budget is the sixth of seven budgets in the current multiannual financial framework. the two arms of the budgetary authority therefore had a clear picture of the shortcomings and positive developments in relation to the existing multiannual programmes. the 2012 appropriations should allow the union's objectives and priorities to be achieved in the context of the 2020 strategy. this will help europe emerge stronger from the crisis. promoting employment, innovation, research and development, energy strategy objectives and social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty. of course, the 2020 strategy can only be credible if it is adequately funded. we would like to remind everyone that this serious political concern has been raised by parliament on a number of occasions. the member states and the council must now be called upon to act responsibly and decisively. we cannot afford to have less europe in a world where natural disasters, economic crises can unexpectedly destroy the lives of millions. where the impact of a tragedy like this doesn't just affect one country, one ethnic group, one religious community, but it affects an entire region, across oceans. we need more europe! and to use social media more effectively. thank you for listening.
thank you very much. i'm going to give the floor to congresswoman meissner, who has a minute.
member of the commission. − mr president, can i say to mr simpson that the number of speakers on a very technical report shows what important work he has been doing and how important this is. despite being technical, we certainly needed to revise this regulation, which is very important. it will also be possible to put up a robust, analytical framework so that we are capable of making informed policy decisions regarding all the aspects of tourism that have been mentioned here today and many more besides. as tourism develops, we must also, of course, catch up with the statistics. the three institutions have together made a proposal that balances the need to have information on the one hand, but also to respect the burden on respondents on the other. i would like to congratulate mr simpson on the report and thank parliament for this debate.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report by mrs eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on the proposal for a new eu policy framework to combat violence against women (2010/2209 (ini)) (a7-0065/2011)
i congratulate the reporter on her excellent work. i am proud that in hungary i wrote about 15 years ago the first two books on the phenomenon of violence against women. i'm less proud of the fact that almost nothing has happened in this area since then. it is true that there is no and cannot be a single european union regulation, but a lot of european taxpayers' money goes to prevention and treatment programmes. i would like to ask the commissioner in particular how she is monitoring the proper use of these funds. i have a suggestion: don't ask governments, ask the abused women involved. for example, ask abused women who have fled to a maternity home about the help they have received and how the authorities are dealing with their cases, or ask girls and women who are suffering on the streets of budapest or amsterdam and who are trying to escape from the hell of prostitution about the help they receive from the states, from the governments.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this very important debate on a subject that is obviously dear to many of us. again, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her important report, and also the shadow rapporteurs. as i outlined in my introduction, we are planning several measures on this. the victims’ rights package is, of course, extremely important and will come next month. we also have the general equality policy for prevention programmes, awareness-raising and so on. we are also following very closely the finalisation, right now, of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, in order – when it is ready – to propose to the council that the european union adhere to it, which would then make it legally binding in the areas where the european union has competence. i would also like to mention two other proposals that you have adopted: the directive on combating trafficking, for instance, contains a lot of preventive measures but also support for victims, for women and children who are victims of trafficking for sexual and other purposes. also in the different parts of the asylum package, special notice is taken of vulnerable people in asylum procedures, such as women who have been victims of sexual violence, etc. the problem is, as you have all outlined, enormous, and it is a shame that women and girls in our european union are afraid on a daily basis. they are afraid of violence, rape and sexual abuse, and often from the people they love the most, whom they should be able to trust the most – husbands, partners, etc. we need to act, and we need to act where we can see concrete results. this is surely one of the most horrendous violations of human rights. i would like to congratulate those very few but still brave men who have contributed to this debate, because violence against women is not a women’s issue: it is a human rights issue. we can only achieve results here if we work together, men and women, to combat this horrendous phenomenon. we need to work together: we need to achieve a europe where women and girls do not have to fear violence just because they belong to the so-called ‘wrong sex’.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
thank you for your time, madam president. the hungarian eu presidency is halfway through, so it is worth reviewing the results so far. the recent agreement in principle in the council on a six-pack of legislation to strengthen economic governance is a significant achievement. the rapid adoption of the new rules by parliament could greatly improve the competitiveness of the european economy. the energy summit in february was a real breakthrough. strengthening the common energy market and developing infrastructure will finally lead to a common european energy policy. in addition, key agreements were reached on the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. there are, of course, still open issues, such as the eu's roma strategy. by accepting this, the eu will finally officially take responsibility for the roma's upbringing. ladies and gentlemen, the success of the hungarian presidency is also a success for europe. i therefore ask you to continue to support the achievement of our common objectives by voting. thank you for your time, madam president.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the natural disaster in japan and the resulting nuclear disaster have brought attention to the importance of this subject. the effects of a disaster, like chernobyl, can last for decades, leaving a sad, unintended legacy for future generations. this case also demonstrated the need to reduce energy waste and to gradually shift the focus to renewable energy sources. today's report criticizes the financing of the closure of nuclear power plants in the new member states on several points in terms of transparency and execution. i believe that it is extremely important, in addition to the closure of the nuclear power stations mentioned in the report, that all european nuclear power stations be reviewed and, if necessary, made safer so that a similar disaster does not occur in the future. that is why i ask my colleagues to discuss the motion for a resolution which we recently tabled with my austrian colleague on the nuclear safety of the danube region as part of a common european approach. thank you for your attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached at the european summit is the first major political success of the hungarian presidency. it's mostly conservative success. it's up to the unit to make it happen. it is therefore regrettable and in need of explanation that four countries with conservative governments have not committed themselves to the euro plus pact. it is a sad and disgusting attitude that what we as the next president propose to others we do not consider acceptable to ourselves. whoever is left out is left out! a country that does not aim to break through through through knowledge and competitiveness, but instead to win the competition for cheap wage labour and taxation, will be the poor house of the european union in the medium term. speaking of the tax race, mr. president. how do you explain the fact that the council did not discuss the issue of tax havens? do you think that this is not a problem for european citizens? they're wrong! we expect much more progress from the council and the commission. allow me to deal with the natural disaster in japan and the industrial disaster that followed. 12,000 dead, 17,000 missing, hundreds of thousands homeless and millions without work. the european union, which values solidarity, must help! the disaster shook the world's energy and commodity markets. it will determine the political and economic environment in the long run. we must improve the nuclear safety of the world! we need to develop standards that make this possible. we must increase r & d investment and we must strengthen diversification in european energy policy! these goals, mr president, are already set out in the 2020 objectives. it is up to the council and the commission to provide the means and the resources to do so. we wish you a good job on this.
president van rompuy described the euro plus pact as a new stage in future economic coordination, and it is indeed a completely new era in macroeconomic coordination. the same was said by prime minister viktor orbán, the eu's president-elect, who described it as the pillar of the future european economic system. it is regrettable, however, that hungary's name was not included in the list that mr van rompuy mentioned, since hungary is not, unfortunately, a party to the euro plus pact. many hungarian citizens and economists do not understand why the hungarian government has taken this decision, since hungary is a small country with an open economy, and the argument that this would have hindered tax competition is not true, it would only be a question of harmonizing the corporate tax base. it's a pity hungary is not included.
in writing. it is important that we all come together at difficult, decisive times in the life of europe to assess the objectives we have to achieve and the positive changes that have taken place towards them. the hungarian presidency has achieved a breakthrough success in the areas of economic governance, the stability mechanism and the european semester for the second time. the latest european council meeting at the end of march also resulted in a series of negotiations leading to a limited amendment to the eu treaty, aimed at enhancing the stability of the euro area and the euro. at the council meeting, the hungarian presidency voted in favour of a sound, viable and responsible economic policy, where, in addition to institutionalising the european semester, it also strengthened the stability mechanism. however, it should be stressed that the elements of economic governance are in no way to be confused with the euro plus pact, which at this stage is an intergovernmental agreement. while the pact may be good, the single internal market cannot be regulated by extra-contractual intergovernmental agreements. the uncertainty in the pact the content of tax harmonisation means that hungary does not intend to apply the agreement in full for the time being, as we are interested in increasing our competitive advantage and thereby in creating real jobs and economic growth in the long term.
when we look at the news on the fukushima accident and the debates on the consequences, we do not see the shareholders there. we see neither the financial investors nor the members of the political class, but we see the employees: the workers are fighting this accident. i fully support strengthening nuclear safety standards, but are you ready to invite the employee representatives, namely the trade unions, to the multi-stakeholder dialogue in order to strengthen and achieve standards and are you ready globally to promote the nuclear safety standards achieved? if so, how do you propose doing this?
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am presenting, together with my colleague, lászló andor, the decision which the commission has taken to present a new framework for national roma integration strategies. the eu framework comes at a moment when the situation of roma has become a real focus of attention in europe. the eu has made available to the member states a range of legal, policy and financial instruments to address the situation of the roma. we also have a whole legal framework based on non-discrimination, free movement of people and the enlargement strategy. however it is very clear that the economic and social marginalisation of the roma persists, and this is neither acceptable nor sustainable in the european union of the 21st century. parliament, with support from across the whole political spectrum – and i would like to underline this – has drawn attention to the urgency of promoting the integration of roma, through its recently adopted resolution on the eu roma strategy. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs járóka, for her excellent work. determined action is needed, both at national and at european level. we need to join forces and step up our efforts to end discrimination against roma and make sure they enjoy the same rights as any other european citizens, because that is what they are. when i say that, i of course have in mind a two-way process which requires a change in the mindset of the majority of our european citizens and of members of the roma communities. we all agree that there is a need for effective policy planning and implementation as well as for a strategic common approach. we all know that the primary responsibility for the integration of roma lies with the member states. we also acknowledge that the situation of the roma varies greatly from one member state to another. that is why the commission decided to present an eu framework to enable the member states to take action commensurate with the challenge they have to overcome. the roma task force which was set up in september last year, and reported in december, showed clearly that, very often, not enough is being done. the eur 26.5 billion which are available under the structural funds are not being utilised as they should be. only eur 100 million of this money was earmarked for specific roma activities, while 70% of the means for technical assistance, which would have been necessary in most member states, was simply not used. so the measures in place so far are not adequate. it is now time to ensure that national, regional and local policies focus on roma needs in a clear and specific way. in our framework we concentrate on four main issues: education, employment, health and housing. we want the eu and the 27 member states to commit themselves to closing the gaps and to concentrate on the common goals in those four areas with targeted actions and sufficient funds to deliver them. we want all member states to build these goals into their existing roma strategy, if they have one, or to develop a roma strategy if they do not have one, for the period up to 2020. in order to check whether these efforts achieve their objectives, we need regular monitoring. therefore the eu framework lays the foundations for a robust monitoring mechanism to ensure concrete results for the roma. this monitoring mechanism will ensure that the national roma strategies are implemented, that money intended for roma integration reaches its final beneficiaries, and that there is progress towards achieving the roma integration goals. the commission will report annually on progress made towards integrating the roma population in the member states. the eu framework provides an opportunity for all stakeholders, at all levels, to join forces with the eu population in general and the roma population in particular in order to put an end to the exclusion of more than 10 million european citizens, which we can no longer afford for the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the socio-economic situation of roma is at the top of the eu agenda. last month this house adopted the járóka report on an eu strategy on roma inclusion. and today, the commission adopted a communication on an eu framework for national roma integration strategies. both documents make significant contributions to the wider debate on roma, and will feed into the conclusions to be adopted at the next council meeting of employment and social affairs ministers on 19 may, which will be exclusively devoted to the integration of roma. those documents articulate the eu’s political determination to address the situation of millions of roma who are suffering from economic and social exclusion. i would like to make three key points here. firstly, the commission has set out an eu framework for national roma integration strategies. it acknowledges the member states’ prime responsibility for designing and implementing roma integration strategies. it also reaffirms the commission’s deep conviction that the european union cannot tolerate any form of racism, xenophobia, discrimination or social exclusion of roma. the union has a moral and political obligation to support the member states in their efforts with all the policies and instruments at its disposal. secondly, as you know, the union has agreed on a comprehensive strategy for developing the european economic and social model in a balanced way. the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the right policy context for addressing the multifaceted problems facing roma. we must harness europe 2020’s objectives, targets, flagship initiatives and reporting structures for the cause of the roma. the key message is that excluding millions of eu citizens from economic and social life is not smart, is not sustainable and is certainly not inclusive. in short, there is no excuse for roma exclusion to continue in the europe we want to live in. in particular, the europe 2020 headline targets for employment, poverty reduction and education are key benchmarks for measuring progress in roma integration policies. the commission’s communication on roma identifies four areas that are of strategic importance to overcome roma exclusion. these are as follows. access to employment: the big gap between roma and non-roma employment rates has to be addressed. we will not achieve our europe 2020 targets if we do not do it. access to education: all roma children should have access to quality education and not face discrimination or segregation. as a minimum, all roma children should complete primary school. access to healthcare: reducing the gap in health between roma and non-roma. member states should provide access to quality healthcare under the same conditions as for the rest of the population. access to housing and essential services: where the situation of the roma people is indeed much worse than that of the rest of the population, for example where access to water, electricity and other services are concerned. the lack of an integrated approach has a negative impact on the overall integration of roma people in society and leaves them in poverty. thirdly, the union must put its money where its mouth is. the commission is currently drawing up a proposal for the multi-annual financial framework, which will be followed by specific proposals on the structural funds. to my mind, the structural funds need to be brought into line with the europe 2020 strategy. this applies to the policy areas for which i am responsible in general – employment and social inclusion – and it certainly applies to the socio-economic integration of roma. making our financial instruments more effective is a key objective for me. let me stop at this point, so i can listen to your views and answer any questions.
president-in-office of the council. − the hungarian presidency welcomes the commission communication on the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. i would like to express my gratitude and appreciation not only for the work done, but also for the personal dedication of commissioner reding, commissioner andor and all those who have cooperated on this truly significant achievement. with the presentation of this strategic document, we have moved a giant step closer to the realisation of one of the chief priorities of the hungarian presidency. i am convinced that it will prove to be an important contribution to the improvement of the economic and social situation of the roma in europe, together with the recently adopted resolution of the european parliament on an eu strategy for roma inclusion based on the report by lívia járóka. extreme poverty, discrimination and marginalisation continue to affect large numbers of roma throughout europe, so it is high time for improvement. we cannot afford to say that it is their problem, and not ours. moreover, people must never be considered as a problem, but rather as a chance, an opportunity. given the current economic and demographic situation in europe, the improvement of the economic and social status of the roma can open up new human resources, thus contributing to economic growth in the long run. the hungarian presidency has always believed that, besides the necessary fight against discrimination, a new policy mix is necessary, with three key elements: employment, education and housing. if followed up properly by the member states, integrated policy action in these three fields, complemented by adequate monitoring as proposed by the commission, will make a difference. the member states will also have to make an effort to reach the goals of the eu 2020 strategy. measures for the social inclusion of the roma can be mainstreamed in various policy fields. it is now widely recognised that measures inspired and coordinated at eu level can create synergy and added value. what is next? the hungarian presidency intends to present and discuss the communication with the two commissioners during the next roma platform on 7 april in budapest, to which i invite all who are interested. the council will deal with it in a horizontal manner. firstly, the april justice and home affairs council will discuss it on 12 april. then it will be the turn of the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council on 9 may, with the adoption of council conclusions. the education council will also receive the document, on 20 may, before the hungarian presidency presents its report on the results of the discussions to the general affairs council on 23 may. the final moment of this itinerary will, hopefully, be an endorsement in the june european council. it will, of course, just be a new beginning for coordinated action at eu and national level for helping this truly european minority.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, distinguished officers and secretary of state. based on the report from livia the traveler, we are pleased to be moving forward with the implementation of the roma strategy. speaking of which, april 8th is international roma day. the fifth meeting of the european roma platform is being held in hungary on this day. this is another important step towards a joint action plan coordinated at eu level but able to take account of local specificities. the european people's party has been calling for community action on roma inclusion for many years. and at the summit of heads of state or government on 24 june, we hope that the european roma strategy can really get under way. they can thus provide a european-level response to the union's most pressing human rights problem. it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to ensure that their citizens enjoy fundamental human rights. the union can only provide a framework for this, but the individual countries can add content to this framework. the european roma strategy can be a kind of professional minimum. but i am convinced that this is a long-term plan of action across parties and cycles that can effectively address the poverty and social exclusion of the roma. some important points about the content of the strategy: it defines its target group on an economic rather than ethnic basis, promotes the full range of human rights and reinforces the principle of equal opportunities, takes into account the territorial nature of exclusion and mitigates disadvantages concentrated in underdeveloped micro-regions. the success of the strategy requires a long-term, strong, joint effort by the relevant union institutions, member states, ngos and roma communities. that's why this case should not be used to create controversy, to attack party politics. there's no room for group stigma either. neither the collective guilt of the roma nor the collective responsibility of the majority, the oppressors, should be set against each other. the solution to the roma issue is a priority for the hungarian eu presidency. i hope that the european council will adopt the strategy in june. i ask the european parliament to support me in this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, eu leaders are living in a bubble of illusion and self-delusion. the best example of that happened this morning. leaders of eu institutions were saying that the financial crisis is largely behind us. nothing could be further from the truth. as wolfgang münchau wrote yesterday in the financial times, europe is facing a stark choice between default and bailout. both imply the absorption of a huge loss. the only difference between the two is how the loss gets distributed. in the case of a default, german, french, british, italian and spanish banks will suffer and the taxpayers of those countries will share the cost with greek, irish and portuguese taxpayers. in the case of a bailout, the total burden will be put on the back of greek, irish and – soon – portuguese citizens. it is in this context that i say that the proposal to increase the budget of the parliament by 2.3% is still too high and unacceptable. let us go back to the drawing board and reduce it to 1%, as suggested by commissioner janusz lewandowski. to show an increase well below inflation would earn some badly needed legitimacy for parliament in the eyes of european citizens. not only the increase, but also the structure can be modified. there are many ways to save money for the european taxpayer. as helga trüpel has already said, we do not need to travel business class within the european union. an amendment jointly tabled by the greens, the united left and the ecr proposes to reduce travel costs significantly by using flexible economy class tickets for flights under four hours in length. we do not need a shiny, glitzy fleet of black mercedes-benz cars here in strasbourg. use the tram. we do not need the house of european history, as europe is losing competitiveness and geopolitical weight. it will be a museum anyway. there is huge scope for savings on energy costs. our offices have no temperature control or individually adjustable heating and air conditioning. we waste a tremendous amount of energy every year. there is large scope for savings on security and it services. in both cases, we need far better service for much less money. we should review and revise our health insurance costs as well. there is no need to have access to such an extraordinarily generous range of health care services. budgeting is about setting priorities, both positive and negative. there is no shortage of positive ones, but responsible and prudent budgeting requires both, especially in times of crisis.
thank you for your time, madam president. my fellow members of parliament! i'd like to focus on political fraud, political corruption, in the time i have. i am very sorry that we are only dealing with this report now that three members of the european parliament have been caught with serious suspicions of corruption. it is also wrong to think that here in the european parliament, the compromised members represent only the tip of the iceberg. because according to some estimates, about 50% of the eu's procurement, the public procurement that you've been talking about a lot here, is stolen, misappropriated, lost in corruption, and goes into the pockets of certain politicians. so this is intolerable! and the financial aspect of that is secondary, because society turns away from politics. and if people turn their backs on politics, then there's a sense of resignation that can't stop schools from closing, food prices from rising, jobs from closing. that is why the european parliament must set an example and we must abandon the privileged nature of the immunity law, and jobbik proposes that the penal clauses apply to politicians twice. thank you very much for your attention.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and i consider the work of parliament, the court of auditors and the national audit bodies of the member states to be very important. it's very, very important that we do our work in a transparent way and as flawlessly as possible. of course, the most important aspect of parliament's credibility is that we all have integrity. parliament is also certain that it must introduce rules for itself that are better and more effective than the present ones. at the same time, i would like to stress that it is very important to separate irregularity from fraud, because irregularity is not the same as fraud. cheats must be punished. in the case of irregularity, a different method shall be used. it is necessary to ensure that all spending bodies in each member state have a thorough knowledge of the rules in order to avoid as many errors as possible. it is no coincidence that in the new member states, where the debate has just begun, where the use of money has just begun, inexperience is one of the factors that plays a part.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the report before us is one that can be basically agreed with. the question is, how much can we actually fill it with content? because the free movement of people, the free movement of capital, these are basically beautiful words, but what have hungarian people seen so far? they saw that western capital could come into eastern europe, but only people could come from eastern europe to the west, so people could flow freely. how unthinkable would it be for hungarian or czech or polish entrepreneurs to buy up, say, the german volkswagen company and then close it down in order to create a market for themselves? now german, french and english entrepreneurs have done this to hungary, when they abolished the sugar industry, the food industry, the canning industry, the textile industry in hungary. in fact, back in 2004, they campaigned to join the european union so that hungarian entrepreneurs could open a confectionery shop in vienna. it's not that hungarian entrepreneurs can't open a confectionery shop in vienna, it's that they can't open a confectionery shop in a small village. so we have to rebuild the food industry, the textile industry, the canning industry in eastern europe, so that we can be equal members of the european union, and respected members.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the internal market is governed by a number of factors which are equally important. the problem is the lack of a comprehensive platform at eu level, but it also creates an opportunity for growth. these shortcomings were acknowledged and well delimited in the three reports. however, simply naming them will not encourage the interested parties. i have tabled a number of amendments to the draft report, one of which concerns the resolution of certain outstanding issues relating to the free movement of workers. moreover, the single market should be equally beneficial for all undertakings. i am thinking particularly of smes. the union's more intensive economic growth can only be achieved by overcoming the obstacles of the internal market. so a large, integrated market can itself be the engine of innovation in the future. i congratulate the rapporteurs, i thank the commissioner for his work and i congratulate the hungarian presidency. thank you, mr. president
in writing. the single market is the main engine of development in the european union, which creates a framework for social inclusion, job creation and competitiveness. proposals to complete the single market - whether they are about removing administrative barriers for small businesses or encouraging e-commerce - should benefit citizens. the implementation of the strategy must not lead to a reduction in social rights and a reduction in welfare gains. there are still too many obstacles to the exercise of workers', buyers' and consumers' rights without internal borders. the implementation of the free movement directive is not complete, although it is particularly important to increase the number of people working and to manage the european workforce better in order to recover from the crisis. the smooth functioning of the internal market is supported by the implementation of the joint european action against corruption and organised crime and the stockholm programme for an area of freedom, security and justice. we need to take steps to achieve recognition of professional qualifications within the eu, portability of pension rights, access to basic banking services. we also have further work to do in ensuring the free flow of services and respect for the rights of posted workers.'
mr president, the officer! you guys! nuclear safety is a human face! the design, construction, operation, inspection, closure and regulation of a power plant are all human activities. so the most important element of security is knowledge, the maximum use of human activity. maintaining and applying this knowledge is essential both when operating power plants and long after power plants are shut down. i agree to do the stress test, and i agree to incorporate the experience into the nuclear safety directive. i agree with the idea of cross-border checks, if for no other reason than to reassure the public. i agree that we should do our utmost to contribute to international organisations with the best of our knowledge. i particularly agree that we should do r&amp;d to get rid of the nuclear waste of the last 60 years. and one thing i particularly agree with is that whatever we decide on energy, we must insist that 500 million europeans have access to electricity. thank you for listening.
in writing. the japanese experience is expected to lead to a number of countries rethinking their nuclear energy strategies. germany has already taken concrete steps to shut down all nuclear power plants built before 1980 for three months. if, as a result of the events in japan, several member states across europe are also rethinking their nuclear energy strategy, this could have a significant impact on european energy markets, as nuclear power plants will have to be replaced by other sources of electricity. i believe that in the current situation, sudden action can have the same harmful consequences as a potential disaster. instead, a deliberate accounting of the effects of each scenario is the most useful. this is the only way to avoid the consequences of the aforementioned measures in germany, which are to increase electricity prices and to avoid the security of supply challenges faced by member states which normally export prices. europe needs to think carefully about the impact of a rethinking of its nuclear strategy on the energy market. it is also not clear which technologies could be suitable to replace nuclear power plant capacity. the impact of a change in strategy on gas markets, security of gas supply and the eu's co2 reduction targets is also an important issue. finally, i would like to welcome the european commission's swift reaction and announcement that european nuclear power plants will be subject to stress tests. the most important question is what further measures europe is planning to take to ensure the safety of nuclear energy production.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the country report of last february already praised macedonia's achievements in relation to european integration. the european parliament's resolution on this matter reiterated its call for the closure of the nomination debate and the immediate opening of accession negotiations. i find it unacceptable, and even scandalous, that no substantial progress has been made in this area in the past year. the union's own credit is therefore affected. the union and the hungarian presidency of the eu are also considering the accession of the balkan countries, including croatia and the republic of macedonia, as a priority. i call on the parliament, the council and the commission to support the early opening of accession negotiations with macedonia, whatever the name of the country.
i agree with those who agree to mutual responsibility. the european union and the european council are both responsible for the delay in the accession negotiations, depriving us of one of the most important instruments for stabilising the region, but the macedonian leadership is also responsible because it believes that if accession negotiations do not start, it will not have to pursue the reforms that secretary of state győri and commissioner füle have spoken about. and as for the name, i have to say, as a central european, as a hungarian, that i find this argument between greece and macedonia extremely absurd. i find the rigidity of both sides unacceptable. i don't know what the european union would have said if hungary had opposed romania's accession in 2007. for a moment, this danger has not been reversed in hungary, so i ask both sides to exercise reasonable restraint.
in writing. the crisis in the arab world has shown that the direction of neighbourhood policy has failed. financial instruments should be made more transparent and the disbursement of grants should be based on a performance-based approach. this is also true of the eastern dimension of politics. the future european neighbourhood policy must be based on people-to-people, cross-border links, especially in the eastern dimension, as the countries concerned by the eastern partnership also have the prospect of membership. the issue of mutual visa exemption between ukraine and the eu should be dealt with pragmatically and not used as a political pressure point. the ukrainian government has a lot of work to do in the field of human rights and democracy. and the least we should be punishing is the ukrainian people. if the european council supports belarusian citizens in addition to the sanctions imposed on belarus, it should not apply a special measure to ukraine either! the early granting of visa-free travel, which will hopefully take place later this year, can also provide the economic confidence needed to establish a free trade area. i trust that the polish presidency will make this a priority. it is regrettable that the eastern partnership summit could no longer take place under the hungarian presidency. hungary could have treated its partners in the eu's eastern neighbourhood much more objectively than the poles, who, due to their historical experience, have pursued a biased policy in many relations in recent years.
in writing. the main objective is to increase the transparency of the eib's activities for the ep and to make better use of the financial instruments it provides. we recommend that consideration be given to the proposal to extend prudential supervision to the eib in order to accurately measure the quality and performance of its financial position and to ensure compliance with the rules of efficient and effective business practice. i would like to make it clear that we are not proposing this because we have doubts about the regularity of the eib's activities, but because we generally consider that, as the g20 london declaration made clear two years ago, regulation and supervision should be extended to all systemically important financial institutions, to the asset market. recommend that the european commission be invited to carry out a legal analysis of the possibilities for prudential supervision of the eib for the ep by 30 november 2011. under the current rules, no european institution has the right to supervise the eib. this should be changed urgently, also because of the increased role of the bank and the community guarantee provided to it. the enhanced professional and social controls should be developed in line with the recent practice in other nfis. the eib's lending activities should in future be more selective, efficient and results-oriented, in particular in the area of sme financing. to this end, information on disbursed loans should also be collected and published in a more systematic manner.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the eib's annual report is being appreciated by the european parliament, albeit from a rather bird's-eye view. the eib is playing a crucial role in overcoming the crisis, but the question of transparency, of measurable results, remains a question of doubt for me. the eib focused its activities on the three areas most affected by the crisis, smes, convergence regions and climate action. smes play a key role in boosting the european economy and fighting unemployment, and it is therefore appropriate to facilitate their access to development capital. in this respect, it would be useful to have an annual assessment of the availability and effectiveness of these loans, which would ensure transparency of the ultimate purpose of the loans and improve the administration process. in this context, i also consider it essential that the eib updates and strengthens its policy on offshore financial centres. the eib plays a very important role in enhancing convergence in the european union, and its technical assistance and co-financing enable regions eligible for the convergence objectives to make use of an increasing proportion of the resources at their disposal, so i consider it appropriate and desirable to further enhance this role. finally, i suggest that consideration be given to the proposal that transparent regulatory oversight should be introduced to ensure the quality of the eib's financial position, the accurate measurement of its results and the observance of the rules of efficient and effective business practice.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, it was right for those political analysts, politicians -- including henry kissinger -- who predicted decades ago that india would take the lead in the new world order, along with the united states, the european union, russia and china. for this, of course, we congratulate the people of india, the people of india, but we must not forget the violations, including child labour, that have led to this development, and the european union must send a clear message to india that human rights violations and child labour cannot continue in the future. this is not in keeping with the ideals of the european union. we do not see the free trade agreement as ensuring that the european economy, european production, enjoys the necessary independence. we therefore propose that the free trade agreement should include safeguards guaranteeing the independence of european family businesses, small farmers and producers, which will help europe to emerge from the economic crisis in which we are now.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. on europe day, i would like to speak about the idea of community. the economic governance package is a new chapter in the life of the union. the new economic governance regime, if implemented and enforced, could lead to responsible economic policies in the eu member states. but this is only one condition for europe's stability. the recent democratic reorganisation in several member states is a worrying phenomenon. governments in some member states are breaking the rule of law that was once considered inviolable, restricting the freedom of the press, which is essential for the establishment of a genuine democracy. the european commission and the council should be open in their action against democratic backsliding, which will lead to serious problems in the future if the commission and the council do not act against the democratic deficit in the union. thank you for your attention.
if we want to achieve results in the roma strategy, we must improve education, employment, health, housing and fight anti-gypsyism, hate speech and discrimination against roma. neither can be effective if the other is ignored. the commission's roma strategy focuses on one aspect only, the social dimension, and places the responsibility primarily on the member states. unfortunately, there is little mention of the need to act against anti-gypsyism, the human rights dimension of the issue. the commission did not speak when paramilitary groups in hungary kept roma in gyöngyöspatán in fear for weeks, and the hungarian government only acted when the tension, the provocation, turned violent. it is feared that if europe does not take a greater role in improving the situation of roma than the commission's communication suggests, similar situations will be repeated. it's not too late to change. we'd like to hear from officer viviane reding on these cases.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the president has informed us, mr rivellini is the rapporteur for the seven motions on our table. our colleague has worked extremely hard and productively over the past six months, but unfortunately he is not here today and i have the honour of taking his place in today's debate. as i said, the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution, mr rivellini, is a very good one. if i may, i would like to mention the main eu institutions whose work on the proposals for the discharge of the institutions is linked to mr rivellini. the discharge for the european council, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european court of justice, the european court of auditors, the ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor and for the management of their respective offices was drawn up by mr rivellini. i would like to thank mr rivellini personally and to thank in particular the european court of auditors, whose work has been essential in the preparation of the proposals on our table. i would also like to thank the members of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and their colleagues for the work that has led to today's results. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i would like to speak about two reports in particular. on the one hand, the discharge of the european council and, on the other hand, the discharge report of the european economic and social committee. the issue of the european council's discharge is always a complex one, as the two institutions, the european parliament and the european council, debate the discharge procedure from year to year. let me be clear and unambiguous. the european parliament has a firm and clear position that it has the same right and authority to grant or refuse discharge to the european council as it has to any other union institution. mr rivellini proposes to postpone the granting of the european council's discharge in order to allow for further consultations between the european council and the european parliament on dispute matters concerning the discharge procedure. we followed a similar procedure last year and the year before that. the competent committee of parliament requested a deferral of the council's discharge and the discharge was granted at a later date. this year, although the proposal is similar to the previous one to postpone the discharge , we have made clear progress on the european council discharge procedure, and for that reason i thank and congratulate the hungarian presidency of the european council. as point 8 of the report on the european council's discharge states, the progress mentioned above is due to the positive attitude and efforts of the hungarian presidency. i congratulate the members of the bureau. year after year we see this progress, but it is nowhere near the level that we would like. we welcome the council's recognition that the discharge and the budgetary procedure are two separate processes and should be treated independently. it is also welcome that representatives of the council are present and involved in this exchange of views during the debate on the present proposal for a discharge. unfortunately, the invitation to the committee was not accepted by the european council this year either. they did not participate in the committee discussion of the discharge procedure, nor did they grant access to important documents which would have been essential for granting the discharge, nor did the european council reply to questions put by the parliament's committee. these are the problems that we need to get over. i am confident that, after the postponement of the discharge, there will be a way and an opportunity to reach a final agreement on the issues of the council's discharge procedure between the competent committee of the european parliament, the european parliament and the european council, with a view to many years ahead. finally, i should like to refer to the proposal for a discharge by the european economic and social committee. the problems encountered in the management of the commission are not of such a serious nature as to justify a delay in granting the exemption, and we therefore support granting the exemption. moreover, the management problems identified in the committee's work are not linked to the year following the year of the exemption. my fellow members of the house of representatives! as mr rivellini's deputy, i can therefore say that we shall propose to parliament the resolution contained in the motion for a resolution on the seven motions for resolutions.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. − as the rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to call on the committee on budgetary control to make some suggestions and ask it to include them in its report. we acknowledge the commission's efforts to improve financial management, but we regret that, despite the financial crisis, member states are not calling up the european social fund in full. this percentage decreased from 54% in 2007 to 36%. we think we need to make a little more effort here. we would also urge increased efforts to reduce the frequency of reimbursement of ineligible costs and call on the commission to speed up the decision-making processes on financial corrections. the european social fund is very welcome to have focused on the employment strategy, but at the same time, as i said, they have not used all the resources available to them. so here we need to make a further effort. there have been some minor problems with the agencies, and i don't have time to go into that, but on the whole, we have to say that their management is acceptable and supportive.
the rapporteur. - my fellow members of the house. allow me to thank all of you who have contributed valuable contributions to this debate. as i have indicated as rapporteur, and more specifically as rapporteur for mr rivellini, there are seven exemption motions on the table of the european parliament. these seven exemption proposals concern seven very important eu institutions. in his submission, mr rivellini proposes that the european parliament should grant discharge to the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, as well as to the offices of those institutions. today's debate has also confirmed that there is a consensus in the european parliament on this. one of mr. rivellini's presentations is about the discharge of the european council. in this respect, there is also a consensus among the members of the european parliament, party families, to decide to postpone the discharge. i would like to welcome the remarks made by mr becsey, secretary of state, in today's debate in parliament. i consider important the steps which are linked to the work of the next hungarian presidency. if these steps continue, it will finally be possible, when parliament puts the question of the european council's discharge back on the agenda, perhaps this autumn, for the european parliament to give the european council its discharge by reaching an agreement between the european council and the european parliament on the procedure for the discharge of the european council many years in advance. with these thoughts in mind, i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to the fact that parliament has been able to take a decision on these seven motions today.
chairman of the committee, madam commissioner, madam minister! the schengen system is one of the union's most tangible achievements. when you ask european citizens, they will mention their freedom of movement without border controls as important to them in the european union. it is therefore essential that we preserve this system and do everything we can to preserve the freedom of movement of our citizens, the freedom of europe to be free of borders. that must remain our primary objective. our values, our achievements, need to be protected, especially when they are challenged. and the challenge today is the sudden arrival of immigration and refugees. but to address these challenges, we need concrete proposals and solutions. it starts with separating, clarifying what we're talking about, separating the refugee issue from illegal immigration, using our existing principles that we can build on, like solidarity, cooperation, using our existing institutions like frontex, or our existing rules. i welcome the hungarian position, the position of state secretary győri, and that mr barroso has also said: the schengen acquis must be strengthened, not withdrawn, it must be made to work well. other
, in writing. one of the most important challenges facing europe today is how to respond to the revolutions unfolding on its southern borders. the democratization of this region is a fundamental interest of the eu, and the union must find a response to the refugee wave that is emanating from this region that is in line with humanitarian principles and human rights. solidarity is needed between member states, but above all with the refugees coming to europe. we hungarians can really understand the importance of this, because after the 1956 revolution, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots were accepted in many countries of the world. the response to migration pressures is not to reintroduce internal border controls but to accelerate the negotiations already under way with a view to the adoption of the asylum package, the common european migration policy and the schengen evaluation system as soon as possible. the reintroduction of border controls, even if temporary, is one of the eu's symbolic achievements, putting an obstacle in the way of the free movement of citizens. this is an achievement which european citizens value highly and which is also one of the guarantees of the success of the common economic area. we must find solutions to the problems that arise together, and not give in to populist and extremist voices offering a seeming solution.
, in writing. – we always pride ourselves on being the most open among the european institutions. however, the recent past has demonstrated that, no matter the advantages this provides, the system has its drawbacks, too. we all know how european citizens have lost and keep losing their confidence in europe and, let us be honest, in us meps. an important way of regaining this trust is being open about what we do and what influences shape our work. the joint transparency register that we are to adopt today by voting yes to the two reports on the table is a great first step in this direction. it is a ‘first step’ as this will not solve all our problems. even if it would be difficult to do it now, in the future we shall move towards mandatory registration for lobbyists. i would also like to underline that such a register does not replace our individual efforts for transparency and the need for rethinking our work in this regard.
mr president, i would like to speak about one issue only. twenty-five years after chernobyl, there is a need to rebuild the sarcophagus, but we see how difficult it is to gather the financial resources: how difficult it is to get the financial resources from those european member states that are, at the same time, worrying very much about nuclear safety. we have to make sure that the long-term commitment is there for as long as the long-term risk of the nuclear facility in chernobyl remains. the public commitment needs to be not merely verbal, but also financial; and human resources are necessary too, to provide the skills required for the long term – for as long as chernobyl remains unresolved. we may not realise at this stage what is required in terms of member states’ financial resources, but until we understand the problem we will continue, for the most part, to pay mere lip service to tackling it.
mr. president, fellow members of the house of representatives, madam secretary of state. let me divide the issue of labelling textiles into two important issues. the first important point is that the labelling should indicate the origin and the country of origin of the textile product. the other important issue, of course, is that it should be indicated precisely, precisely, what material the textile product is made of. in both cases, of course, a uniform set of rules is good. well, if we look at the first question, which product comes from where, it's worth starting with the fact that the european union is in crisis, and that's largely because those industries that are related to production, like textiles, have been outsourced to various far eastern countries for easy, quick profit, and therefore the pace of production in the european union has slowed down. we have to find the breaking points for the european union that we can avoid, that we can help to avoid the crisis. the textile industry is one such sector, alongside agriculture, machinery manufacturing and tourism. in the textile sector, european producers are particularly disadvantaged, as far-eastern dumping and their low-priced and poor quality dumped products make it impossible for european producers to make progress. it should be displayed - and we would strongly support it - even in the european union, trusting in the wisdom of the consumer, helping their own economy so that everyone can see, whether a bulgarian, a czech, a hungarian or a german, to buy a product produced in their own country. we need to protect our markets with new technologies and to showcase the quality of materials, alongside rigorous laboratory testing of materials.
the interests of consumers must be given the highest priority when discussing the report. the aim is to ensure that the labels are accurate, since these are the measures that can demonstrate the european union's added value to consumers. the current legislation allows for a derogation. this is a competitive disadvantage for the european union, which means that it is time for a legislative review in line with current market conditions. perhaps the speaker is right that there is insufficient evidence of the possible effects of the hazardous substances used. perhaps he is wrong, and this is a question worth examining more closely. it is also important to assess whether there is a causal relationship between allergic reactions and synthetic fibres, dyes used in textiles. therefore, issues related to quality, origin and traceability should be given greater prominence.
the importance of this issue is shown by the fact that three members have put a similar question to the commission. this is no coincidence, as the credit of the european union could be damaged if, as in the past, we carry out a test which does not restore confidence in the european banking sector. the esrb and the eba's preparatory work for the test certainly appears to be thorough, both in terms of the uniform methodology and the way it is conducted. but for me, the commissioner's answer left some questions unanswered. such a question is whether the selection addresses cross-border business and ownership relationships, different business models. or, as the case may be, whether it can be said with complete certainty that the test series does not ignore any bank whose operations could pose a threat to the european economy.
, in writing. interestingly, even last year, after the stress test failed, the press was flooded with false success stories the european commission was clearly involved. today, not only we, but the liberals and the epp are demanding an explanation for the failure. it is another question whether they are looking for solutions in false answers, for example in the form of new state capital injections to the banks or in further centralisation in brussels. but the real reason for the failure is that the brussels waterfront simply cannot help us effectively in most areas of our lives. so instead of wanting to get new national driving licences after the fiasco, or waste billions of euros on new mammoth authorities, they should recognise that europe cannot exist as a united states of europe and that the more power they put in the hands of brussels, the less effective it will be.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the apparently strict eu legislation on hazardous waste contains many loopholes in practice, which are well exploited by organised crime groups, such as the hazardous waste mafia. today, one of the most lucrative businesses is the illegal disposal of toxic, hazardous wastes. one reason is the outrageously high cost of legal disposal and recycling, and the other is the overbureaucratic nature of obtaining legal permits. the solution must be two-pronged: reduce the administrative burden on businesses that recover and dispose of hazardous waste legally, and, of course, encourage hazardous waste producers to take the legal route, and make them interested in curbing the hazardous waste mafia. on the other hand, the penal sanctions for environmental crime must be radically tightened up and controls uniformly increased at eu level.
the lisbon treaty, with its overly complex reforms, makes it difficult to set up institutions and define responsibilities. the many changes that have taken place have left existing institutions unable to function properly, and chaos has spread everywhere, confusing everyone. the question arises as to what is the point in creating and empowering a european external action service which has not yet started its work. defense, security is an area all over the world that requires rapid response, action. the european union is losing the opportunity to act in this area in a meaningful way by debating complex issues, places and positions. if it has been established, it must be operational and effective. therefore, every effort should be made to start the ministry as soon as possible. unfortunately, in the field of external relations, the country holding the rotating presidency cannot put forward a programme on foreign affairs, common defence or security, so, ladies and gentlemen, you have no choice but to support mrs ashton's extremely difficult work.
, in writing. – in 2010 i submitted a written question to commissioner malmström to see what action the commission had taken to uncover the role of non-governmental organisations in financing terrorism. the fact that the organisers of last year’s flotilla are planning to repeat their action on the anniversary of the incident and meps from the gue and greens/efa political groups organised a hearing at the ep on 10 may put the issue yet again in the spotlight. if we europeans consider peace, democratisation in the middle east, the eradication of extreme poverty and the development of living conditions in gaza as our ultimate goal, the appropriate means for the facilitation of this noble cause is not the flotilla, as vp/hr ashton pointed out earlier today. we cannot refer to something as humanitarian action that is not necessarily what it seems. judge bruguière, the respected and recognized counter-terrorism expert proved that the organiser of the flotilla, ihh, had maintained contact with al-qaeda. the umbrella organisation of ihh, union of good, supports the activity of extremist radicals through selling weapons to them. i ask fellow meps to refrain from exploiting the middle east crisis for their own political goals, which do not have anything to do with the peace process and from a biased attitude which very much sounds like the language and mechanism of the communist and soviet attitude towards israel.
author. - mr. president, commissioner, excuse me, i looked up at the board for a moment, because i have the good fortune to have a group of visitors from hungary here. the small business package has recently become part of european thinking. based on the practical experience of the last two years, it is time to review, update and strengthen the small business package. we, the authors of the question, have summarised the most important points in the motion for a resolution in 34 points. i'd like to highlight a few of them. it's all about execution. member states have worked with varying degrees of efficiency and commitment and, as a result, have been effective. we want a unified database and scoreboard to measure success and overreach. officer, please! we believe that the objective is not to violate the rights of workers, but to create new jobs. reducing administration is not the same as curtailing workers' rights, but rather creating opportunities for micro and small enterprises to work together. in the case of access to financial resources, it is very important that the resources available at eu level are used even more successfully. so far, we've achieved an efficiency of 75%, and about 50,000 smes have been funded. at the same time, the competitiveness programme, cip, has been successful in providing funding to around 300 000 smes. we must certainly confirm this, we must preserve it. it is very important that the network of institutions help small and medium-sized enterprises. the european enterprise network should therefore be strengthened. we'd really like to find a way to continue the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs. we want to ensure that each of the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises can still provide at least one job. this could make a significant contribution to improving the labour market situation. however, it is very important that the workforce working for smes is better qualified than the main ones. it is particularly important that they are able to participate in the implementation of the green economy programme and acquire digital skills. the most important thing for us is that young people, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, see entrepreneurship as a win-win rather than a loser.
i agree with the review finding that further measures are necessary. i think it is important that the union has a better overview of how the member state governments are implementing the package of measures. the mid-term evaluation is also important because smes' problems seem to be becoming more and more persistent, including difficulties in obtaining funding, administrative burdens, over-regulation and market access. i also welcome the idea of allowing small businesses to register as european private companies, which would also reduce the administrative burden. at the same time, the implementation of smart regulation is a highly timely issue. it is of particular importance to spread the 'once-only' principle across europe and to examine whether the regulatory framework in a policy area is appropriate and, if not, what needs to be changed.
mr president, currently we are celebrating the first anniversary of the greek bail-out, but there is nothing to celebrate. one year later we are back at square one. instead of lengthening the pain and piling even more burdens on the greek economy, it would be far better to accept the inevitable and the judgment of the markets. there is no way to avoid default. an orderly default has at least five advantages. it would share the loss more fairly between greek taxpayers and external creditors; stop the replacement of private debt by an ever-growing proportion of official debt coming from other countries; offer greece more growth opportunities by alleviating debt service; make it much easier for mrs merkel to ‘sell’ the default to the bundestag, because it would mean supporting german banks rather than greece; and, finally, isolate the debt crisis from the competitiveness crisis and save the euro zone from contagion. do it! do not throw good money after bad.
, in writing. innovation is the successful practical implementation of ideas. we must not let the innovation union remain just an exciting idea, a political goal. we are working in the committee on budgets to integrate the flagship of eu 2020 into the eu strategy with a separate financial framework. the innovation union can play a role in reshaping europe's crisis-hit economy, guided by sustainable job creation. if 3% of eu gdp were indeed earmarked for research and development by 2020, 3.7 million new jobs would be created, increasing annual gdp by approximately €800 million by 2025. we must accept that research and innovation are the key to economic recovery in the union and the only effective means of doing so. we must therefore unanimously support the member states' commitment to spend 1% of their gnp on research and technological development. the willingness to take risks is a prerequisite for successful innovation, but it does not mean risky investment for member states at this time. the return is guaranteed. to maintain europe's competitiveness, we need a shift in thinking, driven by the need to improve europe's innovation potential and boost europe's entrepreneurial spirit. therefore, we have reviewed the small business act (sba) to align it with the single market act, which can also show synergies with the innovation union. we must harmonize our measures, because this will increase efficiency many times over.
on behalf of the ppe group. the european people's party is particularly pleased with this debate today, and i think we owe it to mrs berès to have taken the initiative, to have made it possible for us to join the ilo initiative, and to have us think about what we have to do with a section of workers whose circumstances we often do not know enough about, and if we do know something, it is rather disheartening. the draft resolution itself, which has been published, we also think it is worth supporting, and we particularly welcome the elements which underline and emphasise that the aim here is to create decent working conditions and regulated working conditions in a context where, indeed, in some countries, migrant workers are most often involved, in a totally unregulated, uncontrolled way, very often in the form of a modern form of slavery. we've talked about the fact that there are black holes in the labor law, and we talked about these atypical contracts. obviously, this could be a next step towards ensuring minimum working conditions, other rights associated with the employment relationship, and i agree with the commissioner, basically, of course, we will have to sweep around our own house. we can do the same by welcoming the ilo initiative and calling on the member states of the union to do everything in their labour law to identify and regulate this black spot.
it is crucial for an ageing europe that all young people can fulfil their talents, and that all can succeed in the labour market later on. this requires education that addresses the disparities of opportunity from early childhood, with particular attention to ensuring that the benefits of education, vocational training and employment are available to all young people, regardless of their financial situation, social and ethnic background, disability or any other health problem. the 2020 strategy aims to achieve a 40% tertiary level and to reduce school drop-out to 10%. to achieve this, all member states must move in this direction. and in some places, we're seeing the opposite trend now: lowering the age of enrolment, reducing the number of state-funded higher education places. europe's future sustainable growth and innovation can only be guaranteed if everyone contributes to it, if all countries move in the same direction.
, in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i think it's important that we have a debate on education and culture, and in addition to the many important aspects, i would like to make an approach that has been missing. the basic condition for the harmonious and prosperous coexistence of traditional national communities, minorities and majorities, is mutual knowledge and respect. education plays a vital role in this. if minority history and literature were taught in majority schools in the same way that minority culture is taught in minority schools, it would bring communities closer together. language education also plays an important role in cultural learning. this is true not only in the study of world languages, but also in the relationship between minorities and majorities living together. i think that not only should minorities learn the language of the majority, but it should work the other way around. it would enrich everyone and express respect for one another. at the same time, knowing each other's languages would give the younger generations a much more positive attitude towards each other, and would make it easier for them to connect with their peers, which would be decisive for the future of these regions. thirdly, i think it is necessary to mention the importance of a thorough knowledge of cultural heritage in order to recognize and respect the cultural values of each other in communities living together. i see the incentive for all this as a concrete task for the commission and a strengthening of the principle of political support for parliament.
, in writing. my fellow members of the european parliament! i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr honeyball, on his excellent work in seeing the critical points that have perhaps received less attention in the past. among these, the link between poverty, disadvantage and poor school performance is particularly important. i would remind my colleagues that there is another link: the disadvantage is particularly acute where the child has a disability that is not understood or accepted by the parents who are not sufficiently informed. in my report i shall be paying particular attention to this problem, and the work of my colleague, mr honeyball, and in particular the application of the child-centred approach, will be a great reference point for the future. the draft report 'draws attention to the general importance of pre-school learning, with particular reference to language acquisition, and to multilingualism and linguistic diversity', which i am happy and enthusiastic to support. i myself believe that the early development of children with disabilities, the support of children in acquiring appropriate language competences, is a fundamental and never-returnable investment in human resources. equally important, in order to build the linguistic competence of deaf children, it is necessary to first teach them their mother tongue, sign language, so that they can become truly multilingual. and this is an investment to achieve the eu2020 goals of increasing employment levels in order to create a more accessible, inclusive and sustainable society.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! in our debate on the human rights situation in belarus, two questions came to my mind: the first is what would you think if you saw a member of the current lukashenko government back in the european parliament in a year or two, as vice-chairman of the libe committee, the committee on civil liberties, human rights and fundamental freedoms. and my second question is, when will we get to the point where, in these debates on thursday afternoons, on the agenda of countries outside the european union -- if we're constantly looking at the human rights situation in these countries -- i'll see, say, the united states or israel. i would like to say a few more things about both questions in the remaining minute: we had this question about the member of the lukashenko government. please, mr. lukashenko of hungary, member of the government of mr. ferenc gyurcsány, mr. göncz kinga is taking the chair of the libe committee and is instructing the representatives of italy, france and other democracies on human rights. what was this hungarian lukashenko, ferenc gyurcsány, famous for? the same things, to some extent a little bit harsher, that the report here lists in relation to lukashenko and belarus, belarus - you know, objections - and applying a much higher standard to lukashenko and belarus, a country outside the european union, than they were happy to apply to hungary and france. including the fact that the hungarian lukashenko has violently dispersed virtually every major anti-government demonstration, i myself have just received compensation and an apology from the police for having been shot in the face with tear gas at close range as a candidate for the european parliament. and the amazing thing is that there are still people in prison today, partly serving their sentences, partly in pretrial detention, who were leading figures in the anti-government protests. the second question is: the united states. just as there is a death penalty in the united states, and if you think about guantanamo, there is the same torture that you object to in relation to belarus. you wouldn't want to lay your hands on belarusian state property, would you? isn't that why they've chosen this country arbitrarily, especially considering that they threaten to impose sanctions on state property, state-owned enterprises?
mr president, i wonder whether ms lunacek heard me while i was saying that ms göncz was a member of the hungarian lukashenko’s government – mr gyurcsány’s government. please answer the question, ms lunacek. what do you know about the massive human rights violations that were committed in hungary in 2006? please summarise it. they were no less serious and no fewer in number than those of lukashenko, and as a human rights lawyer i strongly condemn both – your comrades shooting at people’s eyes and arbitrary detentions, as well as lukashenko’s violations of human rights. both are intolerable and you, as members of parliament, should fight against both.
my colleague mr le joinen has produced an excellent report which is important from a national, environmental, social, agricultural and other point of view. as the project manager of the stoa panel, which aims to improve the management of natural resources, i consider it extremely important to have a reliable statistical database. how can we measure the evolution of energy efficiency, water efficiency in the member states of the european union if we don't have reliable statistics? and as a member of the committee on agriculture, i think it is very important in the reform of the cap that we finally know what the real social benefits are of the environmental public goods produced by farmers. without statistics, we cannot know how farmers contribute to the protection of the air, the cropland, the land and the environment through their agricultural activities, and how they produce environmental public goods which are not yet paid for by the market or the common agricultural policy. this statistical report is therefore highly progressive and forward-looking from an environmental and agricultural point of view.
in writing. the seventh framework programme for research is the world's largest research funding instrument, playing a key role in maintaining europe's competitiveness and delivering on the europe 2020 strategy. the union framework programme represents a significant added value in the field of european research and development. however, the mid-term review also highlighted several areas for improvement. in my view, two aspects are critical to the future success of the framework programme. first and foremost, i would like to emphasize the need to simplify administration. the excessive administrative complexity is costly and makes it difficult for smes to participate in the research framework programme. the elimination of parallel structures, the faster mobilisation of funding and the alignment with national priorities will help to attract as many actors as possible to r & d activities. as a second point, i would like to remind you of the importance of the 'excellence' approach. the most effective way to use the financial resources of the framework programme is to select research projects for funding on the basis of excellence. however, the mid-term review revealed that some countries were under-represented in terms of recovery. the main reason for this is that these member states do not have a research infrastructure that would allow them to meet the criteria of excellence. it is therefore necessary to examine the synergies between the framework programme and the structural and cohesion funds that could facilitate the development of lagging infrastructure. this is the way to ensure that all member states are treated equally in the case of a decision on the basis of excellence.
in writing. the recent food safety scandal in germany has once again drawn attention to the shortcomings of appropriate official controls. consumer confidence in the diligence of food producers and, not least, in the professionalism of the control authorities has been shaken again. in a well-functioning rule of law, the consumer has reason to trust that only food that can be put on his table, only food that can be given to his children, can be eaten safely. unfortunately, this is not the first time that trust has been shattered. it is enough to think only of the poisoned tomato scandal in hungary in may, but we could also mention the dioxin pork scandal in germany in january. all these sad events remind us again and again that the state must strengthen official controls and take the strictest possible action against any deficiency or abuse. in no way can citizens be expected to do this work for the state. we can't pretend to be food chemists and have food-testing labs in our homes. instead, the right solution is to punish offenders with the harshest sanctions, not even shying away from closing down commercial units.
madam secretary of state, madam commissioner, my fellow members of parliament. i am pleased that by voting on the coelho report tomorrow, the european parliament is sending a clear signal that it recognises the readiness of romania and bulgaria and supports the accession of these two countries to one of our most important community acquis, the schengen area. to what has meant so much to the countries of eastern and central europe for historical reasons: the possibility of free and unhindered travel. the main message from our debate today to the member states should be that romania and bulgaria fulfil the same accession conditions that the union has expected from the countries that have joined so far. it should be stressed that no more requirements can be imposed on romania and bulgaria than were imposed in the case of the previous schengen accession. member states should not apply the institution of double standards because it lays the foundation on which the schengen acquis is built: the institution of mutual trust. it is precisely the events of the past few months that have shown that europe's most important achievement needs to be defended and upheld. i would also stress that it is not even a coincidence that we should end up as a commodity link in this matter, that is to say, linking the accession of the two member states to schengen and the issue of the review of the schengen evaluation mechanism. the latter is very much needed, but it cannot be connected like this. finally, i would like to congratulate rapporteur coelho, whose constructive and consistent work has been of paramount importance in this case as well, and to thank the hungarian presidency for the concrete steps and commitment it has taken towards the early accession of the two member states to schengen.
in writing. the european commission has assessed that romania and bulgaria are ready to join schengen and that the council should therefore take a decision on the admission of these two member states without delay. we cannot apply double standards, because that would undermine the credibility of the european union, and we cannot introduce new conditions. schengen, the abolition of borders, is the step that citizens value most in the achievements of the european union, which, alongside the euro, is also the symbol of the european union. freedom of movement is also one of the keys to the success of the common market. the need to safeguard the external borders of the union is real, but achieving this does not mean keeping ready-made entrants out, but rather introducing a continuous, transparent schengen evaluation system, which, together with a single european migration policy and a refugee policy based on internal solidarity, provides a solution to many open questions. i therefore ask the council to move forward as quickly as possible in these areas.
this cycle has perhaps the most important meaning in our hands. the european parliament is the first institution to formulate its views on the next seven years, but this does not infringe the commission's right to propose, but it is the only way to avoid our right of unanimity turning into a scandal that would eventually force us to reject the council's proposal. this way, each of our partners knows what the european parliament wants and can incorporate it into their own thinking wherever possible. i would recommend to my colleagues that they read the treaty of lisbon and the report before they turn their thoughts to harsh criticism. the commitment to own resources is no more and no less than what the lisbon treaty requires. i think it is very important to send the message that the european budget should be slightly increased. i'm saying that's a little bit, because that 5% is going to be inflationary, so it's not going to be abnormal growth. it is not that we want to increase agricultural and cohesion spending, but that we should not reduce it. in the 1600s, miklós zrínyi, a croat-hungarian of common identity, said to the turks, "do not harm the hungarian!" i am quoting him: do not harm the agricultural policy, do not harm the cohesion policy, because whoever harms these does not harm only the hungarian, the romanian, the slovak, but the citizens of all european nations. the smaller the voter base behind a politician, the more he appeals to the citizens. i think that we, who have a larger political force behind us, also represent the interests of the citizens and therefore say: do not harm the agricultural policy and cohesion!
mr. president, i have to go. the crisis forces us to review both national and eu budgets in terms of how effective they are, how well they serve our objectives, and above all, how much added value they bring, european added value. i would like to speak about an area which has not yet been discussed, and that is the one which the treaty of lisbon actually introduces into community policies on the area of the competences of the member states, on internal and judicial cooperation. this should also be reflected in the next budget period, where we want to make real progress. we must ensure that the stockholm programme is funded, it is a very ambitious programme. europe needs well-educated, well-regulated immigrants, a common migration policy with adequate resources. the events in north africa have re-emphasised the importance of a common european refugee policy and the need for resourced integration and european solidarity. the last few months have also brought home to us that the defence of our common values, the issue of non-discrimination, the issue of human rights also need protection and resources, that we need to simplify the use of resources for emergency management and that all of this needs to be done with our own resources in order to have a better, stronger and more europe in the period ahead.
in writing. the draft report, supported by eight committees, takes as its starting point the challenges to be addressed by the new multiannual financial framework. the current crisis is a final warning to europe to respond to the changing world order. as with all transformations, the emerging order will produce new winners and losers. europe has no place among the losers! jean monnet once said that 'europe never existed, we must create it'. this task was not seen by the father of european integration as a one-off event, but as a continuous process. the european union must therefore be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not reduced to the status of a loser, by taking account of the specific circumstances and the conditions that are likely to arise. last year, the commission presented the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to overcome the crisis and prepare europe's economy for the next decade. the three key areas for economic growth are 'smart growth' focusing on knowledge, innovation, education and the digital society, 'sustainable growth' promoting more efficient use of resources and enhancing competitiveness, and 'inclusive growth' enhancing labour market participation. the new multiannual financial framework of the union should be defined at community level and the individual national development programmes should be aligned in order to achieve the best possible implementation of the 2020 strategy, creating the necessary synergies.
in writing. when designing the next budgetary framework, the first question we should ask is: do we want more or less europe? i believe that parliament has already taken a position on this matter. we have already said once, with the adoption of the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy, that we do need more europe. we must now say loud and clear that these objectives can only be achieved if we allocate the budget to meet them. at a time when several eu member states are suffering from the 'mediterranean dilemma', that is, needing fiscal expansion to kick-start their economic growth but not being able to do so because of debt problems that force them into indefinite austerity, our response cannot be to reduce or leave the eu's budget, which is essentially for development, in place. we cannot do that, because that would deprive the regions in decline of their only chance of getting their economies back on track.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report which draws attention to the necessity of broadening the system of vocational training in the eu since equal access to quality lifelong learning means better chances in the labour market and thereby contributes to fulfilment of the goals of the eu’s 2020 strategy. special emphasis must be put on preventing youth unemployment, for which it is necessary to harmonise training supply with labour-market demand, provide middle-term national and regional forecasts on expected labour-demand and enable national education systems to be more effective in guaranteeing the attainment of those skills that are actively sought on the labour market. according to cedefop we can expect a 12 million decline in jobs available for low skilled or unskilled labour, which presages an increasing risk of poverty for the most vulnerable. in many cases, even those who finish school are unable to enter the labour market and therefore are more likely to engage themselves in casual work or work in the black economy. consequently, they are unable to start a life on their own and often become an unbearable burden on households, creating a vicious circle of unsatisfactory education and joblessness.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i don't mean to be rude, but i'm going to speak to the left wing of the house. to the green, communist, socialist and liberal majority who, despite the people's party and the conservative factions, have forced this issue onto the agenda of parliament today. i have some questions for you. do you think it is consistent with the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of birth that the union can have countries such as spain, belgium or sweden where certain citizens are entitled to a senior public office, say the throne, by virtue of their birth? the new constitution of my country makes no such distinction. do you think it is acceptable that there is a member of the union, the united kingdom, that does not have a uniform written constitution? my country's new constitution is a democratic, written constitution. do you think it is acceptable that there is a member state of the union, france, whose constitution does not contain a catalogue of fundamental rights? the new constitution of my country not only contains, but even considers the european charter of fundamental rights as a model, the first in the european union. do you think it is right that there are member states of the union without a constitutional court, or that there are several countries with a constitutional court but with weak courts? the new constitution of my country is proud to guarantee strong constitutional protection. you claim to be acting in the spirit of a united europe when you bring the new hungarian constitution to the morgue. but in reality they betray one of the most important principles of the new treaty establishing the union, which i quote: article 4 (2): 'the union shall respect the national identity of the member states as an integral part of their political and constitutional order.' if you do not organize or do not organize a debate on the countries mentioned in my previous questions, or if you forget to speak here in the european parliament when the socialist government trampled the right of assembly in hungary in 2006, then you, ladies and gentlemen, are applying double standards. they refuse to see the speck in another's eye, the beam in their own. they do not realize that by doing so, you are not helping the cause of european cooperation, but are fueling discord among the nations of europe. it exposes your true partisan bias. i suggest that they follow the example of the new hungarian constitution in their countries. let's have a constitutional barrier to debt so there's not another greek, irish or portuguese crisis. i propose that, like the hungarian constitution, the rights of future generations be constitutionally protected by making environmental, fiscal and demographic sustainability constitutional principles. protect their nationalities and other minorities, such as the roma, with strong, collective rights, as the new hungarian constitution does in a way that is unique in europe! we have proved and disproved your claims on countless occasions, but you continue to repeat your baseless accusations, so i say again: the hungarian constitution does not prohibit abortion. the new hungarian constitution does not infringe on freedom of religion and conscience. the hungarian constitution does not restrict the rights of same-sex couples. the hungarian constitution has no territorial validity and provides unprecedentedly strong legal protection for nationalities in its own territory. the hungarian constitution does not reduce but rather strengthens the principle of separation of powers, checks and balances. the hungarian constitution is a constitution with a european spirit, which was born in the spirit of cooperation and unity of nations, fully guaranteeing the fundamental rights of man. our constitution refers to europe 18 times and we have included the union's motto 'unity in diversity'. ladies and gentlemen, we hungarians are a free, democratic nation. we don't need to be taught about democracy by people who have unfinished homework in their own country.
madam president, the new hungarian constitution demolishes the pillars of a democracy based on the rule of law and opens the way to autocracy. this is a major setback on the road of transition. the process of preparing and adopting the new constitution was hardly legitimate. the preamble is exclusionary and reflects a distorted interpretation of history. the main text represents an intrusion into private life, basic human and citizens’ rights are defined in a narrow way, social rights are substituted by state objectives. checks and balances are weakened, especially the independence of the judiciary. the european council, parliament and commission cannot ignore these violations of european values, because this may set a negative precedent for other illiberal regimes to follow. nevertheless the democrats of hungary do not expect the remedy to come from abroad. were it to happen that way, it would only reinforce the view of the hungarian prime minister, who compared the eu to the soviet union. the solution can come only from the hungarian citizens, who will reject this constitution when they realise that an autocratic regime cannot provide high living standards and more freedom. twenty-one years ago we were not required to fight for freedom. now we are. in the meantime, europe should keep its watchful eye on hungary and encourage the hungarian democrats to regain the initiative.
mrs lunacek, please. i would like to ask you if you can list the number of eu member states whose constitutions mention the next generation of ombudsmen or commissioners, and how many eu member states have such an institution, which is in hungary and is mentioned in the constitution? or can you name any constitutions - if you read the current hungarian constitution, the new hungarian constitution adopted in april - that contain more and more far-reaching environmental and next generation clauses than the new hungarian constitution? i want you to name these.
madam president, maybe it was not understandable, but i shall make the question more simple. ms lunacek, in your country – i know you are from austria – is there a green ombudsman? in hungary there was a green ombudsman several years ago and there will be one, according to the new constitution. is there a green ombudsman in your country? yes, or no?
the treaty on european union states that the european union is founded on freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. these values are common to the member states. the copenhagen criteria are based on this, and these are the conditions for accession. however, the union institutions also have a responsibility to ensure that these principles continue to apply in the member states after accession. i would now like to remind everyone of this responsibility, in particular president barroso and commissioner viviane reding, who have primary responsibility in this area. the new hungarian constitution does not correspond to these principles, either in terms of the circumstances in which they were created or in terms of their content. the issues involved are therefore not national but european. the constitution was adopted by a single party, without social and professional debate, its drafters had dubious democratic legitimacy. the democratic opposition parties asked for legal guarantees that the new constitution would be based on a broad social consensus and, lacking this promise, withdrew from the constitution. the two main tasks of the constitution are to ensure human rights and the proper functioning of the state. the framework for the proper functioning of the state is problematic. the new basic law requires a two-thirds majority to amend the tax system, the pension system, the family support system. this prevents candidates in the next election from promising changes to these and voters from being able to choose freely. in addition, the constitution gives the indirectly elected budget council veto power over the budget decision of the national assembly, which in turn can lead to the dissolution of the national assembly, the calling of new elections, threatening the stable governance. the level of protection of human rights is declining. the limitation of the constitutional court's powers also reduces the enforceability of these. the eu's most important achievement is that it has, on the basis of its values, brought into democratic rule of law the conflicts that could only be resolved by causing so much human suffering. instead of bad solutions, it offers and expects from its members clear rule of law frameworks, constitutional guarantees, institutional checks and balances, and negotiated solutions. we should keep these.
madam president, we are not simply discussing domestic problems in the european parliament. european values are being questioned in the new hungarian constitution. therefore we have to discuss it and have to do so now. there is still time before the adoption of the generic laws. i hope everyone agrees that the constitution has to be balanced, close to the citizens, based on generally accepted values and principles, and should be party neutral. sadly, the hungarian constitution does not fulfil these criteria. even the adoption of the document is questionable. there was no, or very little, social consultation. the text is only supported by one political party and it is opposed by major constitutional experts. the new constitution raises questions on an international level. for example, there is a lack of reference to eu law in the closing provisions. we note clear differences, and comparing the text to the charter of fundamental rights, the text shows inconsistencies and differences in values and principles. the principle of good governance does not prevail in the document either. the constitution fails to provide an eu-conforming, modern, administrative structure. the aforementioned generic laws are very dangerous. they make governing the country almost impossible for any future government. we have the impression, as one of our colleagues has put it, that the government is like a football team trying to change the rules and the referee during a game. this is not the way to treat political opponents and this is certainly not how democracy works in the 21st century in europe.
i'm not going to let you do this. i did. one word. we agree. shame about the criticism. and my question is this: what makes you think that a two-thirds, cardinal law can't be changed into a democratic country? i could have done it by now. it's possible in other countries. and name him specifically. what are the common values, the common european values, that the hungarian constitution does not accept, or rejects, or perhaps goes against? because it's too general.
my dear mr. alvaro, i have to ask you... i would like to ask you if you are aware that in the previously valid hungarian constitution, 27 laws were included in the two-thirds majority laws, and in the newly adopted constitution, 26. what's the problem here? this number is from a recent scientific analysis, not my own.
i want to reassure my colleagues in the house, mr. alvaro, that the rule of law is still in place in hungary. i would like to reassure mrs in't veld, mrs göncz and mrs benova that fundamental rights, human rights and eu values are respected in hungary. the hungarian legislation, as laid down in the basic law adopted in april, is in line with the eu's fundamental values and community law. all international legal obligations of hungary, this is also enshrined in the text of the constitution, and if this were not the case the commission would attack it in the luxembourg court in a formal procedure, but we all know here in this room who are here that this is not the case. and what is included in the constitution of a country and what is regulated at other legislative levels by the member state in question is a matter of national sovereignty. in a representative democracy, freely elected representatives decide which areas they wish to regulate at the basic legislative level and which they wish to regulate at the general legislative level. i don't understand this argument from the point of view that we've been taught that the two-thirds rule exists because it guarantees that it cannot be abused. two-thirds rule is why you need a two-thirds rule, because it's a guarantee rule. we are hearing that the two-thirds majority is being attacked, the majority that has been seen as a guarantee. i feel that you are incapable of accepting the rules of the game of democracy. moreover, the new hungarian constitution, as my colleagues have already said, refers to the charter of fundamental rights as a new novum, and it accepts the national minorities living with us as part of the hungarian political community. according to the ombudsman for future generations, it raises environmental protection and responsibility for future generations to an extraordinary level. the way we're talking about this constitution right now, we could be talking about any other european constitution. you're always promoting difference, and you're always saying that if something reflects a different value, it's not better or worse. it's just different, so as a hungarian, i thank you for respecting that, for unity in the name of diversity. (the intervener agrees to answer a question put to the president by way of a question of the order of precedence (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the opposition had the opportunity to participate in the work of the parliament. the opposition has decided not to participate in this work and we respect that decision. instead, as we see, he wants to have the debate here, which the hungarian public doesn't really understand. the intervener is prepared to answer a question of the kind referred to in article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.
it is not constitutionally fixed that everyone should sweep at their own door, mr alvaro, i told you as a liberal representative that those who respect and promote diversity in all areas can accept that diversity can also appear in the spirit of the constitutions, in the choice of values and in the structural structure. that's what i'm talking about. this does not mean that we do not respect the eu's fundamental values, nor does it mean that we do not fully comply with our community or international legal requirements. the intervener is prepared to answer a question of the kind referred to in article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.
my dear fellow member of parliament. i would like to answer why it was necessary to change the rule that a constitution can only be adopted by a four-fifths majority of the members of parliament, since this rule was in force. this rule was abolished by fidesz, this rule was brought in by a parliamentary majority that had 72% between 1994 and 1998 to protect the rights of the political minority, the opposition. what was the reason for this? and in the absence of this guarantee, the opposition did not participate, because it was not this right that was not given, because this rule was changed. mrs. reding, i'm calling your attention to this.
mr. tabajdi, i have to go. i have not been a member of parliament since 1990 in the hungarian parliament, but my colleagues who were members of parliament, and even faction leaders and chairmen of the house, say that there was no such regulation. that's not true. i suggest you continue this debate in the hungarian parliament. this is not a matter for the european parliament to discuss.
madam president! this is the third time i've tried to ask you to speak, and i'm so glad you've managed to speak for the third time. first of all, i'd like to make a correction. the question was whether or not this particular four-fifths majority was in the constitution. it was in the house rules, but they deleted it on fidesz's recommendation. what i want to ask mr kukan is that when mr markert from the venice commission was here and the two-thirds majority came up, which is what we see here again and again, he said that yes, that's what it is, two-thirds. in such a case, self-restraint might be the basic requirement, but he sees no sign of it. i would like to ask mr kukan whether what he said has been discussed with the fidesz representatives who are also in the epp. do you see any indication of any willingness to change these points in the constitution?
congresswoman, i have to go. i would like to ask you, how much do you think the new constitution's regulations on the concept and procedure of abortion have changed compared to the previous constitution?
mr. speaker, i have to ask you a question. i have two questions: does romanian law allow romanian nationals to be granted citizenship by romania even if they do not live in romania? that's my first question. my second question is whether you have a rule that romanian citizens who do not live in romania can participate in the elections to the national assembly and the senate?
my fellow officers. i apologize for calling so often, but i was involved in the drafting of this constitution, and i am very disturbed when i hear of mistakes, or intentional or innocent misunderstandings. i would therefore like to ask mrs bozkurt, after she said that there had been no consultation on this issue, whether she was aware that 917 000 hungarian citizens had returned the questionnaire of 12 questions through which hungary and the hungarian government had consulted hungarian citizens on important constitutional issues. directly with hungarian citizens, 10% of the hungarian population participated. do you know of any constitution in europe that has been subject to such extensive prior consultation?
everyone has received this letter, madam representative, to express their views in response to you. i thank you for the opportunity to discuss this, because it gives me the opportunity to tell you what immeasurable happiness it has meant to me to see the birth of the hungarian constitution. it is a painful fact that 20 years since the change of regime have not been enough to give birth to a new constitution in my country. today, we have concluded this transitional period and created a new basic law based on national consensus. our new constitution is a collection of our common values, beginning with our most beautiful national prayer, which also stresses the importance of our common european values, in which christian roots, the family the defining values are finally put in their place. it is more than reassuring that in the new basic law the hungarian state finally takes responsibility for its citizens both within and outside its borders and does not let the state debt run away, and among others states the responsibility of the parent for his child.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i'm glad i finally got a chance to speak, because i'm sad to say that i didn't get any real criticism after all. secondly, you, the members of the european parliament, that is all of us, cannot intervene in national competence. but if i may, i would like to make a recommendation, not a criticism, on behalf of 80 million people with disabilities. in europe, only the hungarian constitution has a special measure and help for the disabled. i would suggest that you enshrine this measure in your own country's constitution. thank you for your attention.
my dear mrs reding. i'm talking to you. it is obvious that the hungarian constitution alone would not trigger such a european debate, since within six months hungary, after the media law, will unfortunately be on the agenda again, since it is not the constitution itself, but the anti-democratic practice that has been established in hungary: they will take away rights acquired from judges, law enforcement officers, private pensioners. what is the justification, mrs. reding, for taking away rights acquired from the constitutional court, the ombudsman? they threaten the independence of the judiciary, they take away the independence of the media. these are extremely important and extremely dangerous elements. and i'd like to give you the 30-page critique of the venice commission. i am very much aware of the criticisms made by this body and i very much hope that the european commission, and you in particular, will finally take your role seriously, since you are supposed to be the guardian of the european treaties. please do your job.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the socialist initiative can be described in three words: lawless, cowardly and conceptual. it is illegal because the european parliament has no authority, no competence to examine the hungarian constitution. it is clear from mr barroso's letter and mrs reding's statement that this is a national competence. it is a cowardly initiative, because if the socialists were sure of their business, they would have gone to the european court in luxembourg and not argued here. they don't do that, they didn't do that, because they know very well that they would lose the procedure of the court. and finally, this procedure is conceptual, and the initiative itself is conceptual, because there is only one thing behind it: the two-thirds victory of the civil side in hungary last year. the socialists - and apparently not only the hungarians, but also the europeans - could not digest the decision of the hungarian electorate, so they then use every opportunity to attack the hungarian government.
it's just a ten-second correction. luxembourg is not the home of the european court of human rights, i would say of jean-marie le pen. it's in strasbourg, you know.
madam president! we have witnessed something unprecedented here in the european parliament today. one of the most important elements of national sovereignty, the constitution of a member state, was attacked by some members. it is better to know that those who have today brutally invaded our national sovereignty have not only harmed hungary, but all of europe. today's precedent weakens the true supporters of europe and strengthens the eurosceptics. it's irresponsible. however, we are reassured by what we have heard from the committee. evidence, but it's good that it's been brought up in this house. the european commission has neither the intention nor the right to interfere in the constitutions of individual member states. after all this, it is high time for the left to end its political smear campaign against the hungarian constitution. the new hungarian constitution is an important tool to clean up the ruins of eight years of corrupt and inadequate socialist rule. the government of the people's party in hungary has been given two-thirds power to do this. the left must take care that this decision cannot be changed in brussels or strasbourg.
in writing. hungary is a member of the union and respects the rules of the club fairly. if anyone thinks otherwise, the club has rules about how to behave. if they were right, they would have to start a breach of duty procedure against us, this is the case for all countries, we hungarians do not ask for exceptions! we will defend our position in a proper, factual debate, but we have no wish to engage in a political witch-hunt. we, your hungarian socialist colleagues, while cleaning up the rubble left behind us, are mobilizing incredible energies to organize hungary into a democratic, european, free country, based on the constitutional mandate received from the hungarian citizens in free elections. so we adopted a new constitution, which finally replaces the ill-remembered 1949 communist constitution, which in the eyes of the hungarians was a symbol of tyranny. we hungarians are a free, democratic nation. our constitution is a thousand-year-old one, which has protected the right to resist tyranny since 1222, the famous golden bull, which included religious tolerance for the first time in europe with the declaration of torda, which was among the first to guarantee civil equality in 1848 and which has one of the oldest parliamentary traditions in europe. we don't need to be taught about democracy by people who have unfinished homework in their own country!
mr. president, i have to go. in connection with the forthcoming summit, i would like to draw the attention of the negotiating delegation to two issues. the first is to rethink the importance of russian energy imports, and the second is to extend the partnership agreement to include eu representatives as observers in the presidential elections in december and march 2013. as we can see, energy imports to russia are likely to increase as more nuclear power plants in europe will be shut down after the stress tests are conducted. so our concern is that russian addiction might be back in play. however, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is another side to this question. russia is at least as dependent on the european union as it is on the majority of its products. if we don't take over their energy products, then there could be some very serious stability problems for the russian economy as well.
madam president! i myself was a member of the delegation to the eighth ulaanbaatar conference three weeks ago, and i had the opportunity to see for myself that the political system and society in mongolia were indeed becoming more democratic. there has been a lot of progress on human rights, and we have been in meetings with civil society organizations who have told us that they have been recognized by the mongolian government, and that there is a - and this is welcome in every way - freedom of the media. the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which could include the introduction of european standards in mongolia, and the reorganisation of the eu mission, which currently functions as a technical office, are of the utmost importance in order to improve relations between the two countries.
in writing. the problem is real and unfortunately widespread, and it is present in almost all the european union. victims sign up in good faith for advertising in professional directories after being led to believe that it is free. and then, under different titles, the operators still ask for money, and then the non-payers are constantly harassed, put under a kind of psychological pressure, and even threatened with legal action. in order to avoid further misrepresentation, it is essential to monitor the effective implementation of union legislation in the member states or, if necessary, to propose repeated amendments to union legislation in order to address the problem. but the most important thing now is to show businesses in trouble that we not only understand their situation, but that we are fully behind them. at the same time, companies operating misleading trade registers should be called upon to cease their deliberately misleading business activities, which are contrary to the spirit of the competition policy of the european union.
governments today have no more important task than to develop new methods for the very unlikely event of the end of cooling water or the end of all electricity supply, and i agree with mr rübig that this should not be a one-off event, but should be done over a longer period of time, more often. i also agree that we should extend this stress test to other countries further east, to neighbouring countries, and i ask the commission to look at the possibility of making room for this stress test in the eastern partnership. finally, commissioner, protection against cyberattacks or terrorist attacks must be created in the european union in all sectors that may result in cross-border emissions of hazardous substances. the stress test you dreamed up, commissioner, the current hungarian government failed, because in the last seven years it has thwarted the construction of nato radar, which would have given greater protection against air attacks than the main one to the paks nuclear power plant.
the next european council is also about trust. we have reached a historic moment. this is a historic moment because it reveals the challenges facing the european union, and it is time to respond responsibly. but the answers are closely interrelated. but first i would like to congratulate and thank the hungarian presidency for the excellent work it has done, and in this respect i would like to thank in particular the secretary of state, mrs enikő győri, who has been there always and everywhere. he's set a very strict and tight schedule, which they've managed to keep, and they've kept their pro-parliamentary face all along, which i thank you for. this semester was a real challenge, because not only was the task new to the hungarian presidency, but the tasks themselves were new. think of the launch and institutionalisation of the european semester, or the six-pack of economic governance created under the codecision procedure, which represents a fundamentally new economic approach. the expectations for the next council meeting are high, for the issues of the legislative package not yet settled by compromise, but at the same time the responsibility for the agreement is high for the council and the parliament, as they must decide whether to continue the bad practice that led to the suspension of the stability and growth pact and indirectly to the crisis, or to put an end to the policy of bad deals and national bargaining and finally to make way for a new approach to economic policy that proposes common european solutions based on commonly agreed rules, and that can finally fulfil the economic policy character of integration, with a strong europe at its centre. citizens, national parliaments and markets also expect the european union to finally shape the european economy in a unified way, according to rules that have been agreed and respected, to ensure the stability of the single currency and to protect european citizens effectively from the crisis.
the european council hopes to adopt the three successful objectives of the hungarian presidency: the danube strategy, the roma strategy and the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia. the most important, however, would be the adoption of a six-pack of economic governance legislation. the hungarian experts and diplomats deserve the highest recognition, as they have done a tremendous job, and managed to narrow it down to a few questions between the council and the european parliament. to move the negotiations forward, the hungarian government should seek a compromise at the highest level. however, it is questionable whether the government of viktor orbán has enough political capital to do so. can györgy matolcsy, who has publicly and brutally attacked the european semester, make a credible case for strengthening economic governance? i hope we can still make a breakthrough in the council. europe needs to introduce economic governance as soon as possible.
in writing. – we are preparing for a busy european council meeting which will, in my opinion, be even of historic importance. the hungarian presidency has some important success stories under its belt: the danube strategy and the adoption of the roma strategy. however, i do hope that after the good quality work they have done on a professional level, they will have enough political weight and agility to reach important goals in other areas, such as the croatian accession, migration and the very pressing issue of economic governance. they have to work hard to achieve an understanding between 27 member states, to reflect europe’s unity and willingness to overcome the crisis and preserve the essence of european integration. i am impressed that my country’s first eu presidency happens to be during such a challenging period and i hope that the european council this week will live up to the expectations.
mr president, we could not hear the english interpretation of the previous speech. i was very interested in it and, if it is not too much of a burden on the speaker, and if you can do something so we can hear it in english, i would very much appreciate it.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! how different would be the opinion of european citizens, of increasingly indignant european citizens, about the european union if they found that the taxes they paid, as public money, were paid by the european union for the sole purpose of the public good, in proportion to the public good produced. in the context of european union agricultural aid, the dess report goes in this direction. tomorrow we will have a huge responsibility to vote on the ceiling, the maximum, that we have put on the hectare-based, area-based subsidies, as a result of the fight that many of us have fought for and the amendments that we have tabled, as the dess report calls for. i ask you to vote this through the conscience of the voters. yes, there should be a ceiling on the public money that the various green, red and other urban businessmen receive from european taxpayers!
dear officer cioloş! parliament, the commission and the council agree that the cap budget should be adequate, at least at the current level. it is important to maintain the two-pillar structure, to maintain direct payments and, in particular, a strong rural development policy, to improve competitiveness and to strengthen environmental awareness. innovation, research and development are key. putting public goods that protect the environment, technologies that reduce the effects of climate change, and technologies that enhance biodiversity and water management at the heart of rural development. the catch-up of the new member states will require further financial support in the future and will require more favourable co-financing conditions for access to rural development aid beyond 2013. it is important that from 2014 the new member states have the same conditions of competition, the same level of opportunity. and finally, it's important not to pit big farms against small farmers.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. europe needs a strong agriculture beyond 2013, as it is the european agriculture that can guarantee the food security of european citizens. the primary objective of agriculture must remain food production in the future, as the world's population continues to grow, reaching 9 billion by 2045. but this requires a strong common agricultural policy, strong agricultural subsidies. i therefore consider it very important that the agricultural subsidies should remain at least at the 2013 level in the next eu budget period, according to the draft report. in march this year, the hungarian presidency adopted conclusions serving the interests of european farmers. the significant price fluctuations of the past period are partly the result of wrong decisions by the eu, such as the abolition of intervention for maize. we need an agricultural policy that ensures effective action against extreme price fluctuations and speculation. the milk crisis has made it clear that production restrictive measures are needed in the milk sector. in those member states where sugar production has decreased by more than average as a result of the sugar reform, it should be possible to increase production.
the following joint debate is to be held on the following reports: report by elisa ferreira on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances (com ((2010) 0527 - c7-0301/2010 - 2010/0281 (cod)) (a7-0183/2011) report by diogo feio on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure (com ((2010) 0522 - 2010/0276 (cns)) (a7-0179/2011) report by vicky ford on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the member states (com ((2010) 0523 - 2010/027 (nle)) (a7-0184/2011) report by sylvie goulard on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the implementation of the budgetary surveillance procedure for the budgetary year 2010 (com ((2010) 0522 - c7-0301/2010 - 2010/0281 (cod)) (com (a01705) 0177/2011)) report by the committee on the implementation of the budgetary control procedure for the budgetary imbalances in the euro area (com (com (2010/027222) - 2010/08 - 2010/027 (cod)) ) report by vicky ford on the implementation of the budgetary surveillance measures for the budgetary framework of the member states (com (com (2010) - c7-0170170170170-0252-0180) and the committee on the implementation of the budgetary control of the budgetary policy of the european union (com (2010) - 2010/07-017/07-017/07-017/07-02
i thank the rapporteurs, the advisers, the hungarian presidency and all those who have made it possible for the six-pack of economic governance to be before us today in this form. it would be nice to think that this package is no longer necessary and that europe's economic problems are solved in one fell swoop. the reality is quite different. europe is not out of the crisis, and if we do not act responsibly, it may face further crises. i agree with those responsible thinkers who say that fiscal austerity and the stability and growth pact should be strengthened. we must say that the european union has been too resourceful, lacking a crisis mechanism, and consequently unable to respond adequately to the serious consequences of the crisis, which has caused economic, financial and social disruption. we can't afford to make that mistake again, but we must learn from our past failures.
on behalf of the s&d group. we welcome the report on behalf of the socialists, the result of long debates, consultations, negotiations. we will support it unanimously tomorrow. for 60 years, we've been using nuclear technology to generate energy, to make medicine, to operate submarines or icebreakers. for 60 years, we have not been able to provide effective solutions for the management and long-term storage of hazardous waste. the directive reduces political obstacles, creates financial conditions and independence, which is why we support it, even if we do not agree with all its elements. although we have different views on energy production, we agree that the principle of 'polluter pays' means that waste generated in the european union must be stored here even if it can be reprocessed in a third country. we support the reduction of waste to a minimum and, if the results of r&d allow, the possibility of further recycling, which is why the principle of recyclability is of paramount importance to us. we're very focused on the human factor. we must guarantee this, and this is closely linked to the safety of workers, which must also be a top priority during waste disposal, but we also think it is important to mention that the current legal basis does not provide a sufficient european solution, since we do not have the right to co-decide, and that is why we think it is important to look for a new legal basis in the future. and finally, europe must lead both in regulation and in the construction of storage facilities. it's the only way he can set an example for the rest of the world.
while the european union is working on how to store and bury so-called spent fuel cells, the united states and russia are looking at them as economical energy sources. the fourth generation of molten salt reactors can be fuelled simply by the spent fuel from today's reactors. the prospects for using a proton accelerator with a lead bismuth target are even greater. the high-activity and long-life isotopes produced in any nuclear power plant are essentially harmless: they can be converted into low-activity, short-life elements, while the equipment is capable of generating power. another huge advantage is that they also operate thorium, of which the world's available supply is ten times that of uranium at present. they're powered by a fraction of the critical mass of the fissile material, so there's no way that a spontaneous chain reaction could have occurred. so here's another opportunity to break away from the world's leading research and development and economic position unless we start to see the introduction and application of new technology right away.
mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house. radioactive waste is produced in all eu member states, so in order to protect citizens and the environment, it is necessary to ensure not only the spent fuel from nuclear power plants, but also the safe and efficient management of radioactive waste in general. it is therefore very appropriate that this issue should be discussed here today in the european parliament. i agree that the use of nuclear energy is a national responsibility. however, the formulation of eu principles on national waste management rules has a place. in the absence of such a system, the divergent rules have led to the interest of operators in having their radioactive waste treated in the countries with the most permissive rules. in view of all this, the initiative of member states to establish mandatory waste management programmes is a good one. however, this requires the designation of competent authorities that strictly supervise nuclear waste management activities and, where appropriate, are able to sanction violations appropriately. in my view, the national programmes should also clarify the scope of the authority's activities and the responsibilities of the market players. finally, the total management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is a very costly activity. without clarification of the funding issues, therefore, national programmes are worthless. it is an important principle that the necessary financial resources are earmarked for the management of nuclear waste at the time of its generation. i agree that the costs of waste management should be borne by the producer of waste. this provides a proper incentive for operators to reduce and manage radioactive waste effectively.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in recent weeks, a series of brutal attacks and hostile hysteria campaigns by romanian politicians have been launched against the founders of the szeklerland transylvanian representative office in brussels, and the romanian hungarian community in general. meanwhile, in romania, a plan for the territorial and administrative reorganization of the country is being pushed through, which would relegate the hungarian majority in the szeklerland and partium regions to an absolute minority by creating eight majority megaregions. the hungarian representatives in transylvania, romania, in accordance with the explicit provisions of the european charter for local self-government and the european charter for regional or minority languages, firmly reject this anti-democratic and discriminatory way of reorganizing the regional structure of their country. we appeal to the democratic values of the romanian and hungarian people's parties in government to provide us with their effective help and to ask for the active support of the european parliament in protecting our hungarian community in transylvania.
in writing. the european union, and hungary within it, can only maintain its leading role in the fight against climate change by introducing new technological and economic solutions and by continuing to innovate. our country could be a real winner in green economic growth. the country still has billions of dollars worth of carbon dioxide allowance assets that the government should urgently proceed with the sale. with the domestic capabilities, we could produce large quantities of raw material for bioenergy production. it is therefore not clear why the new hungarian rural strategy excludes support for the production of agricultural raw materials for energy purposes. it is time for the hungarian government to commit to expanding the use of renewable energy and support innovative domestic developments. the european union, which currently accounts for only 12% of global greenhouse gas emissions, will not be able to stop climate change on its own. in the large emerging economies, such as china, brazil, india or russia, environmental awareness is growing and huge markets can open up for european companies in the alternative energy sectors. however, european companies will only be competitive in these markets if they are encouraged to innovate and develop continuously in the european regulatory environment. so we need a really ambitious carbon reduction target. with the accession of the new member states, the eu27 is already 17% below its 1990 level of emissions thanks to its favourable carbon footprint. therefore, it is realistic to raise the 2020 target to 30%.
the rapporteur is the committee on regional development. − the regional development committee has discussed and is happy to support the proposal. he sees it as being very prudent and providing a good preparation not only for the trial lawyer himself but for the whole budget process in the future. the committee on regional development, of course, has a priority on cohesion policy funding and we would point out that we are now at a stage in the natural seven-year cycle where member states are calling in or trying to call in and spend increasing amounts of money on the basis of the programmes they have envisaged. in my own country, the situation is that in the last year we have received twice as much as we used to receive in two years. so this shows the acceleration, which of course has internal causes, but it is also observed in other member states. we therefore hope that this policy will be strongly supported.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to welcome the commissioner and my colleagues. the 2012 budget can also be called the little brother of the economic governance package, since it is also aimed at achieving budgetary balance, creating the conditions for economic growth, increasing employment and competitiveness by applying appropriate economic and fiscal policy instruments. we need results, we need jobs, we need growth, we need industrial policy, that is, we need a strong european economy. it is not possible to expect member states to increase their eu contribution to gdp in the face of an unstable euro and in the face of a crisis and recession, in the hope of gdp growth. at the same time, we must create a solid economic base so that the union we envisage can truly serve its citizens. that's what we've been working towards. we need to deliver on the eu 2020 strategy. we must pave the way for europe to become a leading area of innovation, a leading industrial and technological revolution, rather than a declining one. the 2012 budget must be part of our 2020 strategy. we're talking about the second year of this 10-year program. we can't say please, it's just gonna stop later. that's why we don't recommend enough austerity or the withdrawal of the european union to the europeans. the 2012 draft budget and the 2013 research framework programme no 7 should certainly serve this purpose.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the greek state is technically bankrupt. the relevant question is no longer whether it needs debt forgiveness, but when. the sooner the better. european institutions are failing spectacularly to understand the nature of the problem. it is not a liquidity crisis but a deep solvency crisis, reflecting the lack of international competitiveness of the greek economy. piling more debt upon the greek taxpayer is not only useless but completely counterproductive. for greece to start to grow out of the fiscal crisis, part of the debt burden should be forgiven and absorbed by creditors, public and private alike. french, german and especially greek banks will have to be recapitalised. having purchased a huge amount of greek government bonds, and also having accepted much as collateral, the ecb is now trapped. twenty years ago, when transition started in the former communist countries, one of the most important structural reforms was the establishment of an independent central bank with strict legal prohibition of the monetisation of public debt. the ecb has basically been following the practice of communist countries. there is clearly a conflict of interest in its mandate, and now the euro zone is suffering the consequences. it is in exactly this context that we have to look at the budget for 2012. it is an illusion to expect any growth in member state contributions for the next year, in the light of the enormous burden that taxpayers are likely to assume either way. the letter from the presidents and prime ministers of the five solid and solvent countries should not be forgotten and pushed aside. the experience of the painful negotiations, and the frustrating failure of parliament, at the end of last year should likewise be remembered as a warning. the mandate of the ep delegation for the trilogue should be much more modest, and at the same time more realistic, if parliament wishes to remain relevant in the light of the huge challenges the eu faces for the future.
i have therefore the opportunity to make two specific proposals. the socialist group supports the construction of iter, but does not accept a budgetary transfer of 100 million euro to the 7th research framework programme, which is needed to achieve european objectives. we want to use the 5% flexibility allowed in point 37 of the interinstitutional agreement to finance the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the trans-european transport network and the trans-european energy network. this is a necessary and indispensable condition for the european union budget to be able to play its role as a real stimulus to the economy. thank you very much, and congratulations to the reporter.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european commission will allocate more resources to strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice in the draft budget for next year. however, i am not sure about the commitments that can be translated into dealing with the consequences of unforeseen events, such as the increased immigration following the north african uprisings, or the framework for partnership initiatives. the european union must respond effectively to the changes in north africa and be better prepared to deal with unexpected events. the crisis may place a greater burden on the common budget than planned. it is right that the commission should allocate more resources to the protection of the external borders, but in parallel the framework of the european asylum fund and the funds for integration should be expanded. it is in the interest of all eu citizens to fully implement the charter of fundamental rights and to strengthen the eu's human rights dimension. we are all concerned about the rise of discrimination and the continuing spread of intolerance throughout europe. i therefore consider it important to respect fundamental rights and to extend the programmes for strengthening eu citizenship.
we are discussing a vital issue for the new member states, including hungary. there is some alarming information that some commission decision-makers want to cut the cohesion policy budget substantially from 2014. it would be suicidal. in this case, not only will the catch-up of the poorer regions be impossible, but the europe 2020 strategy will also be at risk. it is very right and socially just that we should create a transitional support category. however, it is unacceptable to link cohesion aid to macroeconomic criteria, as this would punish the regions for government policies over which they have no influence. finally, the mechanism of cohesion policy has worked, it is basically good, transparency needs to be increased and bureaucracy reduced.
in writing. cohesion policy has proved its indispensability, effectiveness and flexibility in the fight against the crisis. it also makes a significant contribution to the achievement of the eu2020 objectives, although it is important to stress that cohesion policy is not the only means of achieving these objectives, and that all policy areas must contribute to an appropriate extent to the success of the union's new growth strategy. i would like to emphasise that the error rate has decreased significantly in recent years and that most errors come from areas outside cohesion policy (e.g. public procurement). cohesion policy funding should not be reduced because imbalances remain and only cohesion policy can address them. the poorest regions need more support, but in return they must be more productive. at the same time, it is important that the conditions applied in the field of regional policy are genuinely linked to areas affected by cohesion policy and that member states are not required to implement fundamental social and economic reforms in the name of conditionality. to increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy, it is essential to simplify the current highly complex regulatory system, to provide a uniform interpretation of rules and obligations, to make the regulatory environment predictable and to clearly define responsibilities. cohesion policy is not an aid policy but an investment in the upscaling of less developed areas, with positive consequences for richer regions as demand increases.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the report of mr. stavrakakis on the state of play and future synergies for increased effectiveness between the erdf and other structural funds. greater flexibility of the funds, the simplification of their administration and strategic coordination between instruments, policies and actors is a long-standing demand and a necessary tool for the social inclusion of marginalised groups within a complex policy framework of integrated policies, making use of all the eu financial resources available under the eu funds, and in particular under the erdf, esf and eafrd. the amendment of the regulation governing the erdf extending the eligibility of housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities enables member states to revise their operational programmes and re-prioritise their investments, by using a maximum of 2% of their total erdf allocation for housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities for both replacement and renovation. member states must make full use of this opportunity to complement their efforts to ensure the effective social inclusion of the most vulnerable and the european commission should come forward with a specific action plan on this regulation to speed up the use of funds and to prepare a report on their utilisation.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr langen, for the enormous amount of work he has done on the draft report. i agree that the precise, uniform regulation of otc transactions is a pressing issue, especially after the european financial supervisory systems have finally been established. i would go further: the form of transactions should be regulated in such a way that they are transparent to all supervisory institutions, national authorities and financial operators on the basis of uniform standards. the commission proposes to make otc derivatives trading mandatory and to involve ccps in the clearing of transactions. the additional capital requirement is unavoidable because the possible practice of banks investing in high-risk investments to keep profits and possibly to raise capital from depositors' money cannot be tolerated. the commission's proposal, which affects the us rules in several respects, is acceptable. however, it is worth considering where the reporting obligation for trade and trade repositories is better placed. should it be an obligation of the counterparties or is it more efficient for the ccp to do so? so the question is, where would these data stores be, and what exactly would they look like? a system could be envisaged that would create a lobby register-like system to aggregate the information provided to the data warehouse into a harmonised system according to a single standard. i wish this could happen in europe. the same principle could even apply to the re-registration of ccps. i think it would be appropriate and important for us to reach agreement on this important matter at first reading.
mr. stolojan's report is a fine piece of work, and more than timely. the problems raised suggest that, given the globalised nature and integration of the financial sector, the supervisory methods and procedures previously applied need to be brought into line with the risks arising in complex and extensive financial interconnected systems. i agree that the high level of contagion of financial conglomerates and the disruption of the system will determine the situation of the financial sector in the long term. i am in favour of amending the directive to restore confidence and of drawing up guidelines for transparency. and the stress tests that we're proposing can point to weaknesses, so i think risk exposure is going to decrease in the near future.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
the following point is added to the report by pascal canfin on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a regulation on short selling and certain aspects of cdss (com ((2010) 0482 - c7-0264/2010 - 2010/0251 (cod)) (a7-0055/2011)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i'm sorry to hear that. our resolutions on internal security issues reflect our core european values faithfully, always expressing a balance between security and freedom. it is worth pointing out that security is as much a fundamental right of our citizens as data protection. indeed, profiling is often viewed with hysterical fury by many as a diabolical tool, but do we know what exactly profiling and data mining mean? do we really know what we're talking about? it is essential that the commission should define the necessary definition - and that this should be done with scientific rigor - since the fight against terrorism and organised crime in its present form is unlikely to be successful with conventional law enforcement tools alone. i would point out, however, that in the member states' own criminal law enforcement, profiling is a widely accepted and very effective tool, without any particular problems. furthermore, it is inevitable that the eu's own pnr issue will be addressed in the context of the pnr agreements to be concluded with third countries. the union, its member states and the aviation industry would benefit from a centralised functioning of the union pnr system. if we really want to be reciprocal in the transmission of information - that is, not just giving but also receiving information from third countries - then we must create here in the union the single european organisational framework that is really able to receive and process data, ensuring equal access to information for the member states. the solution - though we have heard different versions - is yet to be found. it may be worth considering whether it would not be most effective to give europol competences that would enable it to play a leading role in the operation of the eu pnr mechanism. i suggest that we consider the options in the negotiations on europol's future mandate.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the exchange of pnr data is not a matter of data protection cooperation but of data protection interference. it's simply insulting that the united states of america considers europe to be incapable of screening out criminal elements. it's extremely dangerous to release the data of european union citizens, especially under the circumstances that the united states of america can keep even the most intimate, most trusted information for 15 years. i would like to ask you who will decide who is a terrorist or a suspected terrorist in europe? and my other question is, what are we going to get in return if this deal, god forbid, happens? the other important point is that the european union should wake up to the fact that it is an adult and change its style to involve only those countries that are on a parity basis, whether it be the united states, canada or australia.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, seven years of hungary's membership of the european union is enough to make a social balance. in 2004, they drugged the hungarians with the idea that if we joined the european union, then hungarians could open a confectionery shop in vienna. they put it up on the billboards. well, the reality of this contrast is that seven years have passed and hungarian residents earn 340 euros a month, while in western europe they earn 1,000 to 1,200 euros. hungarian teachers have salaries between 300 and 400 euros, pensioners have an average pension of 200-250 euros, while in western europe they can earn eight to ten times as much, and yes, about 300 per year in hungary freeze in the 21st century, and that we can not open a candy factory in vienna, but there is no sugar factory left in hungarian hands in hungary. the reality is that eastern europe was needed by western europe not in the spirit of unification with a great european ideal, but in terms of markets and cheap labour.
the development of economic relations between the union and china is of paramount importance. but, in addition, the different approaches to human and minority rights issues must be openly discussed, as the british and german heads of government have done. unfortunately, the hungarian prime minister has failed to do so and, contrary to the eu's common position, viktor orbán has already called china a strategic ally, a country that vigorously upholds human rights, restricts freedom of speech and the press, and seriously violates the rights of tibetans and other minorities. can china be considered a strategic ally on these issues as well? during the chinese prime minister's visit to hungary, the foreign police authorities brutally prevented a peaceful demonstration by the tibetan minority. this was protested by several meps, including jozsef szájer, gál kinga, gyürk andrás from fidesz. the credibility of their exemplary protest would have been supported if they had also expressed their reservations when the hungarian media law and the new hungarian constitution were adopted.
in writing. help in emergencies is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it offers. the 112 emergency number was introduced in my country in 2006 with the aim of making emergency services more accessible. i am proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to the full reception of the 112 emergency call, which means that from the end of 2012 through the improvements from 19 million euros, the existing numbers will be phased out. now, many of you may be wondering, why 2012? i believe that the technical implementation and the awareness of a number to be embedded in the public consciousness should not be a short-term process. technical expertise is particularly important. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have a single it infrastructure for emergency services or to have no data search or location system, since such a system would not only promote but also make it more difficult to organise assistance with a single approach. the aim and content of the report are therefore to be welcomed. it's time to make the public aware that in any emergency, they should call 911. all member states should continue to be asked to do their utmost to ensure that 112 becomes a fully reliable service available throughout europe.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the key energy challenge of the decade is to guarantee affordable, secure and sustainable energy for all european citizens. however, we cannot expect to achieve a breakthrough unless we have an efficient energy infrastructure with adequate flexibility. i agree that diversification should be a top priority for the european union. as the report emphasises, the energy density of the energy transmission networks in the countries of south-eastern europe is not adequate. it is in europe's interest that alternative supply and transit routes reduce the region's unilateral vulnerability, increase its market liquidity and allow for proper competition between different energy sources. in this light, i consider it a great step forward that the report clearly identifies the criteria on the basis of which a priority investment can also count on community funds. the criteria include diversification of transit routes and sources, market integration and increased liquidity, elimination of energy islands and integration of renewable energy into the grid. i agree that socio-economic factors should be taken into account in the assessment in addition to purely economic indicators. finally, i would like to turn to the sources of funding. the commission estimates that eur 200 billion of investment is needed in the energy transmission sector alone by 2020. eu funds are expected to cover only a fraction of the total financing needs, so it is essential to create a stable regulatory environment and new innovative financing instruments to stimulate private sector investment.
mr. president, my fellow mps, yes, mr. prime minister. let me analyse and evaluate the six-month hungarian presidency from two aspects. first, a major dive. of course, we have to look at the european union, and then secondly, i would like to do this analysis from the point of view of hungary. the european union had two choices, and it still has two choices: either a europe of nations, which is an economic union in which the sovereignty of the member states is recognized, the independence of the member states is respected. the second way is the united states of europe, where the member countries are seen as virtually colonies. unfortunately, the hungarian presidency has sided with the united states of europe, has sided with further centralisation, and this is making it difficult for hungary to restore its sovereignty in the future. hungarians voted in 2004, hundreds of thousands of hungarians voted for the european union because they expected that the hungarians of the carpathian basin would be able to reunite within the european union, to interact freely, to be members of a community again. let us assume that the hungarian presidency is a symbolic presidency and that it has little room for manoeuvre in a national sense. so, mr prime minister, you should have at least symbolically raised the slovak language law, the benes decrees or the szekler territorial self-determination, which you postponed, and yet you insisted tooth and nail on the protection of a flawed media law and created the roma strategy, with which the problem is not that the european roma strategy was created, but the problem is that the hungarian strategy failed.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, i have to ask you to leave. a few days after the hungarian presidency is over, the first feeling is one of relief, because we hungarians are holding the presidency of the union for the first time, and you know very well that we hungarians are a proud people and we will keep to what we have promised. we did that. we have complied with the rules of the club we joined and we have also met the objections to the media law mentioned earlier by submitting ourselves to the common european rules, because we do not ask for special treatment. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of mr. swoboda, vice president, and read in english the preamble to the hungarian constitution: "we agree with the members of the first free parliament, which proclaimed as its first decision that our current liberty was born of our 1956 revolution". so the hungarian constitution does remember 1956, it places itself at its foundation. and i particularly appreciate the view of cohn-bendit, who probably only appeared in parliament at the time of the speech, who says that public servants do excellent work. among the hungarian meps there is the only roma member, there is a deaf member, so everything is fine, there is only one problem with hungary, and that is the person of the prime minister who is leading this whole thing. who runs the whole party and the country with this power. this is a rather strange worldview, and perhaps there's a hidden contradiction. we hungarians act as we say, and the past has proved that. and we are not going to meet the conditions that the european parliament is going to impose in a resolution in a few hours' time, in which it calls on us to relax the strict conditions for the budget laid down in the hungarian constitution against indebtedness. this is what the european parliament is calling us to do. if we consider it a brussels or strasbourg dictate, then it is a dictate that we hungarians will not fulfill. i would also like to draw mr swoboda's attention to the fact that mr orbán thanked everyone, the whole parliament, for the work we have done, but he emphasised the group of the european people's party in particular.
mr barroso, prime minister of the republic of south africa. today, my statement during the hungarian eu presidency is still valid, that all hungarian patriots, including the mszp ep delegation, were interested in its success. it's not surprising to us, not to most of the country, that the balance of the last six months has been a slide, a professional success, a political failure. the successful conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia, which can be considered the greatest achievement, the adoption of the danube and roma strategies and the first eu financial semester were the result of the excellent professional position of hungarian diplomats and officials. it is only a half-hit, although it has been a great effort to push forward the economic governance package. it is a clear and unprecedented failure that during the eu presidency, there was no meeting of the heads of government in hungary, and the eastern partnership summit was not held. it's too bad. the hungarian government's domestic policy as a whole has overshadowed professional achievements. the political benefits of successive presidencies were thus lost. the adoption of the media law, the dismantling of the democratic rule of law, the constitution voted by one party, the statements of the eurosceptic presidency have provoked legitimate international confusion and criticism. during the hungarian presidency of the eu, the hungarian government was isolated in many respects. the international image of the country has unfortunately deteriorated. it is noteworthy, so i will speak slowly so that everyone understands it clearly: the first criticisms were made by the right-wing german government, the french government, the right-wing luxembourg government on the media law, and the right-wing german government on the constitution - that is, without any basis, the distorted position as if the european left had attacked the right-wing hungarian government. prime minister! in this house, no one wants to lecture anyone, it's not the european style. nobody has the right to give out coke and salters. but everyone has the right to express their concerns and reservations if they believe that the eu's community values are in danger. in the last six months, the prime minister's government has received a number of signals. it is a pity that the hungarian society could not live this six months with pride and with a raised head, which it would have needed very much.
ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, mr. president. i don't know which hat the hungarian prime minister wears, but he can wave either the hungarian or the european hat before the hungarian civil service. the hungarian civil servants and hungarian experts have done everything to make the presidency a success. they know exactly that brussels is not moscow. i respectfully ask the prime minister to respect the civil service after the end of the presidency and not to let them be subjected to another political purge. you were faced with a huge challenge, perhaps best articulated by one of your vice presidents. and i quote: "there is virtually nothing that can stop us, what we invent today, is the bill of tomorrow, the code of conduct for everyone the day after tomorrow, and then we tend to believe that we know everything. the only thing that's dangerous to us is not keeping our distance. mr prime minister! we have not found this moderation in your politics, apart from the successful work of your civil service! mr prime minister! one of your favorite expressions these days is that hungary is at war. perhaps it escaped his notice that the organization he headed was founded on the idea of peace.
when i think back to the beginning, the first thing that comes to mind is the performances of my fellow congressmen. i realized then what a disadvantage we were starting with. at minus 100 meters, it's a considerable disadvantage in the short run, isn't it, my hungarian socialist colleagues? they planned it, but they didn't think we were serious about our goals and wanted to achieve them. we had our obstacles, and even today, they like to twist our words. the hungarian presidency set a tight agenda and ambitious goals, which it persevered with, even in the most difficult times. this was the first presidency to change the institutional system and to implement the codecision procedure while remaining parliamentary-friendly throughout. the presidency also worked hard to launch the european semester and to produce the six-pack of economic governance. the roma strategy is the guarantee of the rise of the layers that have been torn. in the hope of successful economic and political cooperation, we have invited the danube countries to re-join the alliance. the accession of croatia is now within reach. we can rightly say that the hungarian presidency has worked hard for success. we are happy that others are satisfied with our work, but i must say that we owe this service not only to europe, but also to hungary and the hungarian people.
in writing. i do not wish to speak too much about the evaluation of the hungarian eu presidency, which has just ended: i am speaking against the results and successes of the latter, which have already been assessed objectively. i myself, as a hungarian minority in transylvania and a romanian citizen, would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to the hungarian presidency and personally to prime minister viktor orbán for the attention paid to the issue of minority communities and the cultural, ethnic and religious diversity of europe, and for the support provided for the european integration of the western balkan countries, namely the accession of croatia and the admission of romania to the schengen area. in addition to acknowledging this, i would like to apologise to the european parliament's plenary for the fact that, while the hungarian presidency, in the extraordinary circumstances of the global economic crisis, tried to do everything in its power to find a way out of it, the left in post-communist hungary, namely the european representatives of the hungarian socialist party, exported their internal political frustrations and party political differences to the eu and to parliament, and for cheap political gain, betrayed hungarian national interests and ignored the common european interests, and failed to obstruct and obstruct the work of the hungarian presidency's victim, using the support of their misguided foreign alliances. with the end of the hungarian presidency, we can say with satisfaction that their unprincipled attempt to do so has failed on the whole .
my fellow members of the house of representatives! we cannot be held hostage to our own prejudices on gm crops. unfortunately, there is currently insufficient scientific evidence on the long-term environmental and ecological effects of the cultivation. it undermines the judgment of the technology and makes consumers mistrustful. the committee on agriculture recently visited the united states, where we found that there is an overconfidence in genetic engineering, while in europe there is perhaps too much mistrust. in some countries, there is a populist stigmatization of technology. the double-faced nature of the european position is that today 90% of european feed soybean imports come from gm production. bioenergy production would be a consideration, but unfortunately there is no clear research on long-term environmental, health effects. i call on the commission to start these investigations as soon as possible.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, in the european union, certain economic lobby groups are constantly trying to create the impression that europe must choose between quality and quantity production. europe has such exceptionally good natural resources that it is possible to produce both quality and quantity without the need for gmo technology. in the explanatory statement for the report, i would like to quote two important points. one is that no serious surveillance studies have been carried out yet and the other is that control systems are not in place. under these circumstances, how do we want to promote or support gmo technology? the possibility of using gmos should not be left to the discretion of the member states but should be prohibited until the production of gmos is safe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the dismissal of the workers previously employed at the yard in question is clearly an effect of globalisation. i agree that the european globalisation adjustment fund should support these people. this aid must set a precedent and raise public awareness of the harmful effects of globalisation. this case also shows that the large corporations and profit-oriented multinational companies that spread across europe as a result of globalisation are not serving the interests of society, and their presence in the market is destroying many more jobs than they create. i hope that the hungarian people who are losing their jobs en masse, especially the former workers who are losing their jobs in the north-eastern region of hungary, will receive similar financial compensation as soon as possible.
in writing. − in my extraordinarily brief speech, i would like to explain why i voted no to the motion for a resolution, tabled by the left-wing and liberal political groups, on the subject of the revised hungarian constitution. there are several reasons for this, but i will highlight only two of them, as follows: (1) the resolution states that the hungarian constitution 'creates a legal basis for actions which neighbouring countries may interpret as interference in their internal affairs' (paragraph i). (2) the resolution calls on the hungarian authorities to explicitly guarantee in the constitution, including the preamble, that hungary will respect the territorial integrity of other countries... (see paragraph). i firmly reject tendentious and insinuating formulations reminiscent of the political discourse of the national communist regimes that have passed through history, namely the doctrine of non-interference of the ceauşescu dictatorship in romania, and i consider them offensive both to hungary and to the hungarian national communities living in neighbouring countries. the hungarian basic law expresses hungary's responsibility towards hungarian communities in foreign countries, which continue to suffer severe discrimination, and does not pose any threat to the territorial integrity of the countries concerned. i also strongly condemn the initiative taken by the socialist meps göncz kinga and tabajdi csaba in adopting the european parliament resolution, which borders on betrayal of hungarian national interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. let the first word be praise. the commission has been grinding between two millstones in its attempt to reconcile, and has done so skillfully, the need for funding for the common european objectives supported by the european parliament and the member states' budgetary consolidation objectives. let me highlight some of the elements that seem to be good at the beginning, at the first approach. unlike some of my colleagues, i am pleased that agricultural subsidies and cohesion remain the two most important items in the budget. i'm glad to see more money going to small businesses, research, and cross-border cooperation. i'm glad that the reimbursement systems are getting simpler and they're going back a little bit. i think it is a step in the right direction and i am pleased that the commission has had the courage to start reforming the revenue side. but i cannot be happy that the internal ratios in cohesion policy have been shifted in the wrong direction. the share of the amounts allocated to convergence regions is significantly reduced in favour of the more developed regions. reducing the ceiling for cohesion support will be a major problem for many countries, and more developed member states will be less affected, thus at the expense of less developed member states. the commission proposal does not deal sufficiently with the problems of large cities, the capital cities. the level of agricultural subsidies is falling significantly, although the details are not yet known. and there is a danger that a piece of legislation which parliament has the right to adopt unanimously may not contain elements which require a codecision procedure. finally, colleagues, everyone is talking about the crisis. we're looking at seven years. we're going to be in recession for seven years? we're going to get out of this. do not judge the possibilities of the next period by the problems of today or last year.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the result of the negotiations on the directive on food labelling was disappointing. the commission is proposing to make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin of all fresh meat products, eggs and honey. i am very sorry that the proposal to make the marking of traffic lights and the daily recommended intake mandatory has been rejected. consumer and health organizations believe that this label would have helped consumers eat healthier. it would also have been better to inform consumers by labelling on the front of the packaging, as proposed by glenis willmott and the socialists. it is not clear why the right wing opposed the interests of the liquor lobby to prevail, when it would have been extremely important to indicate the energy content of alcoholic beverages. that would have been a healthier diet.
i agree with the excellent report by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt that we must overcome our previous fears. the european parliament, two months ago, in the context of the protein deficit, has already accepted, on the basis of the opinion of the environment committee, that we should review the ban on animal protein sources for non-ruminants. i fully agree that with the current health regulations, there is no reason why non-reproductive animals should not be able to get animal protein. this must be resolved as soon as possible and this has been confirmed in today's debate, and many of my colleagues have said, and i can only confirm, that there is such a degree of food shortage in europe, such a degree of vulnerability, that we are importing genetically modified feed from outside the union from the united states, which is also why we must accept the proposal of mr roth-berendt.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. many may recall the smallpox epidemic of the late 1990's, which was caused by feeding bse-infected cattle animal protein. in response to the devastating epidemic, the eu created the so-called tse regulation in 2001, which banned the use of animal protein in food-producing animals. thanks to strict measures and regular monitoring programmes, the incidence of infectious spongiform encephalopathies has decreased significantly from 2167 positive cases in 2001 to 67 in 2009. in view of the more favourable epidemiological situation, it is therefore appropriate to consider relaxing the feed ban on animal protein. we must also take account of the significant protein deficit within the union, which means that two thirds of europe's protein feed needs have to be met by imports. the use of certain animal protein, not produced from ruminants, could reduce the demand for soybean imports, mainly from south america, and thus make european livestock farming more profitable. despite all these arguments, i think it is important to stress that the ban can only be relaxed if other measures provide adequate guarantees that a situation similar to that of the 1990s will not reoccur in europe. although technical progress allows for some changes, the current ban can only be mitigated by adhering to strict safety standards, such as the exclusion of cannibalism, the use of reliable testing procedures and strict separation of production lines.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's proposal to allow the use of certain animal proteins as feed, subject to strict food safety requirements. europe currently produces less than a third of its protein feed needs, with the rest to be met by imports, mainly from south american soya. this not only increases the vulnerability of european livestock farmers, but also raises serious environmental and climate concerns. the growing demand for soybeans is spurring growers in south america to cover more and more land with soybeans. and the only way to increase agricultural land is to destroy the rainforest. more than 10% of the eu's arable land would be needed to fully replace protein imports. it is therefore clear that in the present circumstances, increasing the production of european protein crops alone will not eliminate dependence. moreover, in most parts of the continent, the climate does not allow the production of the most competitive protein crop, soybeans. at the same time, the use of animal protein could reduce the demand for soybean imports and thus make european livestock production more sustainable and profitable.
in writing. the report by my colleague pascual de grandes was extremely timely. i hope this report sends a strong signal to the european commission about the content of the legislative proposal. i would like to stress that it is of the utmost importance that this should be made compulsory in order to take account of the special situation of passengers and their fair and individual treatment. thus, passengers in a vulnerable health or communication situation, such as pregnant women, children, elderly persons, persons with disabilities, persons with implanted medical devices, or passengers carrying in their hand luggage medical devices and medicines necessary to maintain their health, should be given special treatment when using body scanners. i therefore consider it necessary to draw up a european code of conduct on the use of body scanners, covering not only treatment but also the health effects of body scanners and the consideration of human rights. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her initiative.
mr. prime minister, my dear colleagues in the house of representatives. central europe has never been more central to eu policy. we need to prove that the enlargement of the european union has been a success and that the new member states can make european union policy a success. in 2011, it's up to hungary and now poland to prove it. however, this requires that the issue of disability is also given priority. in the previous tripartite presidency, this was a key issue. the disability issue has been at a high level over the past year, with the adoption of the 10-year disability strategy, the adoption of the european council conclusions on this issue and the adoption of my report in september. i believe that 80 million people with disabilities deserve to be taken up by the polish presidency and treated with dignity. i wish the polish presidency every success in this and i wish it to do a great job.
in writing. hungary has not just handed the reins of leadership to another member state, but to a friendly country. poland is embarking on an ambitious presidency programme for the challenging six months ahead, which deserves our full support. i agree with the polish prime minister who warned in his first statements about the dangers of a new euroscepticism. we know that leading politicians who say they are committed to integration in brussels, make decisions and statements that are radically opposed to it at home. like donald tusk, i myself am concerned about the double standard, the aggressive pursuit of national interests at the expense of communities. i appreciate that, after a series of failed initiatives, the polish government is finally looking to boost relations with our eastern neighbours, with the continuation of the enlargement process and the creation of energy security as its main objectives. unlike its predecessor, poland has managed to get its finance minister to attend eurogroup meetings as an observer, which i consider particularly important for strengthening coordination between the member states participating in and not participating in monetary union. i also welcome the fact that the polish government is organising a conference on the long-term eu budget with the involvement of all those concerned, including the european parliament. i hope that the parliamentary elections in poland in the autumn will not interfere with the work of the next presidency. we know from experience how much of a disadvantage it is when domestic events overshadow the work of the presidency.
in writing. the polish presidency of the union is taking place at a difficult time. the post-lisbon institutional framework is still being shaped and a reassuring solution to the effects of the crisis must also be found. it is good to see that the polish/cypriot trio's programme pays particular attention to gender equality even in these difficult circumstances. the programme states that the principle of equal opportunities is essential in strategies for economic growth and prosperity and identifies specific issues (e.g. reconciliation of work and family life, women's employment and educational status, maternity leave, violence against women) where the presidencies want to make progress. it is important, however, that the presidency should also take care to ensure that the equal opportunities approach is applied horizontally, covering all policies. with regard to the chapter on poverty in the programme of the trio presidency, i would like to ask whether the presidency intends to give special attention to the situation of female pensioners who are most at risk of poverty. i also hope that the presidency will make the necessary efforts to bring the negotiations on the maternity leave directive to a successful conclusion, as the proposal has so far failed to be adopted because of opposition from the member states. i am very pleased that the polish presidency intends to act as an integrating presidency. this is something that europe needs very much today. i hope that the integration of women's interests will not remain a matter of decision.
we are discussing one of the most important reports of recent times, and the european parliament is the first institution to give a detailed opinion on the causes of the crisis, the ways out and how we can avoid another crisis, and what the 'more europe' we have been talking about a lot lately means. the decisions to strengthen the euro area are slowly and laboriously being made, and it is good that parliament has laid down its ideas in this respect. we cannot allow internal imbalances to undermine the european project. we must uphold our principles of cooperation and solidarity within the euro area and outside the euro area. the berès report stresses the importance of preserving the welfare acquis and the social assistance system, which are also economic stabilisers. the objectives set out in the 2020 strategy can only be achieved by providing adequate financial resources, and it is therefore important that the report calls for a significant increase in the eu budgetary resources in the long term.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the movement for the right of hungary (jobbiks) already on april 11 this year initiated that the hungarian parliament condemn the armenian aggression in nagorno-karabakh in 1992-93, and that hungary initiate the international community to put the hitherto unresolved nagorno-karabakh conflict on the agenda. as a result of the soviet armenian army's attack, azerbaijan lost 20% of its territory, 20,000 civilians were killed and about 1 million people were displaced. the armenian genocide in nagorno-karabakh was one of the most forgotten genocides of the 1990s. it is important that the european union, which is so sensitive to human rights, does not look selectively and does not apply double standards when it looks at a series of national tragedies. as a representative of magra, i would like to assure the azerbaijani people that we follow their fate with brotherly love and trust, and at the same time we call on everyone to exercise restraint in relation to azerbaijan.
mr president, prior to the kazan summit of 24 june the international community expressed high hopes that a peace deal between armenia and azerbaijan would be concluded on the nagorno-karabakh region, populated for centuries by christian armenians and muslim azeris who lived intermingled in the south caucasus, coexisting under different foreign rules. sadly no agreement was reached. instead, all international hope was destroyed, leading to the further frustration of two broken nations and a powerless community to mediate. to avoid further suffering, the eu cannot linger any longer and let other actors in the region, such as russia, shade the process according to their strategic influence. we have to continue to pressurise and support both countries in a balanced way so that they will adopt the basic principles and we must help these two nations with european aspirations build peace through reconciliation. the time to resolve the humanitarian crisis has never been more pressing, so that the hundreds of thousands of refugees and internally displaced people can return to their homes in dignity. the only solution for real and sustainable peace is dialogue and compromise, together with a shift in thinking, so that all actors reflect on the needs of others and the suffering of their people. peace came to the balkans. it is high time that peace also came to the neighbouring south caucasus.
mr president, as is very clear from this debate the nagorno-karabakh dispute has been frozen for a long time but there is now a serious danger that it could unfreeze and trigger off a major crisis. we know the background: at the end of the war between azerbaijan and armenia in 1994, armenia occupied around a fifth of azerbaijan’s territory and made about a million people refugees. but there are other actors as well to complicate matters: russia, turkey, iran too, all have interests in this area and could become involved if the karabakh conflict were to erupt again. in addition azerbaijan has used the money from its energy wealth to acquire a major quantity of modern weaponry; armenia has likewise made military preparations. last month, as we know, russia attempted yet another mediation between the two parties in kazan but this failed. the level of trust between the two antagonists is too low. now the outcome is frustration in baku, and frustration can be a bad counsellor, though it is understandable when a sizeable part of one’s territory is under foreign occupation. azerbaijan’s disappointment at the inaction of the world, and of the west in particular, is further indicated by its recent decision to join the non-aligned movement. now an escalation of the conflict – maybe by accident on the ceasefire line – cannot be excluded; that is in no one’s interests and further mediation should be pursued urgently. i agree with those who have argued in favour of an eu involvement.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs ashton for her letter to me the other day in connection with my speech on 11 may. in the context of the elections in russia on 4 december, i would like to stress the importance of establishing the status of eu election observers. in march of this year, i myself attended the regional elections as an observer at the invitation of the russian civil society organization civil control. on this occasion, i was able to speak with the chairman of the russian electoral commission, viktor tsurov, who informed me that there is currently no agreement between the two countries on the sending of election observers. i therefore consider it very important that the osce negotiations be concluded successfully and that the european parliament's representatives be able to participate officially in the elections in russia. i would also ask commission president fleckenstein to make sure that this question is put to the russian negotiating partner at the next meeting of the commission in warsaw in september.
i agree with officer šefčovič. schengen is indeed the most important acquis of the european union, next to the euro. it also has a symbolic meaning and is for many people the most visible sign of the european union's existence. the european union needs trust to function effectively, and to maintain that trust we need to find solutions to the problems that address the real causes. the unilateral introduction of border security is not like that. the appropriate response to the wave of migration is to strengthen the external borders and to develop a common migration and asylum policy. the fight against crime is particularly helped by schengen cooperation. temporary reintroduction of border controls can only be accepted by a community decision and regulated only under article 77 of the treaty, in the framework of a co-decision procedure with the full involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! in view of the foregoing, many are outraged that some european union countries have temporarily reinstated border controls. they feel that this violates one of the most fundamental principles of the european union. however, it is not the fault of these member states but of the leadership of the union that they have done so. this step is a consequence. the eu's external borders are weak, and as a result, they are unable to stem the tide of immigration. we must stop the immigration wave, we must reduce crime, so that the people of europe can feel safe in their own country again! thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i wish to thank the commissioner for the very clear exposition of the commission’s position. my particular thanks also to andrew duff, as cooperation on this report has been excellent. one of the proposals in the report on direct elections to the european parliament has turned out to be unusually challenging. there is considerable opposition to the idea of a pan-european list which would represent the european interest and strengthen the european identity. my position is that this controversy deserves further exploration. after all, there is generally a parliamentary majority that supports the broad project of european integration, yet the pan-european list, which is certainly about just such integration, is proving unacceptable to many. my sense of it is that opposition to the list derives primarily from those who place the short term before the long term. it is true that in the short term europe faces an economic crisis of far-reaching proportions, the future of the euro is far from assured and instruments to resolve the crisis are still being elaborated. those who focus on the short term will say that this is no time to be experimenting with a pan-european list – yet. in reality the case for the opposite position is stronger. whatever form the resolution of the crisis will take, it will demand more european integration, not less. that will unquestionably mean more transfers of competences and powers to the european union. the power flows so transferred will require representation – that is the heart of democracy – and will demand that representation at european level. this is precisely what the pan-european list wants to achieve: to represent europe and to represent the citizens of europe, which is why concentrating on the short term is short-sighted and futile.
the duff report acknowledges and confronts the fact that the eu institutions - including the european parliament - are irrelevant, opaque institutions in the eyes of the majority of europeans, but that they only add to the chaos instead of solving it. he's dealing with election systems that are barely understood by the average person, and mathematics and in-house bargaining. the point is that european parties, which devour a huge part of the parliamentary budget, which go by different names, but are essentially globalist, neoliberal, and want to abolish nation states, suddenly started a feverish reform of electoral law so that the patriotic, anti-centralization forces could not, or only very difficultly, start in the european parliament elections in 2014. the report's biggest flaw is that, while leaving the current system unchanged, which does not even guarantee the proportional representation of each state, it is expanded with a transnational list, that is, ordinary citizens, who vote less and less from cycle to cycle because they hardly understand and see the benefits of the ep, its activities are hardly followed, will also be able to vote for international lists, so-called european parties. do you seriously think that a german, english or hungarian voter who is largely unknown to them, who does not know their problems, will vote for spanish, french or finnish names in 2014? do you believe it is possible for nearly 500 million europeans in 27 countries to campaign in person? it is almost certain that the confusion will increase and that even more citizens will avoid the european elections.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) ...decision is a very interesting document, because it seems much more sincere and therefore farsighted than many of our previous similar documents. but not as far-sighted as the former chief negotiator of the united states of america, susan swab, who recently published an article in an international journal entitled, "the doha round is dead". the former chief negotiator believes that the doha round is dead because the world has changed so much in the last ten years and the wto has not been able to keep up with these changes. he was unable to follow the changes that were associated with the rise of china and brazil, for example. the author believes that china and brazil and all those who have already benefited greatly from the wto should make much greater sacrifices to help the least developed countries. the wto has also not taken into account the changes in climate policy over the last ten years. it is very difficult to imagine any new trade regulation system that does not address climate protection issues. and as the world grows ever more scarce in raw materials, the wto is unable to effectively address those who restrict access to raw materials markets through export restrictions. and another important issue that many people have been talking about today is the issue of food security, which is becoming more important in the world as the number of hungry people increases. this issue also needs to be addressed within the wto framework. the doha round may not be completed, but that does not mean the end of the wto. this does not mean that the wto is going to be abolished. the wto rules currently in force will continue to operate. these rules need to be enforced much more consistently, because many of the people who have benefited from the wto in general have been the biggest offenders of the wto itself. let's focus on enforcing the rules, especially the export restrictions. it is unacceptable that some people limit access to, for example, rare earth metals. and even if we fail to conclude the wto negotiations, even if we fail to conclude the doha round, there are still many opportunities for the european union to expand trade through bilateral agreements, bilateral balanced agreements.
the stoa panel in the european parliament has chosen the management of natural resources as the theme of its annual general meeting this year, on my initiative. i am very pleased to hear mr bütikofer's excellent report, because this is indeed one of the greatest challenges facing europe in the 21st century: what will happen to natural resources, including raw materials? the buttikofer report is about the fact that we have to focus very much on recycling. and you can see this not just in raw materials, but in water. in israel, it's 75%, in europe, spain is the highest, 25%. but i want to draw your attention to the fact that we have no illusions about recycling. when the red mud was poured in hungary, that was the tragedy. scientists then came together to figure out how to recycle the red mud tanks as waste. even though there are good technologies, recycling is so expensive that there is no business entrepreneur who would take up recycling. the direction is good, but we have to make the economic sphere interested.
on 5 may last year, the european parliament voted overwhelmingly to ban cyanide mining technologies altogether throughout the union. the european commission has so far failed and is failing to comply with the ep's call for this. meanwhile, in romania, a corrupt mining project threatening environmental and natural disaster is being politically refocused. the fukushima nuclear disaster is a warning not to play with fire. i ask my romanian and hungarian colleagues to work together to protect our common carpathian basin environment. i ask president jerzy buzek to help the european parliament to enforce the ban on cyanide mining in the european commission and in the mining area of verespatak in romania.
in writing. – during the year-long preparations the epp group presented a unanimously firm position by expressing its discontent over the tone and subject matter of the report. i had a negative opinion about the report. reservations were twofold: a matter of both principle and the practical approach. i was critical of the tone determined by prejudices, an assumption that counter-terrorism keeps violating human rights, operates with excessive budgets and exaggerates threats. these propagandistic assumptions were based on hypotheses for which no evidence was provided by the rapporteur. the goals laid down in the report are hardly feasible in practice but the rapporteur showed no intention of reflecting on this. as data is classified for security reasons, to what extent and on which benchmarks should the proportionality between the cost of a preventive counter-terrorism operation and the threat level be assessed? as supporters of transparency and accountability, the epp group stands for overseeing counter-terrorism policies; however, within the established competence of designated authorities, not bodies made up of ambitious civilians or self-declared politicians. undermining the morale of counter-terrorism, especially nowadays, is proof of irresponsible behaviour, thus the epp is not in a position to support a report reflecting any political campaign jeopardising security.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! following the disaster at the us oil rig, europe is also seeking to tighten and harmonise safety standards for offshore oil and gas production. ensuring the smooth and safe operation of production is also a security of supply priority in european waters. the north sea is the main source of european oil and gas production. i would like to draw your attention to four key aspects of the report. first of all, i consider it essential that third countries be proactively involved in the tightening of safety standards. as a significant proportion of north sea sites are controlled by non-eu member states, this is the only way to reach a satisfactory solution. secondly, i agree that instead of hysterical reactions, we need calm action: clearly define responsibilities and implement appropriate preventive measures. however, banning hydrocarbon production in european waters would be an unnecessary overreaction to what has happened. thirdly, i think it is a good initiative to focus on prevention rather than on the aftermath of damage. strengthening the licensing procedure, standardising licensing conditions, making independent audits mandatory and training staff all contribute to preventing a potential accident. finally, i support the principle that manufacturers should be held responsible for the damage they cause. only financial responsibility provides a proper incentive for market participants to comply with preventive measures and to guarantee the highest level of security.
in writing. – i would like to warmly congratulate ms bauer for her excellent report on the situation of women approaching retirement age. our continent has the highest proportion of elderly women in the world, who frequently face double discrimination in the labour market, based both on age and gender. as a consequence of the rising divorce rates and the shorter life-expectancy of men, women are often and increasingly over-represented among the isolated elderly. widows and lone elderly women in general are at a higher risk of poverty, isolation and social exclusion. yet elderly women approaching retirement age represent a significant resource for tackling the ingravescent demographic challenges the eu must face, so we must ensure that they can stay healthy and active as well as remain in the labour market if they wish. member states need to adequately address the multiple discrimination that older women are facing in seeking access to employment, also by exchanging best practices in improving the quality of working conditions of older women in order to create for them a sustainable and healthy workplace.
i am pleased that the european parliament is paying close attention to alternative dispute resolution procedures and to the implementation and transposition of the directive. an important feature of democracy is that conflicts can be resolved within a regulated institutional framework. after identifying the interests, agreements can be reached where there is a high probability of compliance with the agreement, where relations can be maintained even if the parties were previously in conflict. mediation is a tool for this, and there are many areas where it has proven effective: family disputes, child custody disputes, child custody litigation, out-of-court settlements. but in the field of economic, financial, community and minority disputes, effective solutions are often found in this way. however, we see that mediation is not sufficiently known among european citizens, and perhaps this debate and this report will contribute to a better understanding and wider use of mediation. perhaps one of the most important aspects of mediation is that it is accessible to those who are vulnerable and otherwise have difficulty accessing justice. of course, the elements that have been discussed here are important: the reduction of the burden on the courts, the reduction of the duration of civil proceedings, the question of costs and so on. the report also shows that the member states are at very different stages of transposing and applying the directive. i think there are many areas where further unification is needed. while preserving diversity, it would be good if training could be used to coordinate member states' practices in the field of accreditation, as well as in the field of confidentiality rules and the enforcement of the agreement. this is why we are awaiting the commission's communication, which it promised to deliver in 2013.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the eu's decision-makers are driven by the aim of making the union more citizen-friendly. one of the key elements is to make sure that european citizens feel safe and secure in using our most popular eu acquis: the schengen system. but the schengen system cannot function properly without effective external border protection. european citizens therefore increasingly need an efficient, well-organised union institution that is able to react quickly and has the appropriate powers and capacity. it is therefore necessary to strengthen frontex with legal means to make it really effective in the fight against trafficking in human beings, criminal organisations and drug trafficking. of course, respect for human rights, including the human rights of refugees, must be an essential aspect of frontex operations. my colleague mr busuttil has done an excellent job, both within parliament and in his negotiations with the commission and the council, and for that he deserves our full recognition. it should also be noted that the frontex proposal was reached through the efforts of the hungarian presidency over the past six months. with hard work, we hope to have created a good background for frontex's work.
in writing. − even though gender equality and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the european union, and despite some effective initiatives both in the member states and at eu level, most women still have to overcome barriers when starting and running their own businesses and entering self-employment. national governments, local authorities and the private sector should encourage and support self-employment especially among those women – through administrative reliefs, specialized courses and internal targets – who are excluded from the labour market. due to widespread multiple discrimination based both on gender and ethnic origin, it is extremely difficult for romani women to become entrepreneurs. member states need to examine obstacles to self-employment by romani women, and to create programmes to enable accessible, fast and inexpensive registration for romani women entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. it is also necessary to establish avenues for accessible credit – including micro-credit – for the financing of undertakings by romani women, and the commission must support these activities through relevant funding mechanisms.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our common objective is to achieve a single european energy market by 2014. we want a single european energy market because we believe that this is in the interests of european consumers, since it is the only way to keep energy prices under control, increase security of supply and prevent trade abuses. however, much remains to be done before the single market is established. in addition to missing pipelines, infrastructure connections, and regulation, we're lagging behind. we're behind in implementation, but we're also behind in creating new legislation. in the field of wholesale energy, the remit report fills one such regulatory gap. the legislation will in future allow for the control of crossborder wholesale trade in gas and electricity. a significant proportion of energy products are now internationally traded. therefore, current practice of checks at member state level is insufficient to effectively screen for abuses. thanks to this legislation, the energy agency will now have detailed information on wholesale transactions that have not been publicly disclosed. this legislation will now allow only registered wholesalers to trade energy in countries where no licensing system is currently in place. and this legislation will make it possible to clearly identify who is responsible for any abuse when imposing penalties. house of honor! these are important achievements for which i would like to thank the rapporteur and, as the party's spokesman, for the cooperation. i congratulate the hungarian presidency on having managed to reach the best possible compromise in such a short time for the member states and parliament - in agreement with the commission - as i believe.
officer, please. i'd like to congratulate the people who did the report and the people who did the shadow report. this report is proof that more europe means a better europe for the people of europe. the task is clear: to help optimise energy use, to help develop a reasonable infrastructure and to protect consumers. we support the european union's regulation of wholesale trade in gas and electricity, and we support and call for the preservation of the independence of this regulation and the provision of resources. and we are asking that after all, consumers, the european population, should pay for all distortions, so that this is particularly incorporated in the penalties, that this is taken into account. european consumers will judge us on this basis whether more europe is really better for them. i wish it were.
in writing. – as responsible european decision-makers, we cannot ignore the fact that european citizens do not trust european institutions and this also means that they do not necessarily trust us. we have been wondering for years how to remedy this. i think it is a two-way street: openness and efficiency. we have to let citizens get more involved in what we do (via for example the european citizens' initiative) but, on the other hand, we also have to inform them about what we do and try to make an effort to do our job better. the better legislation package aims precisely to tackle this second challenge. transparency and openness should be general principles that go without saying. eu legislation should be straight to the point and understandable for everyone, and this should apply both to the documents produced and the way they are prepared and negotiated. another important aspect is to carefully analyse the possible outcome of our actions and decisions. this will also ensure that we are not misinterpreting or infringing the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. all this is not only a requirement to restore confidence in european institutions but it is also a must in a modern-day democracy.
a good ten years ago, i was talking to a senior labor researcher at the time, and he surprised me by saying that jobs, jobs that are now gone, will never come back. so what i'm saying is that work is changing, the ways of working are changing, and the legal frameworks that have been developed in the course of welfare capitalism are often not covered, not touched, not regulated. commissioner tajani and i have just been confronted with a problem in relation to forced labour that we could not agree on in a professional law, because, for example, there was no uniform definition of forced labour, no legal definition. so it's not just that big companies have become small jobs, micro jobs, not just that outsourcing, part-time work, home-based work has taken over, but there are so many new and creative forms that there are no rules for. does the commission intend to draw up guidelines on the regulation of unusual, atypical and new types of work? that's my question.
i'm not against flexibility. i think that the very rapid changes in technology, the economy becoming global, requires that we change our mindsets and that we change the laws. i miss the fact that we don't try to react to these things, only very hard. if it's really necessary, we try to give some, mostly unsatisfactory, answers. so, forced labor is not just about social security... from liability issues to safety regulations, there are many situations where someone is actually working as an employee, but at the same time all the burdens that are normally shared with the employer are borne by the employee himself, with all the risks. i think that legal action is also needed here and that we should expect the commission to be more active and more concrete.
on behalf of the ppe group. our socialist colleagues decided to put a question to the commission on homelessness and to table a motion for a resolution on the subject. the people's party believes that the question is appropriate and justified. and the resolution that has been tabled can and will be supported by us. and we agree, of course, that homelessness is one of the most extreme forms of poverty, of extreme poverty, and we think that's unacceptable in the 21st century. it should also be seen and appropriate for that reason that the approach which is also contained in the question requires a coordinated, cooperative and integrated approach, both in respect of cooperation within and between member states. homelessness is a kind of final stop on the road to slide, to break down, to isolation. it's a terminal where a circulus vitiosus develops: the homeless person doesn't get a job. if you don't get a job, you have no chance of getting out of homelessness. other problems are added: physical and mental decline, disease and often isolated communities, crime and other problems. clearly, the only way out is through coordinated efforts and programs in the various fields of social services, health, education, and job creation. if there have been successful examples - and there have been successful examples in some countries in the past, there are also notable efforts - these should be collected, as they say, good practices should be aggregated, and on the basis of these it is reasonable and appropriate to formulate a european strategy. we welcome the question, we welcome the motion for a resolution and we support it.
i also think it is important that the commission should take action in all the areas mentioned in the draft decision of parliament and in the consensus conference on homelessness, in coordinating, monitoring and assisting the homelessness strategies of the member states. however, i would like to draw attention to two aspects which, as new phenomena, require special attention. on the one hand, the social consequences of the crisis are severe and long-term unemployment, and the debt crisis of families, the inability of many to pay the mortgage. this is particularly hard on those who have taken out loans based on foreign currencies, mainly swiss francs, which are constantly appreciating. both are associated with the risk of homelessness and require special precautions. for example, to examine whether the directive on unfair commercial practices against consumers needs to be tightened at european level. the other phenomenon i want to mention is the increasingly common police treatment of homelessness: discrimination against homeless people, their humiliating removal from public spaces, the threat of fines, of being locked up. homelessness is the extreme form of poverty, as we've heard many times today. this should be given special attention in the framework of the european platform against poverty and human rights aspects should also be given high priority.
in writing. strategy-making has always been a very important issue, but in the current economic crisis it has become even more important. member states are trying to tackle this problem with varying intensity and success. i am convinced that the eu has the competence to do so and can facilitate this process by means of appropriate financial instruments, in particular by launching new programmes under the european social fund.
my dear officer. the european union is doing better than expected in reducing its carbon emissions, according to the latest projections from the european commission. largely due to the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, the european union can reduce its emissions by up to 25% by 2020 through implementation of the energy and climate package adopted in 2006. at the same time, as this proposal and this draft resolution very rightly state, it is important to focus on non-carbon based greenhouse gases. but i do have one critical comment, namely, that human activity is narrowly interpreted by the reporters. after all, both crop production and animal husbandry are the result of human activity. and the greenhouse effect of methane is 25 times that of carbon dioxide, and almost 300 times that of nitrous oxide. and the production of crops is also the result of human activity. reducing the use of fertilisers in crop production and using them more spatially and temporally can significantly contribute to reducing nitrogen oxide emissions. the same is true for livestock farming, where methane would have to be contained, so biogas is very important. i was a rapporteur on this in 2008 and i think it is very important that the new cap introduces a greening component in the first pillar, direct payments, from 2014, which can reduce methane and nitrogen oxide emissions from agriculture.
mr president, finance ministers these days praise the ecb for doing a great job, and they have a point, because the ecb is now becoming a fiscal institution. it does the job of the finance ministers. instead of restricting itself to monetary policy, it finances sovereign debt. that is a distortion; it is a confusion of roads in economic policy, and it cannot be successful because it will really create inflation and it will really put more debt on those countries which are now saved, apparently, from this debt crisis. the resignation of jürgen stark is a stark reminder of this confusion. i think we have to realise that the finance ministers have to do their job and the sooner they do it, the better for the eurozone.
in writing. i cannot accept that after the summer euro summits, we are still talking about theoretical analysis of the euro crisis. citizens ask us every day, and rightly so, how long and why the euro is left vulnerable, and what is the shortest way out of the crisis? some member states are of course doing so in practice, but it does not make their situation any easier to do their work in different ways while on the move, and it is mostly downgraded. i am thinking here of the irresponsible and unfounded statements of the rating agencies and some regrettable statements of the committee. it is not enough that the crisis management tools were not available in time, i feel that there are no concrete, forward-looking recommendations from the commission today, even though in the absence of clear guidelines member states are becoming increasingly vulnerable. i have already said that we are not talking about a euro crisis, but a debt crisis. well, if you drag it out too long, there could even be a euro crisis.
in writing. it is an old fact, and reality has repeatedly proved it, that the european union has always developed through crises, crises have contributed to deepening cooperation and integration. this development includes the establishment of the schengen system and the introduction of the single currency. however, the latter was only partially successful: monetary union is not complemented by a common economic and fiscal policy. this led to the break-up of some of the countries in the union and, with it, the crisis of the euro area as a whole. the european union is faced with a new choice: either it retreats towards looser cooperation, with all the serious consequences that this entails, or it achieves economic and financial integration within the euro area relatively quickly. this requires strong european governance, as has long been urged by the european parliament, the eu's most democratic institution. hungary and the other non-euro area countries clearly have an interest in a stronger monetary union and thus belong to a community that also provides them with economic and financial stability. the eurosceptic, war-mongering, populist rhetoric, the false emphasis on our sovereignty, destroys the possibility of hungary catching up and strengthens the arguments of those who are already promoting the plans for the creation of a multi-speed europe. hungary should support all efforts to deepen economic integration between member states and to strengthen the eu's basic democratic values. we have a vital interest in a strong, democratic europe.
in writing. we are witnessing and suffering from a crisis of trust. the massive indebtedness of households and public finances - fuelled by the illusion of cheap money, a rosy future - has suddenly shattered the glamour of the financial markets, and suddenly mistrust and fear of loss have taken over. this panic fear is as exaggerated as the euphoria was before. but while the bubble or the national debt was growing, everyone seemed to be doing well, and now there's a real contraction. not everyone is affected by the crisis in the same way, but everyone is getting less than if the european economy as a whole were healthy and confidence restored. in my country, tens of thousands of people took out swiss franc loans, which were handed out by banks to the hilt until october 2008. since then, the crisis has led to many job losses, a collapse in the property market and a strong appreciation of the swiss franc as a result of the crisis of confidence mentioned above. all of this has left thousands in a hopeless situation. more europe, more solidarity would be the way out, but in some places selfish bias and in others fear of the pain of the new order are standing in the way of quick and decisive decision and action. and in this paralysis, europe is being dragged helplessly into the vortex of crisis. i hope we all get out of here before it's too late. a fractured and weak europe is unlikely to meet the challenges of the future. it's not too late, but there's no time to procrastinate.
in writing. as a first step to overcome the crisis, we must adopt the six-pack of strengthened economic governance legislation as soon as possible, and go beyond that. the introduction of eurobonds and the inevitable closer political coordination that will follow will also have to be seriously considered in the near future, as the only alternatives are unlimited bailouts or the bankruptcy of distressed states. i am glad that the european commission has recognised this need when it promised to draw up a proposal. it is equally welcome that the french-german summit this summer seemed to have finally brought home to the european right that austerity is not enough, but that the burden of the crisis must be shared much more fairly than it is now between the already overburdened european citizens and the financial sector, which has not yet taken its share of the burden. that is why the european right is now supporting the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which was initiated by the socialists. we must introduce this tax, wisely calibrated but as quickly as possible, and its introduction must be accompanied by much stricter supervision of the financial markets. i hope that the commission will make a proposal on this in the near future.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is another issue where the commission is working exceptionally closely with the external action service. in the face of the unacceptable violent repression unfolding in syria, the commission has reacted swiftly and was the first european union donor to suspend its bilateral cooperation with the syrian authorities on 25 may. the suspension was, for the first time in the region, based on the human rights violations committed by the syrian regime. the national indicative programme for the years 2011-2013 was also suspended. in fact, it has lost its relevance given the lack of will on the syrian side to further implement reforms. it is clear that the commission does not envisage further cooperation with the syrian authorities at the moment. due to major operational constraints and the most recent political developments, the commission is working jointly with the european external action service on clear instructions regarding the participation of syria in regional programmes. this participation will be thoroughly assessed on a case-by-case basis. in parallel, the commission is currently working with the european investment bank on the suspension of its technical assistance to the eib loan operations provided through the facility for euro-mediterranean investment and partnership support fund. however, the commission has not suspended all its activities in syria. the projects directly benefiting the palestinian and iraqi refugees are ongoing and will continue. europeaid has also been actively exploring ways to further support syrian civil society. under europeaid thematic instruments, several activities are also being implemented or planned in the field of support for civil society and human rights defenders. the european instrument for democracy and human rights allows confidential emergency support to human rights defenders, as well as support for the documentation of human rights violations, digital security, media and networking of activists. let me elaborate a little more on this issue. there are considerable risks in engaging with civil society within syria under the current circumstances, especially for potential beneficiaries, and the commission is cautiously preparing any new activity in light of the ‘do no harm’ principle. we are exploring ideas for supporting the so-called syrian diaspora or civil society also outside syria. it should be stressed that the commission is not losing sight of syria. once there is the possibility, we will do all we can to support syria on its path toward a peaceful transition to democracy.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you for this important debate and all the contributions that were made. i think it is clear that we must push for a coherent approach in the international community. since this issue has been raised concerning china and russia, i just want to stress and confirm that, of course, the syrian issue is raised in all meetings with those partners, so there can be no doubt about our commitment to bringing all the international community on board on the question of syria. i think we also have to be very clear about our objectives. we have to act against the regime and in the interests of the people, so it is essential that when we talk about sanctions we understand what effects those sanctions may have on the population. i could, referring to the number of arguments that were made, give you a very long list of the sanctions we have imposed and, yes, i want to confirm that we are ready to go even further, but we all know that we have to measure those sanctions in such a way as not to harm the population but to make life difficult for the regime. i also want to emphasise once again the need for unity of the people and a strict message of non-violence. this must also be very much present in our communication on syria. i also want to confirm briefly that indeed the eu delegation in damascus has contacts with civil society in syria and those contacts involve the network of member states’ embassies. of course this is not a very easy process; you can understand that the security situation in syria is not conducive to easy contacts between the eu delegation and civil society, so if you allow i would refrain from further details in the plenary of the european parliament.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2011 at 12.00. written declarations (article 149 of the rules of procedure)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the current state of play of the middle east peace process.
mr president, most of the attention attracted by the arab spring has focused on internal developments, and rightly so, but from the perspective of the middle eastern region as a whole, it is vital to recognise that the arab spring is also transforming the geostrategic environment. the balance of power between israel and its neighbours has shifted. mubarak’s egypt was committed to a policy of zero change, and this included relations with israel. this is moving in a different direction as hitherto marginalised political forces in egypt are emerging. israel likewise had a stable neighbour under the repressive assad regime in syria, where the outcome of the pressure for change remains unclear. there is no guarantee that a putative end of the assad regime will be of benefit to israel. at the same time – others have mentioned this – turkey has initiated a far-reaching improvement of its links with the arab world and it has inevitably downgraded its relations with israel. in an ideal world, this should provide an incentive for israel to find a settlement with the palestinians and to do so quickly. time is running out – i am entirely in agreement with mr de rossa here – and it is vital for israel’s future security that it come to terms with the changes. if not, it will very likely be coerced into them in much less favourable circumstances.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, i have to go. i would also like to congratulate the commission, the rapporteur, and thank you for the effective work you have done with the co-rapporteurs. i think it is very important that we set ourselves four strategic objectives, and i would like to express these on behalf of the socialists of europe. the first is that the 80 billion euros earmarked for the next multiannual budget of the european union should be seen by heads of state and ministers as an investment, not as a reserve fund from which money can be withdrawn occasionally. it's very important that investors and businesses want to multiply that amount. our second strategic objective should be to achieve the 2020 priorities. let us not give up these priorities in favour of other research which is also important, but perhaps of less importance for the future of the european union. if we are determined to build a green, energy-efficient and smart economy, then we must also align our r & d and innovation resources with this. the third strategic objective is human resource management. we must do everything possible to ensure that excellent researchers born in the european union do not have to move north of the pyrenees or west of the oder. these countries also need to build up research and development capacities to achieve their maximum excellence in their own countries. finally, madam commissioner, the european parliament has agreed that we need a new industrial policy. the research, development and innovation results generated by these resources should benefit from horizontal and vertical cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises in the union.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! europe is one of the most developed regions in the world. but some emerging countries have already overtaken us in investing in research, development and innovation. there is no doubt that european investment has increased, but we are still exploiting only a fraction of the eu's innovation potential. there are still significant differences between countries, with only a fraction of the resources going to the new member states. we need to make structural changes to increase the union's competitiveness. in my view, two aspects are of critical importance. first and foremost, i would like to emphasize the need to simplify administration. the excessive administrative complexity is costly and makes it difficult for smes to participate. the elimination of parallel structures and the faster mobilisation of funding will greatly contribute to the involvement of as many actors as possible in r & d. secondly, i agree with the excellence approach. the most effective way to use the financial resources of the framework programme is to select research projects for funding on the basis of excellence. but in the future, we need a more nuanced approach. the new member states do not have the research infrastructure to enable them to meet the criteria of excellence. we must therefore develop forms of financing that facilitate the development of lagging infrastructure. this is the way to ensure that all member states are treated equally in the case of a decision on the basis of excellence.
in writing. - my colleagues! i would like to congratulate my colleague carlo fidanza on his report. in today's difficult economic environment, it is vital to maximise the potential for job creation. the development of tourism, making it sustainable and attractive, therefore plays a key role in many regions of europe. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that we live in an ageing society, and the proportion of people over 60 will increase by 70% in this decade. thus, the need for accessible and accessible tourism is becoming more pronounced, as is the need for active outdoor activities for older people. carlo fidanza recognised the importance of these criteria and incorporated my proposals for accessibility and accessible tourism in his report, thus enabling families with small children, the elderly and the 80 million disabled citizens in europe to have equal access to the services of this area, to actively spend their well-deserved rest and thus generate market demand for european tourism.
madam president, please. hungary experienced the tragedy of the red soot a year ago, this industrial disaster. we have sensed it, and i want to thank you again for the help you have received from the european union. voluntary aid has helped hungary a lot, but we also felt that it was a possibility. the report therefore has a very good aim of establishing a european emergency response centre. i would also like to thank commissioner georgieva for her help and i would also like to ask the house to learn how to pronounce her name correctly in the case of a commissioner who is doing such an excellent job: georgieva. i would also like to point out that after the disaster, the company was ordered by the authorities to pay six times the amount of its own assets, so it has to pay six times. industrial plants should be required to be covered by liability insurance.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the debate on strengthening the eu's response to disasters provides a good opportunity to look at the european disaster response system in a broader context. while i agree with the findings of the report, i think there are still a number of questions that have not been answered: does the union have adequate financial means to protect itself against industrial accidents with serious consequences in addition to natural disasters? do we have a tool that allows for quick and effective damage control in the event of industrial disasters? if we don't have answers to these questions, and i think we don't, then wouldn't it be timely to start working on a new system of effective financial instruments as soon as possible? i am convinced that the solution must be found in a european system of disaster insurance which, based on the principle of compulsory liability insurance, would provide an adequate amount of additional eu funding from the contributions of potential industrial polluters for rapid and effective intervention. the victims would receive immediate compensation, while the risk of non-payment of the polluter could be spread across the eu. in addition, the scheme would also benefit the payers by allowing them to apply for aid for their safety and environmental investments from the unused funds through calls for tenders. i think we need to start the debate on the merits as soon as possible, not wait for another disaster to warn us of the need for it.
i have two questions for the representatives of the european commission here. one is, did it occur to you that food and agriculture should be taken out of the global free trade system and replaced by the right to food self-determination as a fundamental principle, the essence of which is local production, local sales, local processing? my second question is whether you would be willing to sit down with the most important representatives of farmers, from europe, for example from my own country, hungary, but also from other european union countries, or from the third world, the so-called developing countries, poor countries, from which i would also invite representatives of small producers. would you like to hear their experience of how the global free trade that the european union continues to promote is making small farmers and small producers poorer and more vulnerable?
i am waiting for an answer to my question as to whether you would be willing to sit down for a constructive exchange of views with representatives of farmers in europe and in the so-called developing countries who would share with you their own experience in this regard.
with all due personal respect for you, ms dodds, would you kindly confirm that this is not the position of the non-attached members as such, but only your personal position? i am a non-attached member myself and i do not consider hamas a terrorist organisation. i am for a free and independent state of palestine on the basis of human rights and self-determination of people. what is more, as a non-attached member, i also stand for the suspension of the association agreements between the eu and israel while the mass human rights violations by israel against palestine continue.
madam president, i think we all agree that the middle east is undergoing a palpable transformation; the arab spring, democracy movements, decline of the autocrats, they all testify to this. in this context, the bid for the full recognition of palestinian statehood has become a reality – whether the united states accepts this or not. in this context, too, it is irrelevant that the united states has already signalled that it will veto the palestinian application, because the idea of a palestinian state has garnered substantial support around the world. probably a majority of the members of the united nations are in favour, so this acceptance of palestinian statehood is almost certainly irreversible as a political fact. legally, of course, nothing much has happened, but political realities and legal status are often at variance. what is perplexing in this context, too, is israel’s solid rejection of the palestinian position despite all the evidence – and we heard a lot of it this afternoon – that the much discussed two-state solution is the most likely outcome – true, a long-term outcome – of the process. so the implication is that israel will eventually be constrained to accept the palestinian bid for statehood, so the sooner it does so, the better for all concerned. it is regrettable, all the more regrettable then, that israel and its supporters are basically disregarding a new political fact, the due arrival of palestinian statehood.
madam president, the eastern partnership summit in warsaw will take place this september. similarly to the preceding hungarian presidency, enlargement is high on the agenda of the polish presidency, the two being partners in the organisation of the upcoming summit. i would like to congratulate poland, the driving force behind the launch of the eastern partnership, along with sweden. as a member from a state from the former soviet bloc, romania, i would like to stress the solidarity that the hungarian presidency expressed vis-à-vis croatia before accession, just as poland is now showing towards ukraine. on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the soviet union it is my firm conviction that the eu, divided to the extreme, can be reunited with its region on the other side of the iron curtain only through this kind of solidarity, and thus complete its integration process. we well know what happens in our neighbourhood; it affects the entire union. so our neighbourhood policy is essential for a stronger europe. the eastern partnership countries are carrying out reforms in order to come closer to the eu. we continuously ask for further reforms, and stress the need to respect human rights in belarus and ukraine. we need to remain united in our commitment to establishing closer ties and to use the summit to send the right political signal of our will to play a leading role in the region.
i am hearing music when the european parliament lashes out at the stalinist-style unfair criminal proceedings, but unfortunately this music is false because it is again criticising foreign states. as foreign affairs commissioner, do you know that in hungary, a member state of the european union, szima judit, one of the most prominent and perhaps the most active trade union leaders, was arrested by the police the day before a nationwide protest and has been under house arrest for months since then? and does mrs. ashton know that in hungary, for the third year in a row, two opposition leaders, györgy budaházy and sász endre, are in pretrial detention, in an unfair process that the court is now consistently conducting behind closed doors, excluding the main defendant, györgy budaházy, the opposition leader, from his own trial. they didn't do that much under stalinism, because they made it look like it. what will mrs. ashton say if the ukrainians, the belarusians, or anyone else asks her about it? would it not be better if the european union finally investigated these cases and put an end to these outrageous violations?
in writing. bringing the eu's eastern neighbourhood closer to europe. deepening relations is also important for us, as neighbouring countries with democratic values contribute to stability and economic development in the region. while the events of recent months have rightly focused our attention on north africa, we must not forget that the people of the european union's eastern neighbourhood are as much driven by democratic aspirations as the masses who exploded in the arab spring. in this situation, we have a great responsibility: can we offer an alternative that will anchor these states in the long term to the european union and the values it represents? i support the efforts of the polish eu presidency to give impetus to the european union's eastern neighbourhood policy, to conclude agreements as soon as possible and to start negotiations on closer economic and trade relations, from free trade agreements to visa facilitation, if partner countries are ready to do so. the european union must play a greater role in the future in dealing with the frozen conflicts that are poisoning the relations between the eastern neighbours. i am pleased that at the eastern partnership summit in the second half of the week, all eu member states are expected to be represented at the highest level, with the exception of the three large countries. this is as much a sign of the importance of the event as it is of the prestige of the host country's government.
in writing. the eastern partnership cannot replace candidate status for our neighbours aspiring to eu membership. we cannot ignore the aspirations of georgia, moldova and especially ukraine to develop a relationship with the european union that goes beyond a free trade association. however, the eastern neighbourhood policy must be based on mutual trust with russia. if that fails, russia may be prepared to take drastic action. russia, although not part of the eastern partnership cooperation, is an indispensable player in the european union's eastern neighbourhood policy. this is clearly seen in the case of ukraine. the ukrainian government has recently been faced with a choice between maintaining good economic relations and preferential gas supply contracts with russia or entering into a free trade agreement with the european union. in this delicate situation, it is important that the polish presidency of the eu be held by a member state with a high level of expertise in the russian and eastern partnership relations. i hope that the polish presidency will be able to deal with this matter in an impartial and neutral manner. it would have been even better, however, if the eastern partnership summit had taken place at the originally planned february date, during the hungarian presidency. it's a pity that the meeting had to be postponed because of scheduling problems and low attendance. hungary has thus lost a prestigious opportunity and the european union has lost valuable time.
i'm not going to do that. we're always late for everything. mr barroso, i am reminded of the words of the hungarian poet. you're late with that speech. europe is at once a prisoner of the blackmail of the financial banking circles, but a prisoner of the indecision, the irresponsibility of the european political elites. where was the european commission in august, mr barroso? was the european parliament dead? you can criticize the heads of government, but at least they're back from their freedom. europe cannot be governed with that mentality. it's unfortunate that the people's deputies postponed the final vote on the sixth package of legislation. what would have been good in june is now too little, not enough, more is needed. the policy of austerity is not enough, the european right, including the hungarian right, can only tighten. economic growth without job creation: europe will never get out of the debt trap.
mr president, this morning’s session reminded me very much of the congresses of the communist party of the soviet union in its dynamics, especially as there is one man speaking from the podium and about 90% of those who watch him in front of their television sets understand that what the man says has nothing whatsoever to do with reality and with their experiences, yet their representatives applaud enthusiastically. why? because there is a huge gap between the representatives and those whom they are supposed to represent. that is something that should immediately be changed. another similarity is that those who want fundamentally to protest and change the system have to face police brutality, as we had to in hungary between 2006 and 2010. for example, the trade union leader judit szima has now been under house arrest for several months, and györgy budaházy and endre szász, who are opposition leaders who tried to fundamentally alter the system, have been in prison for three years now.
mr. president, i have to ask you... unfortunately, concerns about the stability of the euro and the situation of the union in general have persisted. although the commission, the council and the ecb have taken significant steps to reassure international markets, the economic crisis and the greek default situation have yet to be addressed in a satisfactory manner. i agree with you that it is encouraging that the union has made a historic leap forward in the last half-century, similar to the one we are making today. we are in a historic situation today, as we are voting today on a six-point package of legislation which redefines the foundations of economic governance and which includes the guarantee of common economic success, but which is meaningless without the necessary stability of a common currency. the founding fathers would probably be stunned if, more than 50 years after the community was founded, the brics countries were to help the eurozone out of its crisis. mr. president, i respectfully request that you submit your proposal as soon as possible.
mr president, european integration was born as a means of overcoming divisions and providing a framework for achieving economic prosperity and sustaining – even reinforcing – europe’s role in the world. we have, since then, created impressive political and institutional structures and are dealing with many different policies in the framework of the european union. however, our achievements are now being challenged as we face major internal and external challenges. the euro crisis represents our greatest test so far. no matter how hard all of us have worked for democratic governance, the legitimacy of the european construction is being questioned. this puts a strain on europe’s solidarity, something that has only made us stronger in the long run. this was our standing point and should continue to be our beacon, even during the crisis. i would like to thank president barroso for addressing us today and draw his attention to an important point. all things considered, we are working for the people – all european citizens. no matter how clever the economic solutions we propose, we need a good foundation. we have to respect a principle which ensures that not a single person is left behind.
in writing. today, when we talk about economic policy in europe, we are talking almost exclusively about monetary policy. this is despite the fact that the financial sector is only a very small part of economic policy. we - eu decision-makers and national legislators - should discuss the whole thing and weigh each instrument before making our decisions. economic policy is more than financial measures. it should provide guidance to industry, allow for innovation and research and development, and encourage investment. it has to take care of the three 'i's: innovation, industry, investment. if we do not decide soon on the direction of the european union's economic engagement, it will be extremely difficult to guarantee common, effective and successful action in these times of crisis. we have a responsibility to the next generations, we must now secure their future, and this requires innovation, a strong european industrial policy once again and investment incentives.
mr president i agree with those who emphasize the symbolic importance of this foundation. indeed, it is a good construct for the european union to show that it understands the problems of people who are facing a shock, a sudden, unexpectedly great difficulty. let us remember that the fund was originally set up - we also called it the relocation fund during the debates when this current structure was developed - so that where unemployment arises suddenly, en masse, all at once, as a result of some kind of business globalisation decision, we signal that the union is ready to help, where appropriate, when the possibilities of a rapid response in a national service exceed the limits. but i would also caution everyone against seeing this fund as a correction to globalization and the crisis. that's not enough money, and it wouldn't be fair, and it wouldn't be right. employment and social policies are essentially national in nature and are therefore much more complementary, but extremely useful in this respect. we ourselves support the extension of the fund, but we do not support any change in its structure as an independent budgetary source. we would not consider it right to give the impression that the union is taking over the responsibilities of individual member states. what would require a change within the structural funds, a better alignment of the structural funds and the globalization fund, is an interesting idea to think about. we would suggest that the commission considers it, does some analysis, analysis and then we can come back to it if we need to.
to many, it seems that postponing a council meeting can mean procrastination and indecision. i just hope the market will value this differently. the european council is expected to give a final, reassuring answer to some of the most important questions. the recapitalisation of banks is also a good thing, but only as long as it is necessary to boost the european internal market. officer, please. the bank's capital injections so far have not achieved this objective. it is of course also irrelevant to what extent recapitalisations constitute disguised aid. exploiting the eu's internal market is a potential opportunity, but the balance is a delicate one. if some are being prosecuted for hidden government subsidies, while others are actually being given hidden subsidies under different titles, this is not only distortive but also confusing the system. the ecb will launch a €40 billion covered bond purchase programme later this year. that's good news. but it's very dangerous that this could be used in the secondary market as well as the primary market. the provision of unlimited liquidity to banks for a period of more than one year also entails unforeseen risks. if this is indeed the case, then the efsf system, which now seems to be outlined and born of solidarity, is based on a wrong foundation. i sincerely hope that it's worth the wait, that the timing is changed, and that at the october 23 board meeting, they can agree on a truly comprehensive strategy.
the european union is drifting towards a chasm and this drift should finally be stopped. it is unacceptable that there is not adequate coordination among european political leaders. they are talking back and forth, and in doing so, they are undermining the credibility of the european union. the european union is lacking in speed, in responsiveness and in control. the expectations for the current european council are too high, because we should finally reassure the citizens, we should reassure honest market participants, and we should finally take action against the speculative capital that is constantly attacking the euro area. we should find lasting solutions to the eurozone debt crisis. first, the measures of the euro plus pact must be incorporated into the community legal order. secondly, the resources of the european financial stability facility should be increased. thirdly, the introduction of eurobonds must be made as soon as possible. and fourthly, and finally, restoring budgetary discipline is necessary, but it is not sufficient. we need investment in europe that creates jobs!
in writing. – as i said before, we are facing our most serious crisis so far. it is clear that we need serious reflection and analysis of the situation from an economic point of view. as a politician, i would like to add my thoughts to the debate: we need four things – four ‘mores’. we need more democracy, because all our actions should be based on democratic legitimacy. this is the starting point. we need more europe, because in times of crisis we should stick together and fight for a common solution. it will not help if we are self-absorbed. we need more equality, because that helps cooperation and our society needs it badly. and last but not least, we need more women in decision-making positions, because their expertise and problem-solving skills cannot be neglected. we cannot afford to exclude 50% of the population from the decision-making process.
my fellow members of parliament! i am very sorry that we cannot separate the case of bulgaria and romania. i would just like to speak about romania's accession to schengen. i have a double feeling about joining the schengen area. after all, it is in the interests of both the transylvanian hungarians and hungary that the current borders of the country should be erased as much as possible. it would also abolish the unjust borders of trianon that were forced on hungary. but i also understand the dutch and the finns from the point of view of looking at crime statistics. it's not a complicated operation, it's not fiction, it's reality. these crime statistics show that romania is not currently ready to join schengen. and so, schengen is an extension, a legal extension of a country. i cannot support romania's accession to the schengen area as long as the question of szekler's territorial self-determination or the autonomy of the hungarians in mýrdal remains unresolved.
a recent survey by the european youth parliament found that a large proportion of young europeans, 89% of those polled, voted for free movement within the european union as the most important issue. this survey also showed that young people in romania and bulgaria are the largest supporters of free movement. they are the ones who are being deprived of the freedom of movement guaranteed by schengen. in other words, they are the ones who, although they have been eu citizens for four and a half years now, are still unable to enjoy this, one of the most important achievements of the union, even though their country meets the schengen requirements. member states may not change the rules of the game in the course of the game. the union has made so many mistakes in applying double standards that it is very difficult for it to correct them, and i am thinking here of the copenhagen criteria. so the most important message is what we have said so many times and it must be emphasized again, that there can be no double standards - this time against romania and bulgaria. and that is something that the two remaining member states must understand.
there is no doubt that the european union is in a debt crisis and the schengen system is in a crisis. but this debate is not about the crisis of the schengen system, it is about the crisis of european solidarity. in particular, it has been seven years since we joined the union. ten countries have been included and there are still first-class and second-class member states. it is unacceptable that there is no equal treatment in the union. no one who supports the schengen membership of romania and bulgaria is asking for special treatment for these countries. we are asking for equal treatment, because these countries have fulfilled the basic schengen conditions approved by both parliament and the council this summer. that's why i'm calling on the finnish and dutch populists to abandon their policies. there should be no obstacle to the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen.
in writing. after the eurozone crisis, the eu is on the verge of a second crisis - the schengen zone. two member states are blocking the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area in the inter-member state council. this also threatens the eu's credibility and legal certainty: there can be no double standards! schengen accession is also a matter of trust: should a country be entrusted with the protection of the eu's external borders when it meets all the criteria set out in all assessments? the answer is yes! the obstacles to the accession of bulgaria and romania are based on hidden considerations and interests, which further undermine public confidence. the delay in the schengen enlargement is increasing the frustration of the bulgarian and romanian eu citizens. the main victims of despair are disadvantaged communities, who are treated as scapegoats for delaying the decision on schengen membership. if there is one thing the european union really does not need in the midst of a crisis, it is the growth of mistrust and resentment among its member states. we must make a clear commitment to the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen and to the early introduction of the appropriate schengen evaluation system.
in writing. i am deeply concerned about the situation in bahrain and yemen. the series of unrest in bahrain and the violent response of the riot police are disturbing. there are reports of a large number of injuries, deaths of minors in the news, which is unacceptable to me. in yemen, i feel the very strong terrorist threat is the biggest problem that is not being addressed by the moves to govern the country. i urge the european union to take diplomatic action to resolve the situation as soon as possible.
i'm not going to tell you. my fellow citizens! the current ukrainian leadership has unjustifiably and politically motivatedly initiated legal proceedings against yulia tymoshenko. this is unacceptable! this threatens both ukraine's rapprochement with europe and russia-ukraine relations. it's highly controversial to try and convict a former head of government for making economic, political decisions. of course, the truth must be found out. in the elections, voters have already passed a verdict on tymoshenko once, when he was no longer prime minister. all that has happened and is happening in ukraine in this regard is unacceptable. however, i should like to draw mrs ashton's attention to the fact that there is an eu country where a conceptual lawsuit has also been launched against former prime minister ferenc gyurcsány in hungary. this member state is unfortunately my home. where, as in ukraine last year, the re-politicization of the judiciary has also begun. this is unacceptable both within the european union and in its immediate neighbourhood.
the processes that have begun in ukraine in the recent period are more than disturbing. and in this regard, we need to talk not only about the doubts surrounding timoshenko, but we need to talk about the immense corruption that exists in ukraine. we need to talk about how they want to eliminate not only timoshenko, but the entire opposition. and of course, we have to talk about the oppression of minorities in ukraine. among them, the transcarpathian hungarians, whose most sacred monument, the homeland-taking monument on vereckei pass, the homeland-taking monument has been desecrated several times this year. i would like to reject the simply ridiculous comparison between my colleague, mr tabajdi, and mr swoboda, who compared mr gyurcsány to mr timoshenko. don't confuse red with the wolf. gyurcsány is a failed dictator. timoshenko would never have fired on his own people. tymoshenko would never have called on ukrainians to vote against the citizenship of ukrainians across the border. and timoshenko never won an election by lying.
a year and a half ago, the european parliament adopted its resolution banning cyanide mining technologies, by a huge 488 to 48 vote. in that decision, the european parliament called on the commission to present its proposal for a decision by the end of 2011 - that is, by the end of this year. it's the middle of october, and there's nothing. no motion has yet been introduced in the house. we need to ask two questions. the first question is: when does the commission intend to present the proposal? the second question is: will the commission accept full political, moral and financial responsibility if, as a result of delay, another environmental disaster occurs anywhere in europe?
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, we all remember that a few years ago, six or seven years ago, in vojvodina, which is now part of serbia, there were mass beatings of hungarians by extremist serbs. and it seemed that this period might be over, but this year, unfortunately, there was a renewal of threats, clearly aimed at changing the ethnic ratios violently. they write on walls, they beat young people and they write on walls that hungarians should flee serbia, that is not their home. much more serious than that, the serbian state has also raised hungarian hatred to a state level and has introduced a collectivizing, collective criminalization, incitement law that currently deals with compensation and excludes both hungarians and swabians from the circle of people who can live with compensation. i very much hope that the european union will put an end to the double standards it has used so far and will finally protect not only sexual minorities, or not just when we are throwing crocodile lanterns when it comes to roma in italy or france, but also when such anti-democratic, dictatorial, discriminatory laws are enacted in a country that is currently waiting to join.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in the european union, the involvement of the social partners in legislation is a basic norm. while the austerity policy is striking workers across europe, including in hungary, the hungarian government has gone further: it has attacked workers' rights. the preparations for the new hungarian labour law are being carried out behind the scenes in an opaque manner, without formal consultation with the social partners, which is contrary to european standards. it is typical that the european social partners can draft the eu working time directive. i ask the european commission to put pressure on the hungarian government to take into account the basic european standards and respect the fundamental rights of hungarian workers when amending the labour code.
i would like to say a few words about the european commission's report on serbia, which was published today. the report lacks one of the most problematic elements of the belgrade asset restitution law passed in september. the law of particular importance contains a provision on restitution which seems to confirm the principle of collective guilt, collective responsibility, instead of individual responsibility. and as we know, the cornerstone of european justice is individual responsibility. this fact seems to have escaped the commission's attention. the law does not apply to persons and their heirs who took part in the second world war as members of the occupying forces stationed in the territory of serbia, irrespective of whether any individual responsibility can be established in their case. this is how almost the entire hungarian minority in the past, who were drafted against their will, were forced to leave. this article of the law gives serbia a bad image and will certainly make it difficult for it to obtain candidate status, but it also calls into question the commission's position.
my dear officer! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent work, for he has developed an element of economic policy which, without harmonisation, without a minimum of coordination, is unthinkable in a well-functioning competitive european union economy. when vat was introduced 40 years ago, it was in line with the needs of the economy. however, since then, many modifications, so-called modernizations, have been made to it, which have made it more and more complex. it imposed unnecessary burdens on taxpayers, tax authorities and was also an obstacle to the integrated european union market. he had many weaknesses that made him vulnerable. it was the basis for tax evasion and tax avoidance, which resulted in a very significant loss of tax revenue, hundreds of billions of dollars. but the other side of it is that vat is a very important source of revenue for the budget, because it allows us to finance the supply systems. i would also like to say that we need exceptions and we need exemptions, but we must think very carefully about the areas in which we grant exemptions and we grant exceptions, because they cannot distort competition in the future. i welcome the reinforcement of the anti-fraud measures in the report and the simplification of administration. at the same time, i support and consider it important to ensure transparency and traceability in the system, especially in the case of cross-border activities. however, i also think it is important to note that it would be good to forget about the categories within the border and within the european union. these categories are the very barriers to the european union's internal integrated market. i also find data warehouse models useful. i propose to introduce what has already been proven in member states and which actually leads to a budgetary surplus. once again, i congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for accepting my amendments.
my fellow members of parliament! jobbik representatives have spoken here many times against the centralization of the european union, against its centralization. but we are dealing with a typical vat issue where harmonisation is the only solution. it's a very bad message for the people of europe that we are carrying the burdens together into this union, but the welfare measures are already being shared. well, look at what wages are in eastern europe, western europe. and not only is there such a social difference, but even in eastern europe the general sales tax can almost be said to be several times or several percent higher than the general sales taxes or value added tax in western europe. in hungary, for example, a record-breaking outbreak of absinthe was predicted. the government will cut the vat rate to a record 27% in hungary, which will mean unprecedented cuts for the people. and considering that wages are fractions of what they are in western european countries. it is time for the european union to intervene and not allow such restrictions. the european union should not only look at various abstract issues, but also at the well-being of the european population.
of course, we must be cautious and act on us protectionist initiatives. but i also want to talk about another aspect of this american job creation package, which is that it's going in a radically different direction than the current leaders of europe. and this is something that we should pay attention to and take into account when we think about european plans. while it's not going to be passed by congress, we're interested in the many proposals in this package, like infrastructure investments that create jobs, cutting taxes on employment, investing in education -- which is based on the same recognition that we've emphasized a lot -- that without education, there really is no economic recovery -- helping to preserve public sector jobs, supporting public sector jobs, extending unemployment benefits -- we know that many people in america will be out of unemployment benefits in the near future -- reducing long-term unemployment through a variety of means. and this package is based on the recognition that there is no better response to the deficit than economic growth, job creation and support for education. this is a lesson that we, the leaders of europe, should learn. europe's decisions have been delayed, they have been weak. they have exacerbated and prolonged the crisis rather than actually alleviating it. the next european council will be historic. and the real question is whether a european plan for investment and growth is emerging, or at least whether we can see the outlines of it in the near future.
the rapporteur. - my fellow members! it has been said many times in the european parliament that there are some 80 million people with disabilities in the european union. this huge social group has not received much attention, much care from policy makers. these are unfortunate facts, and the european parliament has drawn attention to them on many occasions. i think we have now reached a turning point in the history of the european union. the spanish, belgian and hungarian presidencies, together with the european commission, have made disability a priority, finding many links with different policies. i'd like to point out that this is a long time coming. so it's a great honor for me to be able to record this report as a representative of the deaf. i'm honored to have the full cooperation and assistance of the shadow reporters in this enormous undertaking. and i'm honored that about 400 amendments were submitted, and opinions were received from three other committees. these amending opinions resulted in the full, final text of the report. i was guided by one objective in writing this report: to take a position that was realistic and achievable during the economic crisis and that was tangible to people with disabilities, to reflect the european parliament's deep commitment to the situation of people with disabilities, to improve their situation and to call for active action by the european commission as well. among the many proposals, i would like to highlight two: one is a key element of the strategy proposed by the european commission the european accessibility act , which the report expects a lot from, as we expect a mechanism that can be clearly verified, and we also expect progress in the area of information communication accessibility. on the other hand, it is redefining the role of the european parliament, which we emphasise, so that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has a prominent role in parliament. we expect a lot from the proposal which calls for the creation of a so-called european disability committee. and i would like to emphasize that much of this report is based on compromise. various proposals were received, and the most promising parts were compiled. this has enabled the report to include various tools or other forward-looking elements, such as the recognition of sign languages. i would urge the european commission and the governments of the member states to be proactive and to enable people with disabilities to be integrated into society as soon as possible, to become active members of the european union. that would be a huge opportunity for 80 million people. and one thing is certain: since the lisbon treaty, people with disabilities are no longer second-class citizens on paper, but it is time to make that reality, that all citizens are equal.
i support the report of adam the bald. i think it is particularly important to reduce the impact of the crisis and to pay special attention to those who are having more difficulty integrating into society than others in these times. the eu 2020 strategy also places a high priority on inclusive growth, and we have a responsibility here too. this requires that people with different disabilities can participate in education, employment, access to various basic services and goods, and we must create an environment that allows them to live independently. the freedom drive delegation was here recently and in their conversation with the european parliament they expressed this wish and handed over their petition. an important requirement of this report is that the council should move forward within a deadline to adopt a horizontal anti-discrimination directive, which also creates equal opportunities in all areas of life. i would like to draw attention to the issue of people with psychosocial disabilities, whose representation in all member states is weaker than that of other groups of people with disabilities. they should have a say in public affairs, they should be supported in decision-making. the principle of 'nothing about us without us' must apply to all issues, including the allocation of eu resources and the principle of integration.
the rapporteur. − i am grateful to all my colleagues for their comments, because they have all pointed to the urgent need for action and have given me further confirmation that the time has come to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. we can't wait any longer, whether it's education, job creation or access. legislative initiatives and programmes are needed that are clear and feasible, controllable and punishable, both at eu and national level. and i would like to show you another aspect: the job creation target of the eu 2020 strategy cannot be achieved without people with disabilities, and only with their inclusion can the 75% level be reached. the u.s. government has calculated that it costs no more than $500 -- the price of an iphone -- to create jobs for people with disabilities. that is why i am deeply committed to and consider important the commission's proposal for a european access package next year to make progress on the issue of non-discrimination. i thank all my fellow congressmen once again for their honorable cooperation. i have learned a lot in the last six months and i am convinced that this report has made the european parliament even more committed to people with disabilities.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague adam kósa on his report and welcome the fact that he places great emphasis on improving the situation of women with disabilities, as both surveys and everyday experience show that they face the most serious disadvantages in their lives. the current eu directives mention but do not precisely define the phenomenon of multiple discrimination and are not well suited to effectively combating it. disability-based exclusion also affects women in another way: they are generally responsible for the disabled and dependants, and thus are cumulatively affected by the decline in public care services. women and girls with disabilities are also at a much higher risk of being abused, neglected, and humiliated in the evening, and are three times more likely to be victims of violence. moreover, women with disabilities have statistically significantly lower levels of education than men with disabilities or even healthy women. access to information and communication technologies, which are usually the primary means of integrating disabled people, are of paramount importance in this regard. on average, one in three to four people with disabilities in the eu is employed, but many member states fall far short of this average. support is needed to help them enter and stay in the labour market, and governments should work with employers and ngos to develop incentives to promote the employment of people with disabilities.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good job that has resulted in a balanced report. however, i would like to stress that better regulation requires, first and foremost, greater legal certainty for the parties concerned. if we think that the complex interplay of european legislation and national transposition has resulted in a simpler procurement procedure, we are wrong. in fact, it has resulted in higher costs, longer procedures and more work for legal counsel. i therefore consider it necessary to coordinate the appeal and procurement procedures and, as the commissioner has mentioned, to take account of the full life-cycle cost. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to abandon the minimum price requirement and to abolish the excessive guarantees and safeguards which place a greater burden on smes.
in writing. i joined the green paper debate on the modernisation of eu public procurement policy as a shadow rapporteur for the people's party in the environment committee. i am pleased to say that there was broad agreement in our committee that by encouraging the wider use of environmentally friendly so-called 'green public procurement', we can make real progress towards a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy. in view of all this, i believe that in future public procurement, rules on sustainability should be given greater emphasis. one of the main means of doing this is to end the monopoly of the lowest price for the award criteria and to create instead the possibility of selecting the most economically advantageous tender, taking into account the full life-cycle cost of the services and the environmental benefits. the report rightly points out that, of course, for all this to be practical, it is also necessary for the commission to develop a methodology widely available to contracting authorities for the voluntary and rapid calculation of life-cycle costs. as a shadow opinion-giver, another important aspect for me was to increase the participation of smes in green public procurement. the opinion of the committee on the environment therefore recommends that, where the product or service advertised for procurement is also available locally, the proximity principle should be used to maintain the procedure for local smes, thereby reducing the environmental impact of the procurement, such as co2 emissions from transport. the same objective is to reduce administrative burdens and to establish clear and transparent standards at the level of directives.
mr. president, mr. officer, i have to go. today's questions to the commission on the small business package show that we still have a lot of work to do to ensure that this european business community can actually operate in a growth-friendly market environment. the economic crisis has actually hit this business class hardest, in the sense that it has further reduced their already limited funding opportunities, precisely in the business class that we call start-ups or innovative businesses. in my view, the recovery of the european union from the economic crisis depends largely on how we can position the group of enterprises, which accounts for 99% of enterprises - what we call smes - how we can make better use of the tools that allow them to operate smoothly. for example, i support the sme test, i support simplifying administrative procedures.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, hungarian shoppers are seeing a bleak picture because what they are seeing and experiencing is extremely distressing. what the customers see is that the place where they used to go to buy their daily bread in the public square is closing down overnight. and the corner butcher and the clothing store. in hungary and eastern europe, it is common for small and medium-sized enterprises to go bankrupt one after another. but taxpayer-funded multinational corporations are thriving. every weekend, they become almost sacred halls, draining customers from the family businesses. that is why i think it is urgent that the eu focuses on small and medium-sized enterprises while they still exist, rather than on tax breaks for multinational companies. the eu would be obliged to give special priority to family businesses, which jobbik sees as a way out of the crisis. priority support for family businesses would have positive effects not only economically but also socially. thank you for your attention.
thank you for your time, mr. president. 55 years since the hungarian people rose up against the oppressive soviet rule. the 1956 revolution is still today an example of heroism and an indestructible desire for freedom. the heroes of that time not only gave their blood for their own country, therefore october 23 is not only a hungarian but also a european holiday. on this uplifting anniversary, we have a duty to ask: is the eu doing everything it can to ensure the success of today's freedom movements? the iron curtain has already fallen, but in our immediate neighbourhood millions are fighting for the right to self-determination, just think of belarus or the arab spring. we cannot allow internal problems to make the eu incapable of helping democratic movements. the crisis cannot lead to indifference. the neighbourhood policy, based on the principle of democracy, should therefore be appropriately funded in the next long-term budget. the revolution of '56 is a testament to the fact that freedom can never be taken for granted.
in writing. the implementation of the services directive is a major step towards a better functioning of the single market for services. but i think there's more to be done. the main findings of the peer review show that the commission needs to take further steps to enable the european economy to exploit the full potential of the single market for services. in order to provide a realistic and useful overview of the functioning of the internal market for services, other union instruments than the services directive should also be taken into account. the commission's approach is welcome, and will not be an abstract assessment of performance, but will be based on specific sectors and activities that illustrate how the single market works and where problems remain. given that constraints in the services sector and the legislative instruments applicable to them are often of a global nature, performance evaluation is also useful for identifying issues of a horizontal nature. it should be emphasised that the performance evaluation should in all cases allow for the formulation of sector-specific conclusions on the functioning of the single market for services and, where appropriate, identify the need for other actions, including legislative intervention where necessary. in closing, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for his thorough work and his openness. i think this work has resulted in a great report.
my dear officer. the topic of economic governance is a hot topic these days. however, in order to speak of the global nature of economic governance and to deliver results at the forthcoming g20 summit, it is important to be aware of its european dimension and its risks. although the european council has discussed and will discuss very pressing issues, unfortunately it seems to be doing so very slowly. the failure to resolve the greek situation for months now could pose further risks to the euro and to the union. we have accepted the six-pack, but that is not enough to make progress. in this context, it is welcome that this report goes further and calls for global cooperation on financial supervision or even talks about more effective macroeconomic policies. however, it must also be seen that unless europe can put the common economic policy in order, restore the stability of the euro and the confidence of investors, it is useless to expect the next world economic summit to produce results.
in writing. the debate on global economic governance has come too late, as the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2007 has shown. since the early 2000s, economic and financial regulation has not kept pace with developments in the financial sector. national regulators tried to control global financial processes, and this was accompanied by a system of banking supervision that left it to speculators to follow the rules. international economic management organizations such as the imf and the world bank suffer from a serious lack of legitimacy. their structure does not reflect the realities of the world economy, the increased role of emerging economies, especially the bric countries. the g20 has not yet been able to transform itself into a truly gender-balanced, legally binding decision-making body. the european union has recently taken important steps towards a more forward-looking approach to financial processes. the financial transaction tax would make financial transactions more transparent and controllable, and ensure that the financial sector plays a greater role in mitigating the effects of the crisis, while avoiding excessive anti-bank measures that could impede growth. the european union should seek to convince the major players in the world economy at the g20 summit in november that stronger and more effective solutions, prevention rather than reparation, are needed to kick-start economic growth, job creation and a fairer sharing of the burden of the crisis. the above solutions can be considered as a good starting point for the establishment of a global economic governance system.
thank you, madam president. the first year of the european semester shows clearly that member states are trying to change the commission's wording. why would you do that? you just want to lighten it? i don't think he did. today, the governments of all member states feel a sense of responsibility, and we can see that the crisis is not selective, it affects the small but also the big. so what's the problem? is that a bad idea? no, i think the problem is execution. i read all the standard assessments: pensions, structural reform, fiscal austerity, everywhere and everywhere alike, and paper mountains. just this semester? is that what we wanted? even the best approach is useless if the designer, the executor and the controller cannot find common ground. i would like to think that member states do not make the easing for their own sake, but because it is a clear and simple formula, they cannot do more in a crisis period, they have no other options: debt problems, budgetary problems or economic slowdown. so i ask the commission: are you prepared to come up with a proposal in which you can pass on best practice in the future, not in a static environment, of course, but in a dynamic, crisis-ridden environment? the european semester's economic coordination role can only be effective if it operates on a consensus basis along the lines of commonly defined values and objectives, with a decisive, prominent role for the european parliament, the only institution capable of exercising independent democratic control over both the commission and the member states.
today's debate is like the horse at the college of veterinary medicine, where one horse can be shown all the diseases in the animal kingdom. there is a suitable instrument - and i fully agree with gállné pelcz ildikó - namely that the financial semester is an excellent economic instrument to force member states to adopt responsible policies. however, the european commission does not provide credible information to the european parliament. the european commission could see that we, the parliament, could be an ally for the european commission in the control of the member states. the democratic control is also needed - and i fully agree with the initiators - because there is no guarantee that there will be adequate debate on this issue in national parliaments. i would ask mr dalli to summarize the discussions in the national parliaments on the implementation of the financial year.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, my dear officer. first of all, i would like to welcome the report by my colleague, regina bastos. we're in the middle of a timely and important document. you have this feeling that when you have a problem - and we hear a lot of "big problem" these days - that maybe you learn faster. recently, when we started discussing the 2020 strategy, we came to the conclusion that much more rigorous and closer cooperation is needed both in the area of financial processes and in the area of the economy. social and employment policies - which are, of course, part of the catalogue of social rights in the union's system - are also currently experiencing a serious crisis, and we have come to the conclusion that we must work much more closely together, think much more together and make a joint effort to improve and change the alarming figures that many have recently cited. of course, we all support the commission's initiative on new skills, new jobs, and so does the rapporteur. we agree that the european labour market needs to be reformed, that it needs to be made more flexible, that it needs to be made more efficient, and we agree that one of the problems with our european labour market is that it is structurally strained. at the same time, there is significant and painful unemployment, and at the same time there are a lot of people in this labour market or around this who are not equipped with the right skills, skills, and needs are changing very quickly. those who have abilities quickly become obsolete. so the commission is right to list the things to do what we can do as a community from the job placement system to the skills catalogue. there are a lot of useful initiatives that are pointing in this direction. at the same time, we must draw attention, and our colleague rightly draws attention, to the fact that while we are trying to overcome the financial crisis, the second wave of the economic crisis, we must not forget that it is not right, and it is not good, to start cutting, for example, the cost of training, education, to start cutting back, because that is exactly how we will lose the opportunities for the future. i would mention two elements which we consider particularly important. the report may change the focus of the commission's presentation on support for smes and it makes more nuanced and detailed proposals on flexicurity, and we are of course ready to cooperate with the commission in this area in the future, as we see the world of atypical work as an opportunity for the future.
the member states now have to consolidate their public finances, invest in parallel in education, training, research and development, job creation, and at european union level, exploit the opportunities offered by the common market, including progress in the field of mutual recognition of diplomas, and actually implement the services directive. new skills and continuous training are also needed if the economy is to develop without creating more jobs. often, training must begin in early childhood, training-development, so that the initial starting inequalities are not preserved. oecd research shows that investment in education and training pays off: highly educated people pay more taxes, government revenues exceed expenditures, and highly educated people have higher employment rates. but we also need to pay particular attention to those who are most excluded from the labour market today, whether because of their disability, ethnicity, marital status, age or other reasons. they cannot be excluded from the labour market either, and inclusion in employment is the basis for sustainable development. unemployment is particularly dangerous for young people, whose entire future career may be affected. the rules for the use of the european social fund will have to be designed to reach the target groups of each flagship programme: the poor, the young, the roma, and this will be the most important tool in their hands in the next budget period.
mr president, i would like to thank the minister for the update. i wish he had better news. every part of the draft directive is equally important. however, i think that we have to look at a broader perspective here for a moment because it seems to me that we cannot see the wood for the trees. we need these directives – yes, we do need them – for our children’s health and for the inclusion of women in the labour market, so that more children are born. we simply do not have a choice in this matter, given the problem of an ageing society. is the time perfect? no it is not. will it get better? no it will not. if we want to act, there is no time like the present. our rapporteur has shown that she intends to be flexible but, given our institutional system, we have to meet the council half way. i appreciate the willingness of the polish presidency in at least having put the issue on the table again, but now the task will go to the upcoming danish presidency. i am confident that, by having a progressive approach, a country with a female prime minister has what it takes to move this dossier out of the pit it seems to be in.
the rapporteur is the committee on regional development. - minister, officer, the house! the members of the committee on regional development have welcomed the decisions taken by the committee on budgets and ask the house not to change them in any substantial way during the vote. we are therefore not in dispute with each other, but with the council, particularly as regards the payment appropriations for development funds. we consider it unacceptable that we are stopping the development of the backward regions. the commissioner also said that the commission's proposal includes cuts of 9 billion. we at the regional development commission didn't get into that fight to start a bargaining process. we thought it would be useful and necessary for the council to accept the commission's wisdom in this respect. this requires a willingness to compromise in conciliation negotiations, and only ministers with the political will to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, timing is everything. we are holding our debate on the budget when the leaders of europe are trying to resolve the eurozone crisis in brussels. they are using the intergovernmental method and are keen on maintaining their primacy and supremacy in shaping european affairs. is anybody paying attention to our debate here? the draft budget fails to take into consideration the hard political realities of europe. there are two aspects to it. first, the parliament does not seem to have learned the lessons of the trialogue from last year. despite stern warnings, there are futile attempts again to increase payment appropriations by almost 5%. does the parliament wish to suffer another humiliating defeat at the hands of the european council in late december? second, to insist on an increase of more than 4% in commitment and almost 5% in payment appropriations is flying in the face of european public opinion in times of severe austerity in most member states and extreme austerity in some of them. it is a blatant disregard of the hardship suffered by the taxpayer when the countries in crisis need to cut back on spending and the donor countries are being asked to dole out ever-growing transfers. can we live in an ivory tower when the european taxpayer is being asked in brussels to cough up hundreds of billions of euros in order to save, not only the eurozone, but the whole european project? the ecr supports investment in the future, but prudent budgeting would require commensurate cuts in other items whenever there is a significant increase in clearly-defined priority areas. while the parliament’s draft resolution blames the council for cuts in several hundreds of budget lines, the parliament represents the other extreme, proposing increases without significant cuts elsewhere. the only positive sign on the horizon is the fernandes report, which is to be commended for foreseeing long-overdue cuts in spending on translation and interpretation, freezing general expenses, travel costs, etc. the ecr group would support all these amendments and call for further savings in due course.
i would like to congratulate both mrs balzani and mr bütikofer, who was the rapporteur on the committee on industry. i would like to make three brief points: one, that we may not have more money, but we certainly need more europe, a stronger internal market, more solidarity, more regional support and more growth. my second thought is that the eu budget is not a cost, but an investment. it is an investment in the future, an investment in the economies of the member states. this is the only way to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this can create new jobs in the european union, this is the real fight against poverty. the european parliament will certainly insist on a clash between the council and the european parliament to achieve this. we will not enter into a deal that jeopardises our common policy, our 2020 goals.
deputising for ivailo kalfin, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, first of all i would like to apologise as mr kalfin, who is our rapporteur, cannot be here, and i have to share with you his opinion, or rather our opinion in the committee on industry, research and energy. as you said, commissioner, innovation research is directly affected by several elements of the budget: the mff, the financial regulation and the annual budget. so we have to find the proper balance between the principles of financial accountability, flexibility and beneficiaries which has the greatest impact on research and development. unfortunately, the overriding interpretation of the financial regulation in recent years has created a culture of risk avoidance and a zero trust attitude towards our participants in the research programme, which has resulted in a reduction in efficiency vis-à-vis research and innovation. therefore the industry committee proposes the following polices: we need simplification, simplification, simplification, facilitation of access to grants with the aim of a greater impact on final research programmes and a specialised approach towards a tolerable risk of error rate for research and innovation. we also call for the abolishment of the timesheet mechanism and for new perspectives for financing the new eu financial instruments and private public partnerships. alongside these main requests, we have the aim of achieving more innovation, more research and development, which is the cornerstone if we want to have a more successful europe in future.
on behalf of the s&d group. i too welcome the commission's draft directive and the report. sexual harassment of children, sexual abuse of young people has been increasingly perpetrated through new technologies. the amount of child pornography available online is very high, even if it is short-lived. a growing number of elementary school students are also being reached online, via mobile phones, or even in person. in february 2011, the committee on civil rights called for the removal of online material containing child pornography from the internet and for concrete steps to be taken to protect, assist and support young victims, as well as to develop educational programmes to help them if they become victims. we really need to make sure that victims have access to basic rights, to remedies, without being exposed to the trauma of being involved in the process. many, nearly 200,000 russian and eastern european women and children are forced into prostitution each year. the number of people in the most vulnerable groups is not decreasing, but is increasing as poverty increases. i have also drawn attention to this on the website of the european women's lobby and i would like to stress in this debate that we share a responsibility to protect children.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a mother of four, i am delighted that we are finally taking action at eu level against this lowest form of crime, which continues to victimize and endanger all our children, as it penetrates the most secure childrens' rooms through the world of the internet. i would like to thank commissioner malmström for taking the initiative, the hungarian presidency for bringing the negotiations on this important directive to a near success by closing the substantive issues, and i would like to congratulate the polish presidency for putting the dot on the i after a multiannual process. but i would like to thank my colleague, angelilli, for her excellent and persistent work. i can only hope that member states will start transposing the directive into national law without delay. however, we all know that the implementation of the current directive will not lead to the total elimination of child pornography. therefore, any initiative that targets illegal pedophile content sites, tracks down the persons or organisations behind them, who directly or indirectly, by providing the servers, support this type of crime, has its place. on the other hand, i would like to emphasize once again the importance of modern technology in raising awareness of the dangers that lie in wait for children, educators and families. i stress that the education within the family, the protection is irreplaceable. we can't sit back, the fight goes on. i just think about the emergence of new technologies that are constantly changing. child safety must remain a central issue in all eu member states. we have to keep looking after our children.
we have long wanted to move forward with the adoption of the refugee package, and this has been made all the more urgent by the arab spring and the wave of migration that has followed. while accelerating the adoption of the asylum package would have been the right response, the wrong responses were born with the reintroduction of temporary border controls, restrictions on free movement, and a poorly tested europe in solidarity. in this light, the report before us is particularly important. we know that the draft report has been the subject of difficult debates, both within parliament and within the european institutions. if we can accept the conditions for eligibility for international protection, it is a big step forward in the area of the common european asylum and migration policy, and it helps us to stick to our values and principles, to protect those who would be persecuted in their own country, and to guarantee the rights of those who seek our help as refugees. this protection includes an integrated approach to immigration, education, social policy and labour issues that support integration into society. the directive is a good basis for this too.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 27 october 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted in the annex to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing of passenger name record (pnr) data and on their transfer by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection service (a7-0364/2011) by sophia in 't veld on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (civil liberties committee) (a7-0364/2011)
this report proves to me that if we make an effort to understand and respect each other's positions and to find common solutions, a balanced parliamentary resolution and a good agreement can be achieved. one thing i would mention, which is perhaps beyond the specific reporting - but which seems to have fallen into the background of our conversations these days - is the aspect of reciprocity, which is not just giving data, but also receiving passenger traffic data from our partners. this is obviously a very controversial issue, and it concerns the creation of the eu's own pnr. i'm aware that there are very different opinions on this. those who fear it, reject it, those who fear it will give even more scope for the violation of personality rights. but i think that if one stands up as an equal party within the federal system, in full respect and respect for the relationship with one's allies, and equality is a condition of reciprocity, then perhaps one is in a stronger position even in the area of human rights guarantees. it is no coincidence, for example, that in defence policy too the idea is now being formed more and more strongly that somehow the european entity must be defined more strongly, must be strengthened within the federal system, of course. so i think that in the same way that this report was done, with consensus building, but we should also accelerate thinking about the eu's own pnr. moreover, if the commission were to decide to do so and parliament voted to set up such an autonomous pnr system, there would be a lot of work to do, which obviously cannot be enumerated for lack of time. i would be very interested to hear the commissioner's opinion on this, but we certainly need to set up the organisational framework for this, but it would probably also be of great help to the member states if the requests for data were not made only on a bilateral basis.
despite the reservations and concerns expressed here, it is likely that tomorrow the european parliament will give its consent for the first time to a pnr agreement with the passenger name record file transfer more or less in line with the conditions set by parliament in 2010. we know it's hard to strike a balance between security and privacy. these criteria are nevertheless important and this draft recommendation contains a large number of them. there are still some unresolved issues, such as the long-term storage of data for 5 and a half years, but this agreement still provides citizens with access to appropriate remedies. indeed, data can only be collected and stored if it is necessary for the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and serious international crime, and close monitoring of the implementation of the agreement provides an additional guarantee that parliament can propose the suspension or termination of the agreement if necessary. such an agreement could serve as a reference point for further agreements with, for example, the usa, canada and countries that have approached the commission on this issue.
in our world of crisis, it is hard to overemphasize - as many of us here have done today - the importance of transparency. it is no coincidence that the ombudsman's report and mrs jotova's report both focus on the issue of transparency, which is a welcome and welcome one for citizens. to cope with the crisis, it is very important that they understand why what is happening around them and what thoughts are behind the institutional decisions. i believe that one of the most important elements of the ombudsman's mission is to never be one-sided, in other words to strike a balance between the citizen's need for transparency and, at the same time, the public interest in secrecy in other cases. why do i say that? because it creates a new situation in a certain sense, that with the establishment of the foreign service, the ombudsman's attention has also been drawn to questions of european security and defence policy, and this is an area where, in many cases, in addition to the legitimate demands for access to information, there are also actions that i would rather classify as political marketing and which, in some cases, may endanger our security. it is therefore extremely important that we finally establish clear standards for encryption, that we make this clear to people, because i believe that the ombudsman can also take a position on encryption with the necessary decisiveness and moral weight, where appropriate - as has already been shown - if the standards are clear. let me also mention that we can also consider ourselves representatives of the people. for example, in my work on security policy, i often find myself in situations where very important council documents are classified and i cannot read them. it would be very good to see the reasons for this clearly, and i would encourage the ombudsman to do so. let me end with a sentence from the report that goes like this: "openness is the goal, and encryption is the exception".
it was high time that the european council finally committed itself to a comprehensive approach to helping economies, particularly those hit by the debt crisis. there is no question that the 50% write-down of greek debt by the banks gives time and space for the greek economy to recover and to find new sources of funds. the second greek rescue package already reflects the principle that banks should also play their part in the crisis management. strengthening the esfs provides a safety net. it will very rightly help the member states in their difficult situation in the first place, and only in the second place - if certain conditions are met - the banks, who themselves will have to make the necessary adjustments. of course, there are still doubts and there are still details to be clarified. market feedback also shows this. but i would like to think that we are over the worst of it, and that this solution is also a stabilizing solution, not only for the countries that are struggling with the debt crisis, but for europe as a whole.
in writing. europe cannot emerge from the current crisis by itself if all efforts are made to put the economies of the eu member states on a growth path but the energy investment that goes with it is not realised. the reasonable harmonisation of european railways is essential for the further development of europe. however, i think it is extremely important to note that europe is not only in an economic crisis, but also a social and social crisis. this means that not only the european rail networks must be harmonised, but also the wages of railway employees must be brought to a level. we can only support this report on the assumption that this will improve the living conditions and existential situation of hungarian railway passengers. thank you for your attention.
i don't want to complain, but to share my joy with the honorable guests. in 2008, the european parliament awarded the first ever charlemagne youth prize to a hungarian foundation, the rákóczi foundation, which dates back to the early 1990s and invites young people from ukraine, slovakia, romania and serbia to spend about three weeks in hungary, learning about its history and human rights. and these young people, they don't just meet once in three weeks, but the friendships that they form, they have spontaneous after-meetings several times a year. this year, they showed that they know the european way of thinking, and in the year of volunteering, more than a hundred young people went to a small village in serbia and started to work and repaired the sports complex of this village, painted the seats and the fence. i think that the european idea can be both praised and acted upon. these kids set an example for us.
mr. president, i have to go. a recent report prepared and released by the united states secret service draws the attention of the united states congress to the growing dangers of government and industrial espionage. the internet has proven to multiply the opportunities and dangers of cyber espionage for economic and political gain, gaining increasing ground over traditional intelligence. it is a sad but true fact that europe has lagged behind the us, china and russia in cybersecurity for years, while russian intelligence, for example, has very sophisticated cyber tools. it would therefore be important to assess and define more clearly than ever in the eu's internal security strategy what capabilities we have to prevent such attacks. in the interests of prevention and defence, it is also necessary to provide europol with clear competences and capacities to combat cybercrime.
the rapporteur. - my dear officer dalli. my fellow officers. my report focuses primarily on bee health, but i also want to address other important challenges facing the sector. the european commission's directorate-general has produced an excellent communication, and i have based my report on it and tried to build on it. i would like the commission, the member states and the beekeeping sector to implement the many concrete proposals contained in this report. it's not primarily european honey production that's at stake. the beekeeping sector contributes to the whole of agriculture and to the conservation of biodiversity through pollination. in fact, 85% of crop production would not exist without the activities of bees and other pollinators. in other words, the beekeeping sector generates important environmental public goods, which is why we must support the beekeeping sector from community funds. the problem is that there hasn't been enough medicine for decades. big pharmaceutical companies are not interested enough in developing new medicines, but the beekeeping industry doesn't have enough money to support the development of new medicines. it's been a problem for decades. if we cannot make progress in this area with community resources, then this crisis in which european and global beekeeping is currently found will not be resolved. the other big problem is that this sector is not organized enough. there are no reliable data, no statistics on the bee health situation, not even on the number of bee hives, the number of families, so it would be very important at both member state and eu level to finally have reliable data. and a very big problem is the training of many of the beekeepers. it would be very important for member states to link beekeeping to some form of vocational training. i think it's very important, and this is the biggest debate, that we have about the impact of pesticides on bee health. there are some in this parliament who want to blame all the problems on pesticides, and i do not agree with that. others try to minimize it. i regret that certain forces have not allowed me to include in my report the pesticides which are particularly harmful and the active substances in these pesticides which could be replaced by active substances which are less harmful to bee health. these are neonicotinoid agents, and i will fight with my friends in the future who are environmentalists and bee protectors to get these agents out of pesticides as soon as possible. i would ask the commission to amend the honey directive because at present the quality parameters of honey are not sufficiently defined, so we cannot adequately tackle counterfeiters and counterfeiting of honey, and the quality problem of imported honey is also a problem. finally, as far as genetically modified, genetically engineered crops are concerned, there is a great deal of controversy about how harmful or not harmful they are. i would ask the european commission to make a credible, objective scientific study, because this is not an emotional issue, it is a scientific issue. no such study is currently available. as for antibiotics, i would ask the commissioner to regulate them at eu level. for example, there is a limit for antibiotic content in meat, even though we eat much more meat than honey. for honey, this is unregulated. it would be nice to have this on a community level. and finally, albert einstein once said, and i think that's an exaggeration, that if bees die out in the world, in four years, humanity dies out. even if it's a formula, now that we've seen the impact of beekeeping on food security and biodiversity, i think we should take the advice of albert einstein. thank you for your attention.
madam president! poverty is not just a social problem, it is a human rights problem, a violation of human dignity. the result is often stigma, discrimination. in many countries, we see the criminalization of poverty. he talks about the extreme crime of gypsies, homelessness, and even social workers who stand up for the poorest can be put on trial, as in hungary, if they act according to the ethical code of their profession. when examining national poverty reduction strategies, the commission should also monitor whether public policies serve this purpose, whether the tax system, the family support system reduce social disparities, contribute to reducing child poverty, whether the school system compensates for the disadvantages brought from home, prevent the generational transmission of poverty, whether social transfers guarantee the right to economic, political, cultural, social participation and access to universal services.
the report correctly states that people with disabilities have a poverty rate of 70 percent higher. this circle is also very vulnerable within society. there's no time to analyze the causes and solutions. i would like to highlight three aspects. the first is very important and correctly includes respect for the charter of fundamental rights. the second aspect - before i mention it, i would like to stress the importance of implementing the european union strategy and this must be strictly adhered to - the europe 2020 strategy. and i think both are important in that regard. thirdly, because there is another issue that seriously affects them from the point of view of disability, and that is the issue of dismantling barriers. without physical and communication access, there's no way to solve them. this is a very important issue in the european union and we need to solve it as soon as possible.
in writing. – even though the european union was designed to be an area of prosperity and progress, the europe of today is a continent of 80 million poor people for whom existential instability and inequality of opportunities are a daily experience. the reintegration of the unemployed and marginalised population can, however, release this dormant potential to revitalise the eu’s ailing economies. crisis management must not therefore overshadow but strengthen anti-poverty measures, since they are indispensable for ensuring the sustainable and inclusive growth enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy. in this light, i would like to welcome this report on this important flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy and the fact that it dedicates a whole section to the inclusion of roma, who are way over-represented among the poorest. equally important and mutually reinforcing with the europe 2020 national reform programmes are the national roma inclusion strategies, which are to be submitted to the commission by the end of this year, and i truly hope that despite any political upheaval or budgetary hardship in some of the member states, the commission will thoroughly evaluate the professional substantiation, complexity and financial feasibility of the national strategies, and that it will also present specific recommendations for their revision.
rapporteur. − madam president, according to rule 167 and rule 168(1), as the rapporteur on honeybee health and beekeeping, i would like to request a roll-call vote on the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by 40 members of the european parliament and also on the final vote on my report on the agri committee resolution.
in writing. − the economic and social impacts of demographic change are one of the key factors that must be reckoned with regarding the future prosperity of europe and the fulfilment of justice, human rights and freedom. marginalization and demographic dynamics often go hand in hand, as can most conspicuously be seen in the case of the roma. not only are they the continent’s far youngest minority with the lowest socio-economic status, but their communities can be characterized by reversed demographic trends compared to the majority population. hence, in most new member states, while there is a rapid ageing of the majority population, the proportion of roma is quickly increasing within the active age cohort, which carries the social security system on its shoulders. as a demographic gap opens up, so it is usually followed by the exacerbation of intra-regional disparities, further polarizing those micro-regions that are peripheral and declining and those that are dynamic and developing. the fact that there are areas which are lagging behind may hamper general social development and threaten to disrupt cohesion – not only in territorial terms, but also in social terms. their specific needs must therefore be targeted through an equivalent, complex and intensive programme based on a pan-european crisis map.
in writing. − i supported mrs westphal's own-initiative report because i believe that to stop demographic trends and encourage childbearing, we must give hope to the citizens of europe. the logical consequence of hopelessness, of economic hopelessness, is emigration, moving to regions that promise better futures. the depopulation of many european regions could be reversed by pursuing a targeted cohesion policy that takes account of differences within the region. we must therefore consider how sustainable planning based on a regional development indicator based solely on gdp is when the overall picture covers the poverty corners. europe needs to take better care of these micro-regions, helping them to integrate into the application systems and avoid red tape. this requires much more flexibility from the union. we need to focus on programs that make small-scale farming attractive again, that create jobs. however, i am convinced that cohesion policy is not the primary answer or solution to demographic issues.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted a resolution on bees today, which i myself supported. the whole of agriculture is threatened by the extinction of bees, the causes of which are not yet fully understood. the ep believes that more research should be devoted to the phenomenon than is currently the case, because without knowing the causes, the process cannot be stopped. the amount of money available is only 10 million euros, which has to be multiplied, because we don't even know if it's an infectious disease or environmental damage. but honey production has other problems. poor quality, sometimes counterfeit, honey is flooding the market. accurate designation of origin and strong quality control are needed to make beekeeping a profitable industry and to put this healthy food on the table of europeans. to this end, the targeted support of some 700 000 european beekeepers needs to be addressed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, on behalf of the epp group i would like to share some thoughts about the new commission work programme. my colleagues will go into detail, but i would just like to welcome the commission’s proposals for 2012, especially as we cannot ignore that europe is in deep crisis. the engines of the european recovery should be the european parliament and the commission together, in cooperation with the other institutions. i notice with confidence and with satisfaction that the test which the commission applied in the past towards different legislation is basically about better and new measures and whether new legislation is really contributing to growth and job creation. this will also be the test from my group’s point of view; whether any kind of measure we discuss in parliament or the different forums of the european union in the framework of legislation really contributes to this kind of general goal and whether it creates jobs. this is the general test we are applying to everything. i hope the commission will agree with us on this. i would like to make another point on the procedure itself. we have been having this general discussion on the commission work programme year by year. now we are in a new procedure, but we do not see very much difference. very often we see that a part which we adopted the previous year does not show up in the programme for the following year. we have to improve this process, because it is parliament’s very important prerogative to influence what is going on at legislation level because we do not have the right of initiative. this is why it is of special importance for us to see the results. in my specific area, comitology, we are still awaiting the application from last year’s work programme to the acquis according to the new comitology procedure. we did not see much this year except in the international trade issues, but we would like to see the programme reflected in the daily work of the different institutions. we asked the commission to move closer to this general goal. we, in the ppe group, will support you as you apply this test on how to create a better economic environment and on how to create jobs and growth in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. chairman of the committee. as coordinator of the employment committee, i naturally welcome the commission's work programme. i can't really do much about it, because the themes that we find in it were already spoken about last year, and we welcomed them last year. i have to say that we agree that we should focus on jobs and growth. we also agree that we need to work faster and more efficiently. however, my colleagues have authorised me to tell you that we are very dissatisfied with the commission's pace of work. let me give you a few examples. we were waiting for the dispatch directive for january this year. they promised a working time policy for the third quarter of this year. okay, i know, they're talking to the social partners. if they cannot agree, we expect them to come forward with a proposal immediately. the third amendment expired last week, the pension white paper, and now we're supposed to get something for christmas. i'm not sure that's gonna happen. the economic services of general interest were also promised. it has not happened, and we are again in a situation where we have not started negotiating the employment directives at the end of the year, although they should be guidelines for next year. maybe we want to get back to the situation we were in last year, where we're accepting things that we should have reported on by the end of the year. mr. president, i have to go. the deputies want to work, but they need you to do it. it is not enough for us to tell you what we want in our own initiative reports, we need you to cooperate and work together.
mr president, 2012 is indeed going to be difficult, with many things to accomplish. let me add three things. first, let us not forget about gender mainstreaming, which also concerns pension system reform. for reasons such as the pay gap, care work and because of work in precarious and undervalued sectors, women often receive pensions barely above the minimum subsistence level. we were talking about poverty and social exclusion this morning. women aged over 65 years are at a much higher risk of poverty than men. this needs to change. second, the regulation on the european citizens’ initiative (eci) – and i am very pleased to see that my favourite commissioner dealt with this issue – will be applicable from next april. i am sure that everything will be ready for the starting date on the logistical side. our colleagues are working hard on it. when it comes to the political aspect, i hope that the commission will prove to citizens that it is worth starting an eci. third, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality is very much looking forward to seeing the commission’s report on the implementation of council directive 2004/113/ec. in this respect, i am even more curious to see the follow-up to the european court of justice judgment in the test-achats case.
it's quite clear that a pragmatism is beginning to gain ground in this room, that climate policy has failed, that a new concept needs to be developed. mr. florenz, and i agree with them, that we must make a decisive effort to promote energy efficiency, to develop renewable energy technologies and to cooperate with china, america and others. but the fate of global emissions trading is also important, especially for the new member states, because the new member states have a lot of climate assets. it is clear that this total climate wealth cannot be carried forward, but it would be very good to find a worthy solution, since the new member states of the union have made many sacrifices, many jobs have been lost by contributing to global climate protection.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i think it is imperative that every responsible european politician should feel that the protection of the environment is a matter of the heart. i, too, have a heart to heart on climate change, but it's a global issue, and global problems require global answers. it's very nice that the european union is leading the way in this fight, but let's face it, there's little to be gained by slovenia, estonia or hungary, if they follow strict climate protection rules, other than by setting an example. it is not that the european union is the main source of shortcomings, but that a minimum climate protection framework should be set up in durban and that somehow, through diplomatic means, the united states, china and india should be forced to take decisive action to protect the climate.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. it is deeply disappointing to me that the eu's climate policy over the past two years has been more like a dialogue of the deaf than a cooperation of the understanding and commitment of each other's interests. in the council, some of the old member states are selfishly and extremely short-sightedly unwilling to accept the arguments of the newly joined eastern european countries, which are defending their excess quota, which is their national wealth. and when it comes to showcasing the eu's great emissions reduction achievements to global negotiators, they need the new member states' excellent record of over-achieving their kyoto commitments! what's this all about? that the eu15 would not have been able to meet their kyoto commitments without the large-scale emission reductions of the new member states, including hungary, which joined. that this decline is largely the result of the collapse of heavy industry in the former socialist countries, the price of which we have already paid in the form of the severe social and economic crisis of the 1990s. however, in the meantime, many of the old member states have vigorously developed their industries and increased their carbon dioxide emissions. why doesn't anyone want to punish them? why the double standard? in the light of all this council attitude, i am glad that the european parliament has at least been able to openly support the continuation of the kyoto regime and a new legally binding commitment period. although the decision does not yet guarantee the full transfer of the excess quota of the eastern european countries, i certainly welcome it and consider it a step to be followed.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! without wishing to offend anyone, i should like to say that i welcome you all to the expanded meeting of the committee on budgetary control, because as i look around the room, i see the same faces, the same people. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his excellent report. my fellow members of the house of representatives! mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. officer, please. i agree with the key point made by my colleague mr fjellner. this year's report shows that the use of european union funds is stable. he's stable, but unfortunately he's showing signs of trouble. i would like to mention two important aspects of future stability in today's debate. in order to ensure that the union's economy is stable and on the upward trend in the period ahead, common rules that are effective, transparent, verifiable and easy to apply are needed to guarantee the proper use of funds and stability is also needed in the use of possible resources, in particular cohesion funds, so that everyone can expect to be able to count on similar amounts of funds in the budgetary period ahead.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the eu and the acp have in recent years developed closer relations, which is certainly welcome. think of the reconstruction of haiti, the consolidation of peace in south sudan, or the achievements in the area of food security. i think that no one is saying that any of these are bad, that they are wrong, but we cannot ignore the fact that the economic and social climate in europe has changed dramatically in recent years. the good and close relationship with the acp is important and promising, but europe cannot continue to make the sacrifices it has made, either economically or socially. the european union's economy should be helped first, because within the european union itself, particularly in the eastern regions, there are regions where conditions are almost like those in the third world, and these should be helped first. and socially, think about the huge problem of immigration, migration. the case of libya, for example, showed that in a short period of time, almost a million immigrants arrived in europe, creating social tensions that lead to huge problems in a short period of time.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, it is very important to note that europe is not only facing an economic, social and social crisis, but also a very serious cultural identity crisis. a crisis that threatens europe with the horror of mental emptiness, of mental burnout. globalism, or if i want to use a slang term, "multiculturalism", is destroying all national, all traditional cultural values, and leaving a big space, a big void. in these times, every award, every event that brings people, the european people, the youth back to healthy, normal, christian, christian values is very important. everything that brings the european man back to the nation, to the family, to god, and to young people, to show them the purpose of life, to prepare them for the difficulties of life. my request is that this 'european heritage' award should not be an abstract award, not a distant concept, but that we bring it to the people. and i can very well agree that we do use it to create jobs, but it's very ambivalent when we talk about culture, tourism and the economy together, and at the same time, at the request of the european union, in hungary, historic wine regions are being cut down to vines, apple plantations are being cut down. so please clear up any misunderstandings. it is time for the european union to make room for a healthy diversity of nations.
madam president, members of the house of representatives, officer, please. respected reporter! i welcome the debate on the second reading of the 'european heritage' and thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work. i just want to draw the attention of the honorable assembly to one small detail. in particular, to remember that it was during the hungarian presidency that the time came for political agreement at the education council meeting in may, and that was the end of the decision-making process. and that's when we were able to move the case from deadlock to compromise between the three major bodies, which is what got us here today. this agreement was also reached on the remaining issues of dispute, such as the budget, the allocation of the title to certain sites and the question of the institution competent for the take-back. and that's especially important because we've heard a lot of great venues for the upcoming times. in the light of these considerations, as a member of the committee on culture, i welcome and support the vote on this report tomorrow and i ask everyone to confirm the first motion by voting in favour.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my dear officer vassiliou. i thank the european parliament, the commission and the council, and the successive spanish, belgian and hungarian presidencies for their work and cooperation, and i welcome the establishment of the title 'european heritage' with eu validity. the new title is a welcome addition to existing international programmes such as unesco's world heritage or the council of europe's 'european cultural routes' programme. the general extension of european heritage is particularly important and beneficial for the countries and nations of eastern and central europe that have joined the european union later, are less well known or were previously separated by the iron curtain, and whose inclusion of universal values in their common cultural heritage will greatly facilitate their effective integration and integration into the union. the general introduction of the 'european heritage' title will enrich each of the nations of the union and make europe richer as a whole.
mr president, a couple of months ago i made a speech here indicating that the best solution to the greek crisis would be an orderly default, with a significant ‘hair cut’ to private and public bond-holders. i made a distinction between insolvency and liquidity, and argued that insolvency cannot be addressed by throwing good money after bad. commission rehn dismissed my proposal because he felt it would trigger a domino effect and the commission feared contagion. now we do have contagion – see the example of italy – without having made any significant move to solve the greek crisis. the commission and the whole european political class is dangerously behind the curve. what needs to be done? eurozone governments have to push through an orderly ‘hair cut’ immediately; the efsf needs to be recapitalised before france loses its triple-a rating; greek banks should sell their balkan empires, and the remaining carcasses have to be taken over by well-capitalised financial institutions; privatisation should go ahead at full steam; the tax system must be streamlined, and its rules enforced with rejuvenated administrative vigour; societal solidarity needs to be rebuilt. for the sake of preserving democracy in europe, capitalism must be saved.
in writing. only together can we overcome the deepening crisis in the euro area. steps are needed to deepen integration through more effective use of community instruments and methods. markets reject the half-baked, slow-born solutions, the special ones. the deepening debt crisis makes it clear that only swift, jointly decided and implemented decisions, and credible action by community institutions with extended mandates, can stop the eurozone and, with it, the european union from breaking up. i agree with those who believe that strengthening european economic governance and deepening political integration are necessary if the eu is to emerge from a period of crisis on a scale not seen since the second world war. the crisis threatening the existence of the monetary union is having an impact on the whole of europe. the member states outside the euro area are therefore keen to see closer cooperation between the countries using the single currency. we also reject the idea of creating a two- or multi-speed europe, intergovernmental solutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the eu delegation should be fully involved in the decisions that shape the future of integration. a community governed together, committed to closer integration, needs a budget that reflects its ambitions and a strong cohesion policy.
almost a month after 26 october, europe is still powerless to define such cardinal issues as calming european markets or treating credit ratings objectively. europe can only be taken seriously if it can provide real, forward-looking answers for its citizens. i therefore see our activities as being twofold: short-term, which concerns immediate problems, and long-term, which spans several decades and can guarantee economic growth and job creation, i.e. european prosperity. however, in order to maintain our long-term strategies, based on common solidarity and often requiring serious compromises, such as the establishment of common financial supervision or the launching of economic governance, we must not allow short-term objectives and non-european actors to make our common objectives impossible in any way. while it is welcome that the commission is taking the initiative to regulate and hold credit rating agencies more strictly and more legally accountable after a long time, it is shocking and incomprehensible that its proposals to temporarily suspend ratings and to set up a european credit rating agency have been postponed. i therefore call on the commission to establish as soon as possible a european credit rating agency, which is really aware of the mood of european markets and which is fundamentally interested in the recovery of the european economy, in order to create a stable and predictable european economic climate that can be seen as a guarantee for the future.
in writing. it is unacceptable that the global economic developments and the assessment of the economy of individual countries should be influenced by credit rating agencies which, in recent years, have been responsible for the outbreak and deepening of the economic crisis through a series of faulty and sometimes self-serving ratings. it is time for europe to act as one against erroneous and harmful credit rating practices. in this respect, yesterday's announcement by the eu's internal market commissioner michel barnier that the european commission is proposing on several fronts tougher regulation of credit ratings and, in some cases, to bring agencies to justice is welcome. however, it is disappointing that the commission has so far postponed the decision on the temporary suspension of ratings and the establishment of a european credit rating agency. it is in the interest of the whole of europe that the european commission should take a decision on these issues as soon as possible. the hungarian people's party group supports any endeavour of the european commission to further harmonise and tighten the rules on the operation of credit rating agencies. in the meantime, however, the opinions of credit rating agencies must be treated with a number of reservations, because, as has been unfortunately demonstrated in recent years, their validity often raises serious doubts. unfounded and unjustified downgrades, by increasing the uncertainty in financial markets, will only deepen the crisis and could push already struggling european states into further recession. in the worst crisis in the history of the european union, this is an unforgivable irresponsibility.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. europe's economy is in tatters. the economic growth of european countries is forecast to slow sharply next year, owing to the austerity measures imposed in the past and the misguided economic policy measures. at the same time, the budget deficit is rising again, and financing public debt is becoming more difficult and expensive. there's only one way out of this double bind. implement the economic governance package for sound budgetary management as soon as possible and adopt further rules to strengthen economic cooperation. in the medium term, however, investment-enhancing policies are needed to accelerate sustainable economic growth in europe, primarily through spending on energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy sources, research and development, education and health. without stable and sustainable economic growth, it is impossible to renew the european social model and at least partially preserve its main achievements.
in writing. - today we approved five payments from the globalisation adjustment fund, one to greece, three to ireland and one to austria. the money isn't going to the companies or the governments, it's going to the people. i always vote for such a proposal, but i know there's a flaw in the concept. secondary action. like social policy itself, the management of unemployment is a matter for the member states. there is, of course, some truth to the idea that if global impacts are causing the harm, then global help is appropriate. but i don't think that's the real answer, even though all governments benefit from having money for the house. if a company decides that it is worthwhile to set up production in ukraine, for example, because there, say, it pays a tenth of the wages as in greece, it will certainly move. the union shall contribute to the retraining or assistance of those made redundant as compensation. but the problem is we're gonna have to deal with it. tomorrow another company will be taking over, and for the sake of greater profits, they will abandon their workers. this is how waiter europe is slowly becoming a place where masses of photographer-enthusiastic asian tourists come to admire the memories of our past. but there is no production. this phenomenon should be taken more seriously than the issue of a european pain-money. before it's too late.
in writing. the tracking and processing of both banking and passenger traffic data provides law enforcement agencies with an effective tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. it is welcome that agreements have been or are being concluded between the eu and its allies on both tftp and pnr that address the majority of the european parliament's human rights concerns by incorporating guarantees for the prevention and remediation of possible violations into the agreements. i would like to draw attention to one aspect, and not the first: the need for reciprocity. the union should not only give but also receive information from the us, as an equal partner, which is essential for law enforcement. however, this would require the union to make clear to the us which of its bodies or agencies is fully empowered to receive and evaluate data from the us in accordance with the merger principle and to provide member states with information relevant to them on an ongoing basis.
author. − mr president, half a year ago, after the adoption of the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies, we all agreed that the strategy was not the end, but the beginning, of our work. let me share with you the four most important tasks and areas that await us in the very near future and that are essential for this strategy to be a success in the end. firstly, the institutional and coordination starting line is to be finalised. for this purpose, the commission’s confirmation to parliament at the end of october that, despite any political upheaval or budgetary hardship in member states, it was expecting the national roma inclusion strategies to be submitted by the end of this year was of great importance. the commission also confirmed that, after a thorough evaluation covering the professional substantiation, complexity and financial feasibility of the national strategies, the commission would also present specific recommendations for their revision, and would report annually on the progress of the integration to parliament and to the council. on 8 april 2010 in budapest, vice-president reding promised that the commission would keep a close eye on the actions of all the member states and would not tolerate any window-dressing regarding the national strategies. secondly, parliament’s report called for the establishment of a so-called crisis map to identify and measure the under-developed areas which are struggling with serious structural disadvantages. this will enable complex and holistic development programmes for immediate intervention under the cross-sectoral integrated approach. i truly hope that the poverty mapping carried out by the fundamental rights agency will fulfil these requirements. thirdly, last year parliament proposed serious and important changes to the next multiannual financial framework in order to ensure that eu and national funds can contribute to the substantial and enduring improvement of living conditions for the roma. complex, flexible and sustainable programmes are necessary, with longer time coverage and greater territorial relevance, focusing on the most disadvantaged micro-regions. the scope of eu funding must be extended in the near future so that provision of quality public services can also become eligible. the rules of co-financing should be revised and possibly differentiated so that projects targeting the roma could possibly be required to be funded with a lower proportion of national co-financing and a higher share from the eu. the idea of performance, that parliament stood so firmly behind last year, should remain on the agenda. the fourth point that i would like to raise is also related to the european parliament’s report last year, when we stated that the eu policy to improve the socio-economic status of the european roma must not compromise, but complement, anti-discrimination legislation. therefore, directive 2000/43/ec on equal treatment must be finally implemented in the member states and enforced by the commission. the national equality bodies must be strengthened and all violations of these legal principles must be immediately reported and sanctioned.
mr. president, i have to go. i'm also very pleased to have commissioner vassiliou here and i miss commissioner reding very much, who has been practically invisible on this case since last summer. when he speaks, he expresses satisfaction rather than problems. and yet we see that the forced expulsion of roma continues in france. between april and october 2011, nearly 600 people were affected. in slovakia, a bill offers free contraception and sterilization to roma women. in the north of the czech republic, protesters attacked a roma settlement. there are a series of anti-gypsy protests in bulgaria with threats, radical demands. in italy, 26% of roma women mentioned that they had suffered police violence, humiliating treatment. almost all of europe is experiencing segregation in education, housing, violence against roma, hate speech. the commission is listening and awaiting our roma strategy, as we have heard here, which we know several member states have indicated that they do not consider it necessary to draw up. there are no sanctions. the whole strategy has very little, if any, anti-discrimination in it, so it is almost impossible to take it into account. member states will have to come up with anti-poverty social measures which the commission would like to monitor with the fundamental rights agency, which has neither the capacity nor the experience to do so. we will inform you in time, and we expect the commission to act against all forms of discrimination and to ensure that the strategy is effectively implemented.
member of the commission. − mr president, one thing i want to assure this house of is that we shall not content ourselves with empty words. let me remind you that the strategy that we have adopted asks member states to submit their national strategies by the end of the year. we have to wait until the end of the year to evaluate these national strategies, and we shall report to this house at the beginning of 2012. and this is just the beginning. i assure you that these strategies will not remain empty promises. to take the case of the free movement directive, the majority of member states, including france, have already modified their laws or announced amendments – or at least this is what we have been told. the commission is closely monitoring how these member states are delivering on their commitments. for those member states not yet there, the commission has made full use of its powers under the treaty, and between april and october of this year launched infringement proceedings against 12 member states. the framework decision on racism and xenophobia obliging member states to penalise public incitement to violence or hatred against groups obliges member states to provide that racist or xenophobic motivation of any offence constitutes an aggravating circumstance, or obliges judges to take this element into account in determining penalties. this is particularly pertinent for attacks against roma people, such as those which have taken place recently in member states, but let me remind you that it is the national courts which will determine whether these statements were inciting hatred – not the commission. member states were obliged to transpose the framework decision into their national legislation by 28 november. 22 member states have notified their implementing measures, which the commission is analysing. the missing five are belgium, estonia, greece, spain and poland. the fact that the other 22 have notified does not, of course, mean that they have transposed the framework decision. what we have done is appoint a group of experts to follow closely its transposition and implementation. the implementation report will be presented to us in 2013. let me remind you that under the lisbon treaty there is a transition period, and we cannot currently enforce the framework decision. we can only do this after 2013. so we shall have the report of the expert group by 2013. in 2014, we can take infringement measures against those countries which have not duly transposed this directive. so i want to assure you that we shall not be sitting idle, waiting for things to happen on their own. we shall follow and monitor the issues very closely. once we have received the national strategies at the end of the year, we shall monitor the situation and we shall decide what other measures to take next year.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i believe this deeply and am hopeful that the eu framework for national roma integration standards, which was adopted with the strong support of the european parliament in may, will certainly make a difference. and as ms járóka said, this is just the beginning of the journey, but what is important is that we have started it, together, all 27 countries and at all levels of work within the european union. because what is really important is that the changes we make, the actions we take, will result in improving the daily life of every roma child, supporting every adult - woman and man - and improving the situation of roma families. it is important to do all this with great delicacy and sensitivity, and to try not to be too harsh and stigmatizing, because there is no collective responsibility. as in any society, there are good and bad, noble and less noble, and there are those who are not wanted, but there are also exceptional talents. and if we don't work with this community, we lose all those people who deserve our support, and we lose those unique diamonds that could be turned into diamonds. there is not a large roma community in poland and indeed we have been doing well for 10 years running a programme for the roma community, which does not mean that we do not have much to do. but it was in connection with the activities of the presidency in october this year, when we had the convention of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion and just two days ago in poznań, when the european equality summit took place, that we discussed the effectiveness of actions for excluded groups, including the roma community, to include this element of local, regional action with the verification of the effectiveness of these actions at the very bottom, with reaching out to the individual, to use european money more effectively locally and regionally, so that the effect is lasting. the important thing is that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we also have a meeting in brussels of the european platform for roma integration, and this will be the sixth meeting. i hope that these annual meetings and two-day discussions will also contribute to more effective action to integrate the roma community at large. i would like to say one more thing: i am a member of the polish parliament and this year we passed a resolution in the polish sejm making august 2 the day of remembrance of the genocide of roma and sinti. on august 2, 1944, the gypsy camp was finally liquidated in the german concentration camp auschwitz-birkenau. and it's the kind of day that would commemorate the holocaust of the roma as a community that was stigmatized during world war ii and eliminated solely because of its ethnicity. we, as the polish presidency, have asked the president of the european parliament, mr buzek, to make this day a memorial day for the roma and sinti. i would like to take this opportunity to ask all members to support this initiative to acknowledge the presence of the roma and the tragedy they experienced just a few decades ago here in europe. in conclusion, i would like to thank you very much for including this item on roma integration as an item on the agenda of the european parliament. i know these are long-term challenges. we cannot forget these difficult problems even in the most difficult times, especially since this crisis is already a daily reality in every european country. but all the more so must we make an effort to use money effectively, to be really effective in action, so that our european roma really feel at home in europe, in our countries. i am very grateful for the role played by the european parliament in this matter. thank you very much, sir.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. it is common knowledge that eu member states should present their national strategies by the end of this year as part of the framework of the european roma strategy for roma inclusion. it is extremely depressing and sobering that despite the alarming approach of the deadline, only hungary and romania have so far prepared their 10-year strategic programme and sweden has prepared a draft law on this matter. this unfortunate incident rightly reminds us of the disgraceful failure of the european programme for the roma decade (2005-2015) which the eu framework programme for roma inclusion was created to remedy and replace. it is time for the european union and its member states to take seriously not only the more than ten million roma who live on the fringes of society and in dire poverty, but also themselves and their own commitments. it's a shame that we can't or don't really want to make our own decisions and agreements work. it is in our common european interest, both from a moral, economic and political point of view, and in the national interest of each member state, to put an end to this situation and to put into practice the eu roma strategy that we have unanimously adopted.
the following point is inserted after the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the banning of cluster munitions [2011/2913 ((rsp) ].
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all members for their contribution and for giving us the opportunity to discuss these crucial aspects of our work in addressing the overwhelming humanitarian concerns of cluster munitions. i wish to underline that the european union will maintain its engagement to attain a ban on cluster munitions through active political outreach in the framework both of the convention on cluster munitions and of the convention on certain conventional weapons, and i express our strong commitment to continuing future efforts to increase the number of signatures and ratifications and to turn our ambitions into practical realities. the eu will also continue to provide international cooperation and assistance by streamlining activities against cluster munitions in our development and cooperation policies. the eu is aware of the complexity of the tasks involved. both the implementation of the ccm and delivering on the vientiane action plan require financial resources and political commitment. the eu stands ready to assist states in these endeavours.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 november 2011.
the following is the order of business for the following debate on the question referred by mr marielle gallo, ms doris pack, mr jürgen creutzmann, mr olle ludvigsson, mr antónio fernando correia de campos, ms arlene mccarthy, mr phil prendergast, mr ashley fox, mr louis michel, mr jean-paul gauzès, mr jean-marie cavada, ms nadja hirsch, ms diana wallis, mr bill newton dunn, mr tadeusz zwiefka, ms constance le grip, mr david casa, mr jean-pierre audy, mr pablo arias echeverría, mr philippe juvin, mr piotr borys, mr marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, mr josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, ms angelika niebler, mr axel voss, ms françoise grossetête, mr ivo belet, ms katarína nejdová, mr cătălin, mr ivan silvia costa, mr alajos mészáros, mr damien tobeli, mr damien takkula, mr hannu abad, mr ioannis, mr truka, mr cornelis, mr cecilia jong, mr klaus jong, mr clé, mr christian and mr adonis, who are members of the following committee, and mr nikif. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data against unauthorised access to the internet.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me say that i started by saying that i do agree with all of you about this irregularity, but we cannot get away from the facts. these discussions with member states started in 2003 and were completed in 2008 with the adoption of certain decisions. at that time – even in 2008 – there was probably not a correct evaluation of the value of online books, periodicals etc. technology advances so rapidly and we can now see that this evaluation was lacking. what we need is a political discussion on the current vat rates and structure. this is necessary in the broader framework of the review of the eu vat system, and the commission intends to initiate this discussion with the communication that we shall adopt in december. as i said, this communication will cover all aspects of vat, including the issues that we have been discussing, and i hope that this will lead to some decisions to be taken for action next year.
i have four motions for resolutions (see minutes), tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 november 2011. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
madam president! a normal person, if his house catches fire, instead of watering his walnut seedlings in the garden, which may turn into a crop in 15 years, he sprays his house with all the water available. for years, internationally recognized energy scientists have warned that our planet is running out of hydrocarbons and coal, and that within ten years there will be a global energy crisis, the effects of which are sadly already being felt. the realistic greens also know that the only way out of this situation is to accelerate the construction of the third generation nuclear power plants currently under investment, restart the shut down reactors and then as soon as possible broadly deploy environmentally friendly fourth generation plants with breeder reactors and brine-solvent plants, so as not to have to burn coal and hydrocarbons to produce electricity. and that solves the problem of carbon dioxide emissions right away. ladies and gentlemen, we're already 10 or 15 years behind. therefore, the training should not be for dismantling but for operating, and specialists should be trained immediately, as there is a shortage of such specialists. and fourth-generation research needs to be accelerated to a very high degree immediately. we can take funding for this from fusion research, because it makes as much sense today as irrigating the facets instead of putting out fires. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. with the euratom strand ahead, we aim to complement and simplify other research policy actions of the union needed to implement the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those related to education, training and employment, competitiveness, innovation and the environment. 1. education, training, employment increased attention and budgetary contributions are needed to promote initiatives in nuclear research, in particular in terms of human capital and actions to address the risk of shortages of specialists in the coming years (e.g. grants to nuclear researchers). competitiveness, innovation and the environment secondly, the framework programme should contribute to the implementation of the innovation union, a flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy. it should strengthen competition for scientific excellence to accelerate the implementation of key innovations in nuclear energy, while playing an appropriate role in addressing the challenges of the energy sector and climate change. the implementation of iter in europe will expand new research infrastructures with a significant european dimension and will lead to the creation of new research infrastructures supporting iter experiments in the context of the european additional programme. simplification thirdly, the implementation of the framework programme (2012 to 2013) should be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust, in line with the recommendations set out in the european parliament's report on the simplification of the implementation of the research framework programmes.
in writing. according to many researchers, three quarters of the world's oceans are overfished, meaning that the fish stocks affected are no longer able to replenish themselves. since nearly two thirds of the oceans are not under the exclusive jurisdiction of any one country but are international waters, international cooperation and regulation are needed to curb illegal fishing. at the same time, the world's growing population is increasingly dependent on marine protein. in addition to combating illegal fishing, there is therefore a need to promote freshwater fisheries as the most sustainable form of fishing.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of the house of representatives! thank you for supporting this initiative in such large numbers. this is the most signed statement in this cycle. that's a record for this session. thank you so much for that. this statement was made at the initiative of my colleague marinescu, who was contacted by the romanian federation of the deaf. so they're the ones who initiated this, and my colleague, representative marinescu, was exemplary in his approach to me, a concerned citizen. it's nothing about us without us, that's what it's all about. i hope that this written statement will put more pressure on the european institutions to facilitate the opening up of the asylum system more effectively. the tech is ready. it's available, you just have to apply it. in that case, i, being deaf, can not only call for help for myself, but also for you. so i want to thank you for supporting this initiative. there are deaf people on the stage who have lobbied for this cause, and i think they deserve a big round of applause, but not with applause, but with a deaf handshake. we'd like to give a big round of applause to those who are deaf and to thank them for their work.
in writing. − as one of the shadow rapporteurs, i would like to congratulate ms svensson and mr gustafsson on the acceptance of the report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming is a strategy that has been actively pursued in the european parliament for many years. this report which is the first gm report in this legislature, aims to follow the progress and summarise the different tools available in order to help other political bodies of the ep to integrate the gender perspective into their work. i believe that the objective of gender equality needs to be explicitly integrated into all social and economic policy, rather than being handled in isolation. it is important to keep in place what has already been achieved and keep the gender mainstreaming network active. but we also need to move forward and transform the procedure of adopting gender mainstreaming amendments so that it becomes a formally recognised working method of the parliament. looking back at the gm reports adopted by the plenary in the past it is reassuring to see that even if the strategy of mainstreaming is not a quick fix solution a steady progress has been made during the years.
madam president, please. let me first define the future and what i have to say from the general economic situation, because that defines my framework. i am very pleased that the council has finally identified the priorities on which swift action is needed. and here we are. the fast paces are kind of lagging. much more attention needs to be paid to the growth-enhancing aspects of european policies. this should be done in order to maximise the union's contribution to economic development. in this situation, there is no doubt: fiscal consolidation is of paramount importance for the member states and debt reduction is of paramount importance. if we do not do this, the problems of the european union will be reproduced and reproduced, giving rise to new concerns. at the european council, you always set out ambitious ideas and long-term plans. unfortunately, these initiatives do not reassure the markets in the short term. i did. negative feedbacks, misrepresentations, allow member states to be financed at ever higher cost levels. i believe that much more decisive action is needed to achieve the concrete objectives. it is essential that you coordinate the actions of the member states and your plans to this end. but that requires credibility and decisive action. they took action and they did it. officer, i was looking for this decisive action. i was looking for it in your speech.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the council meeting on 8 and 9 december will be marked by the search for a solution to the euro crisis. however, i believe it is important to pay due attention to the europe 2020 strategy and the eu's energy policy, as well as to short- and medium-term crisis management. a possible gas crisis would only add to the negative effects of the financial crisis. it is gratifying to see that efforts to achieve the eu energy market continue at the level of investment despite financial difficulties. this is illustrated by the signing of a declaration of intent by the eastern european countries on the eve of the energy council last week to establish a north-south energy corridor. the basic objective of the participating member states is to reduce the region's dependence on imports by enabling the north-south transport of energy. this is to be achieved by appropriate interconnection of gas, oil and electricity networks. the haste of the signatory countries is understandable, as the citizens of the region still vividly remember the winter of 2009, when russia closed the pipelines on the coldest of days. however, intersections are a major problem not only in times of gas crises but also in everyday life. in the case of central and eastern european energy markets, the infrastructure is not adequate and the flow of energy is often not smooth. in my view, cooperation is a good example of the need for coordination at regional and eu level in the event of an economic crisis. it also highlights that there is no time to delay if we want to achieve a truly functioning single energy market by 2014.
madam president, please. it is a real pleasure for me to vote in favour of croatia's membership application as a representative of a neighbouring country, as a representative of hungary. i congratulate croatia on getting this far. it's a very serious job. croatia is also a good example for other countries in the region that are trying to join the european union. the message is that if they meet the conditions, the union is open to them and the european union keeps its word. the hungarian presidency has managed to conclude the croatian negotiations. i mention this because hungary has always been united in its commitment to help croatia and the croatian accession process. however, there are other tasks that i would like to mention here - partly up to full membership and partly afterwards. i say this as the representative of a country that has recently joined the european union and knows these difficulties from the inside. it requires a continuous effort to maintain good neighbourly relations and to contain nationalist sentiments in this region. in the immediate aftermath of a war and in the midst of an economic crisis, european values and their widespread social support and acceptance can only be achieved and maintained if they are represented in a unified way by government and politicians and if the public is given credible information about the rights and obligations of eu membership. i therefore welcome my croatian colleagues and the croatian accession in the hope of further good cooperation.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this debate – a debate which was overall very positive and inspiring. i am encouraged by the broad support you have given to the accession of croatia. i hope this will be translated into a decisive vote tomorrow. i also heard your encouragement to croatia to continue its preparation for membership. the findings of our autumn monitoring show that croatia has maintained the momentum in its preparation for membership and has achieved a very high level of preparation to assume the responsibilities of membership upon accession. completing these preparations should be a key priority for the government that will be formed after the upcoming elections. i am making that remark to stress the point that there will be no exceptions for croatia from meeting the obligations we have negotiated with croatia, and that these obligations will be met by the time that it accedes to the european union. let me also confirm that the ratification of the accession treaty will indeed be a stand-alone act based on article 49 of the treaty of the european union. from the commission’s side, i reiterate my firm commitment to continue our close cooperation and i will make sure that you are adequately informed about the progress achieved by croatia in the months to come, up to accession. the enlargement policy is the response to the legitimate aspiration of the people of europe to join the endeavour of a unified europe. let us work together so that the lesson of croatia – that hard work pays off – remains the hallmark of a credible enlargement policy.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i also want to greet the croatian delegations. i see the chief negotiator there, so i want to congratulate him very warmly, and also personally, for all the efforts and very hard work over the years to bring croatia to the doorstep of the european union. maybe, i could jokingly say that when croatia enters you will get even more used to slavic names like dowgielewicz – so that will certainly be very welcome. i want to focus now on something else in my final remarks. i remember very well when this parliament voted in strasbourg on the accession of ten member states in the spring of 2003, and i remember very well the debates that existed before the accession referenda in those countries, notably my own country poland. i remember the sea of eurosceptic nonsense that was flowing everywhere about losing national identity; the economic babel that was going to come with accession; the end of agriculture; the end of values; the end of christianity – all that nonsense. look at poland now, look at other countries like the czech republic or the baltic states, and look how much we prosper in the european union. look at how big a success enlargement has been, and especially the last round that i am referring to. i very much hope that the croatian debate ahead of the referendum will be a debate based on the facts, and that there will be a campaign, discussions and debate based on real issues. i very much hope that we will not see a repetition of the same discussions that lead nowhere and are just based on myths that are very far from reality. so i hope for a very positive vote tomorrow. i also want to thank the rapporteur, mr swoboda, for all the efforts and commitment he has put into this report and also the work with croatia over the years. i very much hope that in these difficult times we will all be able to communicate this optimism, dynamism and positive message that flow from the fact of croatia’s accession.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 1 december 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. croatia has increased its efforts in recent months. this hard work and commitment can serve as an example for countries preparing for eu membership. however, as the crisis deepens, some countries are unfortunately reluctant to enlarge, believing that this will exacerbate economic problems. i do not agree with those who believe that a period of consolidation after accession is necessary. croatia has proved its worthiness to be a member of the union. this is a common goal both politically and economically in the region. i am confident that croatia's accession will give a new impetus to the enlargement process as a whole, providing a european perspective for the western balkans. as is well known, the possibility of eu membership in the balkans has a strong impact on the introduction of democratic reforms. it should be stressed that the negotiations also contribute to the containment of conflicts in the volatile region and will continue to have a positive impact in the future. the balkan countries must also keep this vision in mind and continue to reform. citizens must not forget that reforms are not for brussels, but for citizens. but we also need to be clear about our commitments and promises. the final phase of the croatian accession negotiations has demonstrated the effectiveness of the eu institutions' ability to work together. i believe that other countries can draw new energy from croatia's achievements to meet the challenges they face.
in writing. – i would like to welcome the steps that croatia has taken in publicly standing up for the rights of minorities and reaffirming their place in society as well as the specific policy measures that the government has taken in improving the quality of and access to early childhood education with special regard to the roma minority. i would also like to welcome the implementation of the anti-discrimination law, although – as it is the case in almost all member states – more awareness must be raised of the legal possibilities granted by the law and its scope. despite some advances in certain other policy areas, such as the improvement of infrastructure of roma settlements, verified also by the 2010 progress report of croatia, these are only the first steps towards the socio-economic (re)integration of roma communities that the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies aims for. i very much hope that croatia, as the 28th member state of the eu – along with other enlargement countries – will elaborate its own long-term strategy for roma inclusion, including the necessary cross-sector, complex and territorially targeted development and inclusion programmes called for by the framework strategy.
in writing. croatia is delighted that the european parliament has given its consent to the accession treaty. the hungarian presidency has made a great effort to ensure that the accession negotiations with croatia can be successfully concluded, and it is particularly important for hungary that this vote has put a long-term accession process in the right direction for croatia. the european parliament's decision is proof that the enlargement process is not over, that the eu's promise to south east europe made in thessaloniki in 2003 still exists, and that this is a positive message for the rest of the region. however, as of 1 july 2013, the situation that existed until 1918 may be reversed, with croatian and hungarian representatives being able to sit in the same parliament.
in writing. twenty years after independence, croatia has reached a historic milestone and could join the european union as its 28th member next year. croatia has undergone fundamental social and economic changes during the accession negotiations. it has made its administration, judicial system and the fight against corruption more effective. it has made its economy more competitive, has settled the croatian-slovenian border dispute, and has improved relations with minorities in the country. however, some problems remain unsettled. relations between the croatian government and mol have been extremely tense. the right-wing croatian government, in the name of nationalist economic policy, prevents the independent operation of mol's subsidiary in croatia, the exercise of mol's ownership rights and conducts a witch hunt against zsolt hernádi, the company's director. we hope that in the event of an electoral victory, the new left-wing government will abandon its nationalist economic policy. until mol's situation in croatia is satisfactorily resolved, the hungarian government should treat the ratification of the croatian accession treaty with reservations.
the following point is taken from the report by pervenche berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the european semester for economic policy coordination (2011/2071 (ini)).
the committee on budgets has delivered its opinion. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i'm not going to let you down. i am pleased to say that the committee on budgets has supported and welcomed this report. i say this all the more easily now, because in the final form we found almost two-thirds of our written opinion embedded. for this and for the work, we owe the reporter a debt of gratitude. i fully agree with the commission that this is a process of dialogue. it's not that brussels is exercising some kind of hard control, some kind of hegemony. and that is why it is very important to involve the national parliaments, which is of course impossible without the proper involvement of the european parliament. but the real owner of the budget in a member state is the national parliament, so without them it would be quite difficult to get ahead.
mr president you know, you're only sure of an idea when you put it into practice, because the paper form, we all know, can take it. i would like to think that the european semester can be launched on a substantial basis after the initial difficulties and the probationary year. it would be unfortunate if this system were to function merely as a tracking system that operates within well-defined limits on paper, but which cannot be observed or fulfilled. the commission should ensure the compliance of the system. if the report is voted on tomorrow, we will have a clean slate, in fact, for a new period of hope that may be coming. i would like to call the commission's attention to more coordinated and accurate monitoring of the national reform programmes, to a rigorous analysis of the annual growth reports, to the preparation as soon as possible of analyses summarising good practices and the experience of the first year.
mr president, this is officer rehn. the european semester is a necessary but not sufficient instrument for the union's economic policy. the settlement of the eurozone crisis would require the introduction of euro bonds as soon as possible. it is unfortunate that the european commission can delay the preparation of the green paper for months or years. the drift of europe must be stopped. europe has no time to debate green books. the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which was proposed by the european socialists in parliament as early as september 2008, would be at least as important. i wish the heads of state and government would stop stalling. we must stop europe's drift by working together.
in writing. we urgently need to find ways of tackling the problems beyond the restrictions which in themselves even if only temporarily hold back growth and increase unemployment. adjustment programmes should also include measures that create jobs and trigger healthy structured growth. only then can we give perspective and faith to all those who have to bear the brunt of the adjustment. the legislative package is unfortunately lacking in specifics in this area. there is no denying that the most urgent tasks are now in the euro area. but there is also much to do in the ten countries that are not (yet) part of the euro area. the euro area leaders, who are now working together more closely, therefore have an important task to do not lose sight of the problems of these 10 member states, and to devote the necessary attention and effort to strengthening the union as a whole. this is not just a matter of goodwill and noble gestures, but also a well-considered interest, given that one third of the eu's half a billion citizens live outside the euro area and are essential buyers and suppliers for euro area companies and markets.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the officer. my fellow citizens! as my colleague said before me, i can say the same. we were all surprised by the resistance these negotiations have generated. this legitimate demand of parliament will lead to a series of negotiations extending beyond the exercise of the right of democratic control. i don't think any of the reporters thought it would go this far. however, i am glad to be here today for this closing debate. as co-rapporteur of the european instrument for democracy and human rights, i can only stress that this instrument would serve to protect human rights and democracy all over the world. this instrument can support the fight for children's rights, the fight against torture and cruel, inhuman treatment, but also specifically the protection of human rights defenders. the beneficiaries of this instrument are non-governmental organisations active in third countries for these purposes. and it was the events of the arab spring that showed how important it is that parliament does review strategic issues. and how much does it matter how these tools are used? we were able to reach agreement on the content of the report at first reading and there was no question to anyone that we would do everything possible to promote the functioning of ngos. the next two readings were the other side of the coin: the interinstitutional debate. and i see this four-pack as the veterinary horse, as they say in english. the first symbolic sign of the acceptance of the interinstitutional system was that the role of the european parliament had actually increased, changed after 1 december 2009. i am pleased that we have reached this agreement between the institutions, and i would like to thank my colleague, mr vidal quadras, and all the other members with whom we have been working for these months. we feel that the road has been long and we all know that the essence of any compromise is that the parties give up more or less of their original ideas. however, i feel that this is a major step forward and that the council and parliament can decide together on the strategic planning of the financial instrument in the future. it is important that this promise is included in the framework strategy negotiations. i am convinced that this agreement will strengthen parliament's negotiating position in the future. this is also ensured by the joint resolution. and this is particularly important and relevant when we want to talk about democracy and human rights to third world countries. the ratification of the interinstitutional agreement in tomorrow's vote is not our responsibility because of the interinstitutional trust. we in the european parliament must also act responsibly towards third countries. we can't be seen as unimportant. that's why i'm asking you to vote tomorrow on this package of four financial instruments.
the rapporteur. - i thank you for the points made in the debate and for the problems raised here. i want to emphasize that i fully understand those colleagues who are concerned that we are setting a negative precedent here. we all share the desire to have effective, usable and coherent financial instruments for the union, and this is particularly true in the field of human rights and democratisation. if the citizens of europe are to really believe that these millions are for a good cause, they need to develop a strategy that they will shape together with parliament. so the most natural demand on our part is that a multiannual framework, a strategy, should not be adopted without our consent, without our co-decision. it is therefore incomprehensible and bitter for everyone to see why the commission and the council are so opposed to this. as i said, i understand the reservations of the rapporteurs, but at the same time we must see that we have reached a compromise and we consider this to be a major step forward in terms of the financial instrument for democratization and human rights. we also expect that this agreement, this resolution, will be applied in the development of the next strategy and framework. i would also like to stress our dual responsibility, or our multiple responsibility and credibility, which is now increasingly binding on all of us in this debate that has been going on for two years.
mr president, the officer! forums play a key role in information exchange and cooperation. the single market is about meeting growth and employment objectives. the european parliament played a key role in the adoption of the directive and the development of the package of measures, and in bringing about an agreement by the end of next year. however, it is important that the short-term effects of this agreement are already felt. the economic benefits are substantial and cannot be ignored. however, this requires full implementation by member states of all elements of the directive, from the one-stop shop to the provision of information. in the meantime, we must not forget smes. i am convinced that smes have not been the winners of the internal market so far. efforts should therefore be made to reduce regulatory efforts. the commission has also made such a commitment to an impact assessment. we're waiting for this impact study.
mr. president, 91 years ago, in defiance of the wilson principle of self-determination, transylvania and several other territories of the country were annexed from hungary without consulting the hungarian population. after all this time, i don't want to reopen old historical territorial disputes, but i want to raise my voice in defense of the hungarians across the border. it is intolerable and untenable that boldogi olivér, and as is to be expected, many of his compatriots, are deprived of their slovak citizenship and expelled from their homeland, the slovak highlands, because they openly accept their hungarian identity. it is also intolerable and untenable that in transylvania, romania, in our own homeland, in our former hungarian university in marosvásárhely, we hungarians can no longer form an independent hungarian department. if they have taken our territories, at least they should guarantee our minority rights and national autonomy in these territories, as stated even in the gyulafehervár declaration. on the national day of romania, he is away from us to discuss transylvania with him, and we wish him a good celebration ... (the president withdrew the floor from the member. )
mr. president, the principle of non-retroactivity has been a principle in europe since roman law. the hungarian government has violated this principle on several occasions over the past year and a half. last year, he retroactively amended the pension savings contracts of citizens. last week, he reversed the retirement benefits, retroactively affecting more than 300,000 people: miners, soldiers, law enforcement. he is now preparing to pass a law on the transitional provisions of the constitution adopted last year, which was criticised by the european parliament, with retroactive effect. this time, he wants to hold the hungarian socialist party responsible for the crimes of the past regime with retroactive effect. the european parliament said in 2009 that no parliament can make laws from the past. this cannot be tolerated by the european parliament, the european commission or the commissioner for fundamental rights, viviane reding. the european union must act.
mr president i would like to draw the attention of parliament and the commission to a shocking phenomenon, which has already been mentioned by my colleagues in this house. we believe that this is an absurd situation and should be brought to the attention of both the commission and parliament. boldogi olivér, a hungarian resident of slovakia, was recently stripped of his slovak citizenship for the sole reason that he had taken on the citizenship of another eu member state, which happened to be hungary. the slovak republic has thus communicated that the acquisition of citizenship of another eu member state by a citizen of the union renders him worthless and indispensable. the question is whether deprivation of citizenship can be used as a sanction against a citizen who has lived since birth in the country, in his native land, and pays taxes there. it's not like the person has severed ties with the state. this deprivation of rights is contrary to the community trust and the slovak constitution, which states that no one can be deprived of slovak citizenship against his will. this serious step is part of the systematic intimidation of the entire hungarian minority community. the message is that the hungarians... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president the purpose of my speech is to call attention to the harmful activities of the credit rating agencies and the irresponsible statements of some of the commissioners. rating agencies form opinions, i.e. ratings, based on short-term interests, market sentiment and without scientific methodology. credit ratings assess sentiment elements in terms of market interests and prospects, i.e. they are not reliable in terms of their feedback on the business environment, but they can cause billions of dollars in damage. the question is why are you still waiting for a european credit rating? we are fighting an extraordinary battle to protect and defend the euro. i therefore cannot understand exactly whose interest is being served by a commissioner or by the vice-president himself when he makes irresponsible statements that highlight certain countries in a negative and disparaging way in relation to their economic policies.
in writing. – today reminds us that the numbers are terrible: 30 years - 60 million hiv infections, 30 million deaths. what is even worse is that we are talking about a fully preventable disease, but with a growing number of infections! the targets are ambitious; the spread of hiv/aids should be reversed by 2015. but how do we get there? i would like to emphasize three points. first, prevention. equitable, universal access to prevention is necessary, together with adequate information, sex education and access to means of protection. of course, when it comes to prevention, we shall mention vaccination as well which has already helped to lower and then freeze the number of new hiv infections to 2.7 million per year. second, anti-discrimination. we should make sure that people suffering from hiv/aids are not discriminated and not stigmatized. third, the gender aspect. we should bear in mind that women are more vulnerable than men in getting affected. this again shows the importance of and the need for ensuring women's rights and autonomy. all this requires serious, long-term political and financial engagement and support.
mr president first of all, i would like to extend my warmest greetings to president draghi on his first visit to parliament. and i would also like to congratulate the tremosa rapporteur on this excellent work, because he has described in a great and understandable way the price stability of the euro area and, moreover, all the measures that the ecb was supposed to guarantee in 2010. the ecb will continue to have a major responsibility for the monetary policy of the union, for its unity and for pursuing an appropriate interest rate policy, as it did in 2010. in my view, the ecb should indeed be able to intervene in the fight against the debt crisis and, on occasion, to promote liquidity by buying up government securities deemed too risky. it does so in order to give those member states a breath of fresh air and to allow them to take measures to stimulate investment and economic recovery. of course, this must be done with proper financial oversight. i also think it is a good idea to examine how the ecb can play a role in creating a european monetary fund, so that the imf can be excluded from lending policy and thus reduce the dependence of the member states on individual international institutions. it is a good idea to examine the need to prepare impact studies on how the eurobond issuance mechanism will be set up in the future. i also think it is very important, as my colleague has mentioned, to ensure that there is proper communication in order to ensure credibility. i therefore support and welcome the rapporteur's proposal to make the minutes of the governing council public. i wish mr president the determination and success he needs to continue his work. the intervener agrees to answer a question put to the court by a question of a cross (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
thank you for your question, congressman. although i don't agree with your assumption of the question either, because you're taking a very conservative approach to this question. in fact, the economic situation was fraught with crisis. if the ecb does not play a decisive role and take a firm stand on this, then indeed, your question will now become a fact. i do not think it is right to ask from whose money it will do so, since the monetary policy, the single policy of the union, must provide a proper basis for this in the future. if you do not do that, then we would indeed like to talk about the eurozone crisis and its collapse, but i am not your partner in this.
mr president, fellow members of the house of representatives, the first good news is that there is an agreement between the council and parliament. this will allow the union to be operational for the following year. moreover, as a hungarian, i can say that the lines that are most important to us have remained virtually untouched by the commission's original proposal. the functioning of the agricultural policy is assured. the convergence line will be increased by almost 9%. it may be argued that this is a lot or a little, but in any case it corresponds more or less to the realities. there are smaller items to be happy about, for example, that the money available for school supplies will increase by 9 million euros. it's a very successful program. we can even celebrate things that don't cost money, at least not extra money, when we accepted the proposal to use cultural money to save, preserve and develop endangered languages. of course, there are bad things. we have a debate with the council on whether the european budget as a whole can be, should be, integrated into the process of resolving the crisis. we feel that there is much, much more that could be done in this case. but still, when i consider the good and the bad, i can't say the half-empty, half-full glass analogy. this is our cup, which is 80% full, and the missing 20% will require additional efforts in the coming years. i hope we can do this in the same way that we have done it. the people's party will obviously support this budget.
in writing. it is good news that the agreement between the three eu institutions on the 2012 budget was reached at the right time this year. in view of the crisis, the payments are only moderately increased, but i think it is important that if necessary the decision be reviewed during the next year and that member states be warned of their promises. it would be unacceptable for the lack of money to affect those who need it most. the european social fund's programmes to combat unemployment and social inclusion are in danger of being cut off. the commitments made by member states to make up the shortfall should therefore be strictly monitored by the governments. however, parliament has managed to push for an increase in the level of longer-term financial commitments, so that eu funds will hopefully help to kick-start the european economy and achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy. the building of an area of freedom, security and justice has become a community competence since the treaty of lisbon and this requires more spending, said göncz kinga, the socialist shadow rapporteur on the 2012 budget for the ep's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the security and migration challenges, and the protection of the common border, can only be adequately addressed at european level. parliament has managed to win even more support than the european commission had proposed for the objectives of citizens' security and a more open europe at the level of commitments.
in writing. −it is undeniable that the 2012 budget of the european union has been shaped by the financial problems of the member states. the financial crisis is affecting the union severely because of its economic vulnerability. however, i am pleased to announce that the eu institutions have finally agreed to adopt a modest, frugal budget. the main priority now is to restore the financial system, which requires job creation, employment growth and investment to stimulate economic growth. i believe that the prerequisite for all this is the adoption and implementation of a responsible budget, which i believe should be accompanied by strict economic discipline. these requirements apply not only to the union but also to each member state. it is worth noting that with the adoption of the new hungarian fundamental law, domestic fiscal law has also undergone a major reform in order to effectively manage the crisis and stimulate the economy. constitutional provisions now state that hungary operates according to the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable budgetary management. the hungarian parliament and the government of the day bear the primary responsibility for the implementation of this principle.
in writing. − the report aims to make financial instruments regulation clearer and more differentiated. the member states' experience with the use of financial instruments was very positive in the 2000-2006 programming period and they have continued to use these instruments in the 2007-2013 period accordingly. i am pleased that the european commission wants to clarify the use of an existing instrument. in order to provide the commission with adequate information on the implementation of financial instruments, it is essential that specific reporting provisions are introduced in relation to them, but i consider it important to underline that more rigorous supervision of financial instruments by the european commission should not result in a significant increase in the reporting and administrative burden for member states.
in writing. − the european union is facing a prolonged economic and financial crisis which is having a very negative impact on the member states' budgets and macroeconomic stability. the use of regional resources is thus seriously jeopardised, as it is becoming increasingly difficult to secure the member state's share of co-financing. in this context, the european commission's proposal to temporarily increase the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points for eu member states facing particular difficulties in terms of public debt and financial stability is welcome. the total cohesion policy support for the countries concerned (hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece, ireland) would remain unchanged overall. i am pleased that there was no major disagreement between the political groups and that the negotiations were concluded in a short time, so that the report can be voted on at the current plenary session and the payment of the grant can begin at the beginning of 2012.
in writing. − i am concerned that the canary islands have been particularly hard hit by the financial and economic crisis, with unemployment more than doubling in the island as a result of the crisis (26.2% in 2009, compared to between 10.4% and 12% between 2001 and 2007). increasing employment is a fundamental objective of the european union's regional policy, and this objective is given special emphasis in times of economic crisis. in the light of all this, i consider it appropriate to extend the period of application of the tax credit for products produced in the canary islands by one year.
in writing. − the development of the outermost regions of the union, particularly the french overseas departments, is hampered by their remoteness, small size and unfavourable hilly and climatic conditions. this is the reason why the french authorities are able to grant a reduction in excise duty on traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments in the european territory. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the union's particular attention to supporting and upgrading the most disadvantaged regions, and this aspect should be consistently applied in the negotiations on the future of cohesion policy.
in writing. − one of the five priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and to increase the proportion of 30-34 year olds with a university degree or equivalent to at least 40%. in hungary, the rate of dropouts in 2009 was 11.2 percent, and the rate of those aged 30-34 with a university degree or equivalent was 23.9 percent. it is also true that in our country, school dropout is particularly common among poor and disadvantaged children. in the case of roma children, further measures are needed to achieve the goal of education that provides everyone with an equal chance of success. i support this report with my vote, which follows the political agreement reached in parliament during the hungarian presidency on reducing the number of early school leavers.
in writing. − roma pupils are frequently subject to low-quality education throughout the eu, often aggravated by segregated education and gypsy-only classrooms. their difficulties in receiving quality education result in their astoundingly low educational achievements: 20% of roma children are not enrolled in school, 30% are early school leavers and some 50% of roma are illiterate or semi-illiterate. local governments must take appropriate measures for the reintegration of early school leavers up to the maximum age of compulsory education and the institution must inform the parents and the local government about school-leavers. assistance mechanisms, such as scholarships and mentoring support should be established for young roma, to inspire them not only to obtain diplomas, but also to enrol in higher education. a system of perks should also be considered, which would increase the participation of roma youth in such institutions and improve their qualifications. teachers who teach underprivileged students or are employed in lagging-behind regions should be financially compensated and receive appropriate training. it is also necessary to create specific programmes targeting pre-school education and to develop semi-boarding programmes and ‘tutoring’ in schools, simultaneously targeting the adult age group with vocational training and lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. − croatia's accession negotiations to the european union have been ongoing for six years. the european people's party and hungary strongly supported the inclusion of croatia in the negotiations. i also voted in favour of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and the council decision accepting its application for accession. the draft accession treaty was drawn up in the council with the agreement of hungary. the hungarian interests were identified in the document during the drafting process, which took more than a year. croatia is scheduled to become the 28th member state of the union on 1 july 2013. however, i would draw attention to the continued need for croatia to cooperate with the icty (international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia), to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and to continue the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. − we all remember that the accession of croatia to the eu was a high priority in the programme of the hungarian eu presidency. at this historic moment, when we have voted overwhelmingly in favour of croatia becoming a full eu member state, i consider it particularly important to underline the enormous efforts made by the hungarian presidency to conclude the accession negotiations. i am pleased to say that the commitment of the hungarians has paid off. today, with the european parliament's approval of croatia's accession, we have opened a new chapter in the life of the union. enlargement is a clear demonstration of the power of european integration. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that the ratification of the accession treaty by the member states and the croatian referendum are still ahead of us, but if all goes according to plan, croatia will join the european union in july 2013. in my opinion, today's decision is in the best interest of all concerned. accession is of great importance not only for croatia but also for hungary and all the countries of the region. however, i am confident that enlargement will also be able to give the union a new impetus.
in writing. − with the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia, a six-year process is coming to an end. the resolution states that the european parliament supports the signing of the accession treaty, as i have also expressed my opinion by voting in favour. the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia strengthens the credibility of the eu enlargement process and the prospect of further european integration promotes reconciliation and good neighbourly relations with non-eu countries. in the western balkans, this is very much needed even today, especially in times of such economic crisis. it is of the utmost importance in the accession process that a country is judged on its own merits and that member states refrain from bringing bilateral disputes into the accession process. i agree that croatia has a further responsibility to fulfil the commitments it has made in the negotiations, including in the areas of home affairs, judicial reform and fundamental rights. strengthen the capacity of its administrative bodies in the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the crisis has made it clear to all of us that the union needs to exercise stricter budgetary control. accordingly, our primary objective in the european semester is to coordinate the fiscal and economic policies of the member states, in line with the stability and growth pact and the eu 2020 economic strategy. our priority now is to create an effective instrument at community level to prevent future sovereign debt crises! however, the introduction of more stringent sanctions is an essential condition for this. the six-pack of legislation drawn up under the hungarian presidency has its greatest merit in placing the emphasis on controlling public expenditure and the importance of the debt criterion. while greater coordination of member states' economic policies is necessary, it is not sufficient to overcome the crisis. in order to manage the consequences of the recession and to be able to develop a sustainable economic policy, stricter budgetary control is essential. hungary is already on this path. unfortunately, our country is one of the most indebted countries in europe. and the current extraordinary level of our national debt is the result of the irresponsible management of previous socialist governments. in order to put an end to the indebtedness of our country once and for all, hungary has this year adopted at the fundamental level provisions on a responsible budget and the limit on public debt. i suggest that the member states of the european union follow the example of the new hungarian basic law. let's have a constitutional barrier to debt so there's not another greek, irish or portuguese crisis.
in writing. − although there is a slight decrease of new hiv infections on a global scale, the numbers in the eu and neighbouring countries are still rising. according to estimates, almost 30% of european hiv-positive people are totally unaware of their status, resulting in their 3.5 times higher probability of transmitting the virus. additionally, half of the infected prove to be late for care and progress to late stages of the infection before even being diagnosed. women and girls are disproportionately affected by hiv and aids and current prevention options – such as condoms and abstinence – have proven inadequate in handling the risks that those women face, who are married, want children or are exposed to sexual violence. the four-year action plan of the commission to reduce new hiv infection throughout europe must be fully implemented, with special regard to improving access to prevention, treatment and care as well as improving the life conditions of those already infected by hiv. in a broader perspective, universal access to health care, as well as to std and hiv/aids-related prevention, care and support must be facilitated and key populations must be involved in the design, implementation and monitoring.
in writing. − it would be important to have the association agreement between the european union and ukraine initialled this year. the agreement would represent a new quality in the relations between the european union and ukraine and could be considered as an important step towards a free trade agreement between the european union and ukraine, closer cooperation in the field of energy and visa-free travel for ukraine. however, the ukrainian leadership should abandon the attempt to hold yulia tymoshenko accountable for a previous political decision, based on a law dating back to soviet times and applied selectively. the possibility should be provided for the appeal procedure to be conducted in a clean manner by the ukrainian judiciary. the case highlights the need for significant progress in ukraine to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and to curb corruption. the independence of the judiciary is a fundamental value that the european union must uphold not only beyond its borders but also within its borders. not only in ukraine, but also in the european union, in hungary, it can happen that a former prime minister is tried for a previous economic policy decision. the european union must also take a firm stand against politically motivated conceptual processes within its own borders.
in writing. − an adequate level of customs regulation plays an important role in improving competitiveness. to fulfil its full role, the customs system needs to be modern and efficient. i agree with the rapporteur that timely and transparent information flows between the parties concerned should be possible. in addition, close cooperation between customs administrations and market surveillance authorities should be encouraged to stop irregular products at the border. it is therefore welcome that the enhanced customs code also allows for the detention of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights, and thus constitutes one of the pillars of the union's legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights. to this end, i ask the commission and the member states to ensure that officials are properly trained to make the detection of risky products even more effective.
mr president my fellow members of parliament! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the majority of the groups in this parliament on the fact that together we have managed to get this compromise through the council. this is a very important step forward from last year. parliament has clearly voted for the knowledge economy, the innovation union, and this solution is certainly on the way. it's very important to us that a project that promotes both a knowledge-based economy, a new type of energy economy and a carbon-reducing solution is finally being addressed in its own right. we consider it very important to continue this trend in the next budgetary framework. knowledge must be more important than austerity! austerity at all costs will never in itself lead to the success of the european union. i myself regret that six countries expressed their disagreement. i sincerely hope that next fiscal year we will not be taking funds from the competitiveness chapter. (the intervener undertakes to reply to a question by a yellow card (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. parliament's position on this issue is clear: we support the community approach to research and development. we support the community method here too, not intergovernmental agreements. this is a message to the council: the community method, by decision of the european parliament.
my fellow members of parliament! we live in a time when the european union has been trying for years to impose unnecessary rules on the member states. we live in a time when the european union is constantly trying to undermine the sovereignty of nations. that is why it is good that at this difficult time, issues such as the european protection order are being raised. but i would caution everyone that there are two sides to every coin, and this is a double-edged sword. because, of course, it can also be used for good: for victims of usury crimes, or for women's running. but at the same time, we should not just talk about ugly, evil, male chauvinists, but we should also talk about cases where, in certain situations of family conflict, women may abuse this opportunity. so i'm asking everyone to think about how we can regulate the possibility of abuse not happening. because the family is sacred and inviolable. the safety and unity of the family is paramount, but protection must be guaranteed. i'm also very pleased that the protection of children was mentioned by one of my colleagues... let me stress that it is very important to protect children and punish pedophiles with the most brutal means. thank you so much for listening. (the intervener undertakes to reply to a question by a yellow card (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. it is possible that my honourable colleague misunderstood what he said. of course, this is not the fault of the interpreters, for they do an excellent job. we're going to vote on it. i'm going to vote yes! yes, it is a step forward. but i also expressed my concern that there might be a number of loopholes. and i emphasized the importance of regulating the possibility that these loopholes could not be exploited in family conflict -- precisely for the protection of victims and the safety of families. but we're going to vote.
in writing. in our world of economic crisis, violence is taking its toll, and it is not stopping at our borders. in the past year, the number has jumped: if you look at just the number of people between 18 and 34, 14 percent of them have been victims of domestic violence, domestic abuse. this is why it is so important that, despite the great diversity of legal traditions in the field of justice in different countries, we are able to act at a community level in more and more areas for the protection of victims across borders, whether women or children. the vote tomorrow on the final approval of the directive is a great success and an important moment. i am very pleased that the hungarian presidency, alongside poland, will be able to share in this success. i can only hope that member states will start transposing the directive into national law without delay.
in writing. – we are about two weeks after the international day for the elimination of violence against women. it was a symbolic day to remind us about the ‘ugly face of abuse’ and the terrifying numbers got more attention than usual: more women between the age of 16 and 44 die because of violence than because of cancer or traffic accidents. every third woman is a victim of violence during her life. we have said many times before and i will say again: it is our responsibility to protect these victims! the european protection order is a very important step in this direction. furthermore, victims (not ‘only’ women) of all kinds of violence will enjoy the same protection in every member state which can contribute – via inspiring european criminal law – towards realising a european area of justice. i think the day when the regulation on the epo is applicable (in three years) will be an important day. it may not be an international day of anything but, more importantly, it will give victims a real chance for protection – throughout europe, an equal treatment of protection, no matter which member state they choose to live in. this is why we are here.
the ageing societies of the european union are in great need of regulated migrants, workers who contribute to the competitiveness of the union, to the maintenance of our social security system. in the coming years, about 700,000 workers will be lost in the it sector, and nearly 2 million workers in health care. europe is becoming less attractive to highly qualified workers from third countries. it's less than the united states of america, or canada, or australia, or switzerland. to make us more attractive, it is important to have a common migration policy, and this proposal, the single permit directive, is a big step in that direction. after lengthy negotiations, a political compromise was reached on the scope of the directive. there was also a great deal of debate about equal treatment. we are glad that the portability of pensions, the right to further vocational training, finally came into play. i would say to my epp colleagues that our abstention meant, expressed that we wanted to achieve more in the negotiations. we need to continue this work in several areas to have a truly common european migration policy. on the one hand, there are delays in the transposition and application of the adopted directives in the blue card. but progress is also needed on the directive on intra-corporate transfers and seasonal workers. i would like to conclude by saying that if europe is to be truly competitive, it must open its labour market to workers from the new member states. we're going to talk about romania, bulgaria, partly in seasonal work, partly in highly skilled work.
my fellow members of parliament! i am glad that mrs reding is tackling the issue of immigration and third country workers at the same time, because it raises three problems. the first is that third country workers cannot be treated differently, at least i cannot treat them differently than strikebreakers in a strike. because europe sees that it doesn't know what to do with its own workers, with unemployment, so it chooses the easy way out: let's bring in workers from outside europe, cheap, cheap labor, and it doesn't care about the problems of the european people. i would just like to draw the attention of my honourable colleagues to the fact that the main reason for their being here in the european parliament is to deal with the problems of the european people. we must first of all reduce unemployment in europe and not unemployment in africa, if that is the case. the second problem i would like to bring to your attention is the pay gap. well, first of all, you have to make sure that a hungarian worker earns the same as a german, french or italian worker. and the third is the issue of immigration itself. immigration in europe must be stopped immediately, as you can see from what happened in london, madrid and berlin. this will also happen in those member states where there are similar critical social tensions. thank you very much for your attention.
my fellow members of parliament! i would like to respond to the provocative speech made by mr kozlík. i have already taken the initiative here in strasbourg, in this chamber, after the slovak language law was passed and the beneš decrees were upheld, to impose sanctions on slovakia by the european union. now, with no sanctions, slovakia is continuing its run on the highway. and let's say that slovakia, the slovak government, has the goal of erasing the upper hungarian population of over half a million people from the map of the upper hungary. to do this, they even take slovak citizenship away from hungarians in the countryside. the inhumanity of the slovak government is also shown by the fact that last week a 100-year-old hungarian teacher was stripped of her slovak citizenship. and slovakia will continue to pursue this cowardly, anti-hungarian, racist attitude until it is fined or sanctioned by the european union. even if it means temporary suspension from the european union. thank you very much for your attention.
my fellow members of parliament! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr sturdy on the preparation of his report, but i cannot agree with him politically or economically at the moment. non-tariff restrictions are understandable, given the economic crisis and the countries' attempts to protect their national economies. well, open trade has led to national economies becoming poorer in the sense that they have not been able to reduce unemployment in their own countries. so what we need is not more open economy generation, but national self-determination, food self-determination. patriotic economies that cooperate as strong economies in an economic alliance. and keeping the market open, but focusing on the local economy, on the local markets, is creating the new foundation on which europe's economy can rebuild.
president, dear colleagues: not enough! we are thinking of moving forward within the european union, with the involvement of parliaments. we want a solution that gets the economy going. it's a response to the problems that are straining society. which doesn't leave millions of people, especially young people, without hope. which doesn't push them into extreme political movements. chairman, please. i have to ask you, as a hungarian, what happened between thursday night and friday morning? the hungarian prime minister laid down his weapon and surrendered. or in less than four hours he made the damascus journey and saul became paul. or you were wrong at your press conference this morning when you put hungary and england in the same group. we hungarians have a right to know what happened between thursday night and friday morning!
i would like to draw the attention of mr rompuy, mr barroso and all of you to the fact that a false, even self-deceptive, nationalist debate has been taking place in hungary. it's as if the treaty on monetary union is a significant limitation of our national sovereignty. this is dangerous because it could spread to other countries. this agreement will undoubtedly restrict the freedom of movement of national politicians, but it will also restrict the possibility of irresponsible, bad decisions. what could be more important than the interests of the citizens? beyond the too long control of democratic elections every four years, this financial union requires fiscal and economic discipline from all governments, present and future. the orbán government should not play the role of a reluctant eu member. the hungarian national interest clearly requires that we join the monetary union as soon as possible.
in writing. the current summit has not created an easy situation from a legal point of view. what we expected was not achieved, stability was not achieved, and the confidence of the markets was not restored. of course, it is worth considering whether this should be the priority or whether it should be preceded by the restoration of the trust of european citizens. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2007-2013. although we have an intergovernmental agreement on the substance of the matter, which balances the national budget, has a corrective mechanism to reduce the deficit and automatic sanctions in the event of an excessive deficit procedure, it is not formally clear how we can put all this into practice. the pact reached at the summit can only be implemented if the community method for implementing it is found as soon as possible. at the same time, however, it should not be forgotten that, in addition to measures to promote stability, the necessary steps towards economic growth would continue to be lifesaving, but unfortunately these were not discussed at this summit. the targets for job creation and economic growth have once again been overshadowed. we must also not forget that this new agreement also created new national commitments, so those countries - including hungary - that commit their support to the pact to parliamentary authorisation are right.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. it is clear that the financial crisis affects not only the euro area but the whole union. so our most important task now is to create economic stability in europe. however, it is not at all important how this is accomplished. the agreement reached at political level last week provides for a new decision-making mechanism in an intergovernmental framework, but the treaties do not give it the authority to do so. the solution thus weakens the validity of the community method. the budget proposal to be established also seeks to regulate matters which have a significant impact on the question of the sovereignty of the member states. therefore, if an intergovernmental agreement is reached, the active involvement of national parliaments is essential, as the decision fundamentally affects the sovereignty of each country.
in writing. − welcoming the fact that the judiciary has placed more emphasis on the minimum standards applicable to criminal proceedings, and that the legislators and other stakeholders have taken account of the views of the children. as soon as the case is concluded, a criminal procedure during which a child witness - either a suspect or a victim - has been specially required, the tests for his or her protection by the competent authorities must be taken into account. a child-aldozaten is much larger than a child-aldozaten. i therefore welcome the fact that the legislation on the right to information has taken all these aspects into account and i hope that this attitude will become defining in the development of the directive on the right to information for lawyers. in addition, i would like to highlight hungary's efforts to promote and strengthen the commitment of children to the judiciary, including the creation of an internet portal entitled gyermekbarát igazságszolgáltatás, and the publication of a 2012 yearbook on the judiciary.
in writing. − the candidate has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2006 and has worked in luxembourg with a high level of competence, which makes him suitable for re-election as an auditor. since april 2011 chairman of chamber iii and member of the administrative committee. he was previously an auditor at the belgian national audit office, a mayor, a member of the european parliament, an adviser to the minister of finance and finally the minister responsible for defence and agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises. in these roles, he has acquired unparalleled professional knowledge. he has produced five reports in his career at the court and is currently responsible for the 2011 statement of assurance. it stresses that every european taxpayer has the right to know how the eu budget is spent. it is important that the candidate considers effective cooperation with the european parliament to be one of his main objectives. the extension of the mandate of the belgian candidate should be supported.
in writing. − the danish candidate has been working for the danish court of auditors for more than 30 years, and has been its director and president for more than 20 years. since 2004 he has also been the chairman of the intosai standardization committee. your professional experience and your work to date will be considered for funding. in addition to his thorough knowledge of public finance control methods, he has always carried out his work in the spirit of transparency and accountability. the candidate's independence is also ensured by his/her previous career and he/she fully meets the conflict of interest criteria. according to the candidate, the european court of auditors is the committee on budgetary control's most important and number one partner and it is therefore important that there is a continuous and effective dialogue between the two bodies. at the commission hearing, it was reported that its objective is to develop reliable performance indicators and to establish appropriate internal control systems in the area of efficiency and effectiveness. in his work, he intends to place a strong emphasis on traceability. the candidate is suited for the post of european accountant, so i support his application.
in writing. − the spanish candidate was nominated by the previous spanish government as a member of the european court of auditors. since the nomination, spain has held elections to form a new government. the pp group in the european parliament has requested a postponement of the vote on the nominee in order to allow the new spanish government to confirm the nomination of the member of the court of auditors, if it considers it appropriate. this is important because the spanish candidate will have the appropriate legitimacy, as he will be working under the leadership of a highly prestigious institution such as the european court of auditors, and this requires that all members of the court of auditors have full legitimacy.
in writing. − ville itälä has a long experience in public administration, as evidenced by his work as minister of the interior of finland and as a staff member of the national bank of finland and the finnish independence jubilee fund. his experience in the fields of asset management, accounting, bookkeeping and administrative control is outstanding. as a minister, he played a leading role in implementing a strict fiscal policy that helped to revive the finnish economy. under his ministry, the new budgetary system and the new, transformed funding model in the finnish police administration were introduced. his previous career and work in the committee on budgets and budgetary control of the european parliament provide him with the appropriate professional background to fill the post of european auditor. his answers to the committee's questions indicate that he wishes to carry out his work in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. on the basis of his statement before the committee, he supports the committee on budgetary control in strengthening its role and relevance in the field of budgetary control. it also shares the committee's view that parliament should be granted access to all documents necessary for carrying out checks.
in writing. − the applicant has decades of experience in the field of financial control. he spent 27 years in the civil service, including as under-secretary of state and later as chief secretary to the treasury. during his work at the ministry of finance, he was also responsible for the planning and implementation of the budget and participated in the management of budgetary control. in addition to his career in ireland, he has gained experience as deputy director and director of the european investment bank which qualifies him for the post of auditor. he also gained extensive experience in tax and pension policy and was involved as an adviser in the consolidation process following the irish banking crisis. it also participated in the design and implementation of the eu/imf/ireland support programme. the court of auditors and its staff consider the guarantee of independence to be one of its main objectives and state in a statement that they will be able to ensure full independence in their work. in his replies, he assured the panel that there could be no conflict of interest with regard to his person. it also aims to integrate the risk management and risk reduction strategy into the union's financial management. in its work, it wishes to place greater emphasis on close cooperation with the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control. your professional training and attitude make you a suitable candidate for the position.
in writing. − the candidate has decades of experience in the italian public administration. it is important to note that, as head of the italian member's office, he has gained considerable experience in the following areas: the european regional development fund, the european agricultural guarantee fund, and the monitoring of community own resources and aid to third countries. he was heavily involved in performance audits in these areas and in the fight against fraud in the control of payments. the candidate is also a member of the scientific committee of the centre for the monitoring of organised crime. he was also a member and former chairman of the audit board of the european defence agency. his knowledge of languages also makes him a suitable candidate for the post of accountant, and in addition to his mother tongue, he has an advanced knowledge of four european languages. in his answers to the committee, mr russo explained that he would like to work in the spirit of impartiality, transparency, openness and independence, with a strong focus on identifying and analysing financial risks, clarity of external-internal communication and the development of more effective internal control and audit. in its work, it also intends to address the question of how to harmonise the work of national audit institutions and the european court of auditors in the audit of eu funds. your qualifications qualify you for the position, and your candidacy is to be supported.
in writing. - vítor manuel da silva caldeira has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2000. initially, it was responsible for the european union's banking activities and for the control of the european agencies. from 2002, he is elected as a member of the court of auditors responsible for the das, which audits the union's annual accounts and issues the declaration of assurance. he has been president of the european court of auditors since 2008 and was elected president of the institution in 2011 for a further three years. he has a high level of professional experience, acquired in previously held financial management positions. as president, he is also responsible for overseeing the work of the institution, its relations with the eu institutions and international audit bodies, and its internal audit. as regards his future plans, the candidate said that he would be leading the development of the european court of auditors' strategy for the period after 2013. it aims to enable the organisation to better exploit the benefits of the new internal rules and to promote effective and public accountability. your qualifications and vision make you a suitable candidate for the position, and i support your candidacy.
in writing. − the candidate for the court of auditors has been a member of the organisation since 2011, has gained relevant experience in his professional career, and has held the post of state secretary in several ministries. during his term as president, he was rapporteur for the external aid, development and enlargement section of the court's annual report. he is also a member of the court of auditors, responsible for food security and external aid to the 'fragile states'. in its work, it intends to make an active contribution to the control tasks relating to external aid, which have recently been given a high priority by the committee on budgetary control. the main objective is to give greater emphasis to improving performance and organisational efficiency in the court's next strategy, and to give high priority to accountability and transparency. in his statement, he said that he expected the conclusions and recommendations contained in the court's report to be much clearer and more relevant. his objectives, vision and professional background are such as to justify the european parliament's approval for the extension of his mandate as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − hungary participated as an initiating country in the creation of the european protection order. i voted in favour, along with the vast majority of my colleagues, of the european parliament's legislative resolution on this subject on 14 december 2010. as a lawyer, i consider it extremely important that a directive has been drawn up which will define the measures by which the executing state may continue to protect a person against a crime committed by another person which may endanger his life, physical or mental integrity, dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity. i agree with the council's amendment to the first reading, which relates to the scope of the instrument, i.e. it establishes a closer link between the possibility of issuing a european protection order and the commission of a criminal offence. i am voting in favour of the council's position at first reading on european defence policy.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i cannot support this report with my vote, it would encourage immigration from the third world. jobbik for hungary proposes that europe's demographic and employment problems should be solved not by increasing immigration but by reforming the family support system and by valuing european workers. immigration from the third world into the eu must be stopped immediately and europe must draw strength from its national traditions. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this has been an interesting – and i think very important – debate, not least because, in the context of looking at the economic situation that member states and institutions find themselves in, it is absolutely vital that we discuss how best to make sure that we are able to respond to some of the crises and security threats that we are faced with as individual nations, as parliamentarians and as institutions. i do not think that anyone in this house will be surprised to know that this forms part of the discussions that i have on a regular basis with secretary-general rasmussen and when i take part in nato meetings, at their request, both in foreign minister and defence minister formation. it is really vital that we understand what it is we want to try to achieve and how best to go about it. it is worth remembering the kind of missions that our people are currently engaged in and how those missions work effectively with others that are also operating in the field, not least nato. let me remind honourable members that we have monitoring missions operating in georgia as a result of the crisis that georgia faced when russia behaved as it did in august 2008. we still have people now who are helping to make sure that there is confidence built on the borders and making sure that people are able to go about their business in an ordinary way. a number of people have talked about the horn of africa and the incredible work that the atalanta mission does, made up of different member states which very willingly bring together their expertise, their ships and their helicopters, led by the british in northwood – very effectively by admiral potts currently serving in command from northwood – and actually playing a vital role in ensuring that the world food programme can deliver food to people who are literally starving, and helping to support countries which are grappling with how to tackle piracy off their coasts, the threat that poses for individuals, the threat of hostage taking and hijacking, and the threat for those who rely on tourism. these are really important issues where the european union has a contribution to make, not trying to do what nato does but doing things with nato. perhaps the best example to illustrate this is what is happening currently in kosovo, with eulex kosovo providing what is called the second response line: police officers willing to go in to try to stop the kind of violence that we have witnessed recently in the north of kosovo, working hand in hand with kfor, with the nato forces which are there as the third response unit. this is an international operation because the dangers and difficulties of what has happened between serbia and kosovo required us all to provide an international response. member states freely and willingly want to engage together in a way in which they think they can be effective, which is to provide this kind of police support. that is quite different to what nato is doing in providing its military support. throughout all of these operations we work very closely with nato. indeed, when we were involved with nato in discussing how best we could support what was occurring in libya, nato was very conscious of being engaged in a military fashion, yet needing others to think about how to engage military assets, the kind of equipment that you need in order to support humanitarian aid. so all i would say to those who are worried about the overlap is that we work incredibly hard to make sure that does not exist and we respond to the support that nato needs and the way in which member states want to take this forward. i do not have to remind anyone that, as you look around at what is happening in countries to which we are close or where we are operating, there are many issues to be concerned about, as i was especially aware when i met the four ministers from the sahel over the last few days. they are looking at our comprehensive and strategic approach to how we support them with their concerns about the hunger of their citizens, about terrorism and their worries about arms now moving down from libya into the sahel. they need a comprehensive approach to help them do this and that means thinking about how to support them in a security way as well. we have also got to remember that the european defence agency is working collaboratively with nato. again, improvised explosive devices are a problem that affects not only our servicemen and women from all over the world in afghanistan, but in many other parts of the world too. if you can provide a joined-up way of actually looking at how you can identify where those explosive devices might be, who might have made them, the kind of signature that is left by those who make bombs of different kinds, if you can do that you can save lives everywhere. so if this is done by people who can provide the expertise working together, it seems to me an effective use of time, effort and resources. i agree with those who say we also need to think about cyber defence and the importance of how we might respond to that. in this regard we have been approached by the us deputy secretary of defense to work with them because one of the challenges in cyber defence is that it does not stop at member state borders, but works across them. many of the industries and businesses who are most challenged by cyber defence are european as regards their outlets, factories and businesses. they often are a combination of different countries’ businesses working together. so it is logical to try to think of things across the european union when that makes greater sense. i want to say two things to end with. first of all, i agree with all those who say that most of our work should be preventative, that the mediation, the work we do on conflict prevention and using resources to try to prevent conflicts and prevent problems is absolutely right. i agree with that wholeheartedly. again, that is complementary to those engaged in theatre in other ways. i agree with what has also been said about the need to be extremely proud of the servicemen and women who are operating in theatre at the present time. as we move to what, for us, is the christmas and holiday season, i am very conscious that men and women are serving across the world and, especially, as was mentioned, in afghanistan. i am extremely proud of the work that they do and i know that members of this house are too. finally, a word for mrs dodds because she asked me a very specific question about whether we should make sure that those doing lonely, complex jobs in places like afghanistan actually have the procedures that will help them and that we should get the procedures right. in response to that, can i agree with her and pay tribute to mr white for the incredible work that he did in iraq.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2011 at 11.30.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy human rights
as an election observer in moscow, i also said that there was no fair political competition, no equality of opportunity between the parties - mostly in the case of the bad electoral law, the party law and free access to the media. at the same time, i would like to warn my fellow mps that it would be disproportionate to demand a repeat of the elections. this is not the way to influence russia, but to strongly warn russian politicians to organize the presidential election correctly, cleanly. i agree with all those who spoke before me, the united russia party has suffered serious losses, lost its constitutional majority. russian democracy has advanced by not having a constitutional majority for the leading governing party. and not only is there a strong opposition within parliament, but the demonstrations in the streets show that russia is dissatisfied with the results of modernization.
my fellow members of parliament! for a few speeches on the european neighbourhood policy, i felt that we were not living in a single europe. i have often heard him say that the problems of the countries neighbouring the european union are more important to a few of the members than the problems of the european union itself. everyone, we all acknowledged that the arab spring is a good thing, a good thing. we all want the institutions of democracy to be strengthened, to be built up in the neighbouring states. but, commissioner füle, if i heard you correctly, you said that we were spending 350 million euros on the new spring programme, for example. please, europe is in trouble. with that kind of money, think of the jobs that could have been created, the factories, the processing plants that could have been built in europe, that would have served the interests of the people of europe. europe does have to protect its borders, europe does have to protect its markets.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i'm sorry to hear that mrs. de lange has left. i hope your fellow mps won't defend the stupid things you said. because there is no populist, liberal or socialist juice. you either have good quality juice or you have bad quality juice. that is why i fully support the proposal before us. i have already stressed, a few months ago, in the debate on the directive on food labelling, that the regulation must be primarily in the interests of consumers. in the case of fruit juices, it is particularly important to identify methods of misleading consumers. it's a pity mrs. de lange doesn't know that. the general belief about these products is that they are of natural origin and healthy. that's not what this is about. consumers are deceived in many cases. at present, the packaging of fruit juices may contain a number of indications which are liable to mislead the consumer. the directive rightly seeks to eliminate those practices. i agree that we should prohibit manufacturers from displaying on the packaging fruit which is not included in the packaged fruit juice. i also think it is appropriate to make it compulsory to clearly indicate that the fruit juice is made from concentrate and to prohibit the use of the term 'fresh fruit juice' in such cases. it's important to point out if you've added artificial flavor enhancers to your juice. and fruit juices should be clearly distinguished from fruit nectar produced from concentrate or powder with a high sugar content. all these requirements are in the interests of consumers, and i therefore agree with the proposal, the directive.
i think all of us in this room agree with the basic tenets of this report. but the magic number, as my colleague mr kelly put it, is that 82% of the fruit juice in the european union comes from imports. and in order to comply with the directive, to achieve a healthy, normal ratio, we need to increase fruit production in europe. on the other hand, the percentage of fruit juices from european fruit in fruit juices available in the european union should be increased. it is extremely ambivalent to talk about this while at the same time, at the behest of the european union, at the instigation of the european union, huge orchards in central and eastern europe are being cut down. in hungary, for example, the european union is forcing farmers to cut down orchards. and if the european union spent a fraction of what it spends on replanting fruit farms, on rebooting the processing industry, on what it spends on african countries, then all of eastern europe would be flourishing!
it's a two-card draw. we thank mr. newton dunn for his report. i shall vote in favour of this report, but my question is whether this report is currently concerned with reducing the phosphate content of detergents. when will there be a strategy that will include, say, fertilizer? when we reduce the phosphate content there, too, because the report says it's fertilizer, but like water, it's not dangerous. now, in many cases, this can actually threaten water supplies, groundwater supplies. so will there be a strategy, and if so, when will it be developed?
mr prime minister! my fellow members of the house of representatives! i commend the polish presidency for standing up to the challenge. despite the extraordinary economic situation, as a hungarian representative, let me also say that, well balanced with the legacy of the hungarian presidency, you have carried out your programme. the sixth package of measures to strengthen the common economic governance has finally entered into force. it is a good thing that the treaty of accession of croatia was signed a few days ago. and yes, the success of the eastern partnership summit. the polish presidency has also mobilised a great deal of energy policy. the commission has been given a mandate to negotiate with the eu in order to strengthen import competition. this will make the eu's action towards third countries more effective, in the common interest of 500 million european consumers. the start of negotiations on the caspian gas pipeline system is also a significant achievement. this could significantly improve the security of supply in the union. finally, we continue to work with all our might to achieve the single market, which can reduce the disparities between the energy markets of the member states. my fellow members of parliament! the above examples show that the successive hungarian and polish presidencies have achieved significant results in the past year, reinforcing each other. as a result, europe was undoubtedly stronger in these areas in 2011.
mr president my fellow members of the house of representatives! the polish presidency has chosen progress over staying, openness over turning in, efficiency over noise, and the union over defiant secession! so we can say: "polska, europa, dwa bratanki, i do sabli, i do szklanki" - and that's what we are doing.
in writing. mr prime minister, dear members of the house of representatives! six months ago, in my speech at the inauguration of the polish presidency, i said that central europe has never been more at the heart of the eu. we have to prove that the enlargement of the european union has been a success! i think we have succeeded in this, hungary and poland have also successfully overcome this obstacle, and we can all be proud of that! at the same time, i asked the polish presidency to pay attention to the disabled. this was a major issue in the previous spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency. unfortunately, my concern was not unfounded: the polish presidency has not continued the work it had started in this area, which is unacceptable to me. i hope the danish presidency will put an end to this scourge. i believe that 80 million people with disabilities deserve to be treated with dignity by successive presidents.
in writing. the polish and hungarian nations have a centuries-old friendship. no wonder, because before the most unjust dictatorship in world history, the tragedy of trianon, hungary and poland were neighbouring countries. in the light of this historical common heritage, i respectfully ask the polish government to do everything in the few days remaining before the eu presidency so that the hungarians in the carpathian basin can freely live out their national identity and, in particular, in slovakia, to guarantee the free use of the hungarian language for the hungarians in the upper carpathian basin. i wish our polish friends more good work.
in writing. during the polish presidency, we have made significant progress in both enlarging the european union and deepening integration. in september, a six-pack of legislation to deepen eu economic governance was agreed. in december, the accession treaty was signed for croatia and it was decided that accession negotiations with montenegro could start next year. i hope that in february a decision will be taken on granting serbia candidate status. the polish presidency was able to build on the successes of the hungarian eu presidency's excellent work on vocational training. on economic governance, the hungarian presidency managed to build consensus in almost all areas, and it was also during the hungarian presidency that the croatian accession negotiations were concluded. in the case of hungary, the professional work was successful, while the poles showed a clear commitment to the european union. they did not make any eurosceptic statements, as viktor orbán has allowed himself to do on several occasions. while the polish government sought national consensus during the eu presidency, and this willingness to cooperate was also reflected in the brussels forums, the hungarian government postponed the adoption of a media law restricting freedom of speech and a new one-party constitution curtailing the rule of law until the eu presidency. the deteriorating international standing of the hungarian government has overshadowed the professional performance of the rotating presidency.
in writing. − i accept the commission's proposal, which proposes three amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006, which measures do not require additional expenditure. the first involves moving iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries to the list of candidate countries. the european people's party has always supported the enlargement process in the western balkan countries and iceland has already started accession negotiations, as it meets by far the copenhagen criteria. i agree with the commission's second amendment proposal, which would allow participation in cbc programmes cross-border cooperation programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) only for local actors. as a border country of the european union, it is in hungary's interest to limit the possibility of participation in calls for proposals to applicants from countries participating in the relevant ipa cbc programmes. in our neighbourhood, there was one potential candidate country, serbia. i also support the third amendment, which is designed to enable the phare committee to continue to assist the commission in the management of financial aid to the turkish cypriot community.
in writing. − in order to more effectively promote democracy, human rights, social justice and the rule of law within the wider region, the european neighbourhood policy needs to be adjusted following the political and economic developments of the related neighbouring states. as the rapporteurs point out, it is necessary to differentiate between the policy’s southern and eastern dimension to target the specific properties and needs of each geographical area. those regions that extend beyond the external borders of the eu must be involved in development cooperation in the wider sense, for example the european groupings of territorial cooperation. sub-regional and cross-border cooperation needs also to be promoted and euroregions might serve as a catalyst for realising the goals of cohesion policy with special regard to border regions.
in writing. − i rejected the report on the eu's counter-terrorism policy because its content is unacceptable on the basis of the political views of the european people's party. the report is a one-sided, offensive and biased attack on the european union's counter-terrorism policy. the report lacks a strategic concept, as it considers that the prevention, detection and prosecution of terrorist offences are critical policies at eu level that should be part of a systematic approach based not on emergency norms but on a coherent strategy based on necessity. it points to the need to broaden and deepen strategic partnerships to counter terrorism, provided that these partnerships ensure full respect for human rights. this clause suggests that if the current actions of european counter-terrorism violate human rights. it called for a more precise assessment of the measures already taken to combat terrorism, taking into account, inter alia, fundamental rights and budgetary considerations. by this remark, it refers to an exaggeration of costs, which is an unfounded assertion. overall, the release of intelligence information examined in the report would fundamentally jeopardise european security.
in writing. − my reservations to the report are twofold: a matter of both principle and practical approach. the text’s tone is infiltrated and determined by prejudices and accusations that counter-terrorism simply keeps violating human rights, that it operates with excessive budgets and exaggerates threats. these propagandistic concepts are based on hypotheses to which no evidence was provided by the rapporteur. on the other hand, goals laid down in the report are hardly feasible in practice. one example of many: with data being classified for security reasons, to what extent and on which benchmarks should the proportionality between the cost of a preventive counter terrorism operation and the threat level be assessed? why does the rapporteur believe that either secret services of member states or eu security agencies would grant civilians access to their most sensitive data thus putting european security at risk? how could we assess proportionality without the knowledge of these extremely sensitive bits of information? as staunch supporters of accountability, the epp group stands for overseeing counter-terrorism policies, however within the established competence of designated authorities. demoralising counter-terrorism, especially nowadays, is proof of irresponsible behaviour and thus i am not in a position to support the report.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. − any initiative that encourages the expansion of transparency and the development of good administration techniques is welcome. in times of crisis, it is in the vital interest of citizens to have a clear view of the issues and facts underlying political debates and institutional decisions. but at the same time, if we were to extend access to information to the entire world and try to achieve it with a little bit of propaganda overreach, then the noble intentions could easily backfire. getting to know the documents can't be a party game. it should not cover cases where access to information infringes other fundamental rights, i am thinking in particular of the rights of sensitive individuals and, on the other hand, of the rights and interests of the community in relation to security. so if you violate or weaken these, you could reverse the very value of the pursuit. the balance of our fundamental rights must not be upset, as it is one of the guarantees of european democracies. i therefore sincerely regret that we cannot support mr cashman's otherwise important and respected report because of its excessive and one-sided conception on many points. but i'm really sorry about that, because your primary objective is very important.
my fellow citizens! mr grosch has done an excellent job, which i hope will give the right impetus to the transport sector to move forward in the right direction. i have had the opportunity to stress my view on several occasions before that an inclusive, sustainable, modern, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system is urgently needed. an important part of this is the single european passenger charter, which sets out the rules for the different transport sectors. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for mentioning disabled people in this chapter. but i don't want to talk about them exclusively. because europe, as we know, is a society that is aging severely. and we, as legislators, will be faced with the need to meet the demands in the legislative field. in the coming period, there will be a greater need for older citizens and persons with disabilities to be able to use transport freely under the same conditions. i think the message is clear in the report and i myself would like to stress that there is a real need for the european commission to come forward with a proposal to this end at the beginning of 2012.
first of all, on behalf of the jobbik delegation, let me thank you for your work so far and wish you every success in the future. well, our position is that we need to tighten the prison system, not ease it. and i would like to introduce a new concept to the public, here in the european parliament: the concept of a self-sustaining, self-sustaining prison system. the criminological significance of prisons is not only that they isolate the criminal from society for a certain period of time, but also that they have a deterrent effect. it's completely incomprehensible that in hungary, for example, the state spends 800-900 euros a month on a prisoner. but a kindergarten, a college, a high school, the state spends a fraction of that. in fact, a fraction of that is the minimum wage. a disproportionate amount that is simply incomprehensible. the detainees, in our view, in some cases, in most cases, have to bear the costs of detention. that is something that should be discussed in the future here in the european parliament!
my fellow members of parliament! the european union is strategically important and should be important in uzbekistan. not just uzbekistan, but actually the whole of the inner asian region. there are three things that must be taken into account in any agreement, if it is to be concluded between the european union and uzbekistan. the first is that the more the european union has, the better. of course, we should not be vulnerable to chinese cotton exports either, so it is good that the european union has good relations with the world's third largest cotton exporter, uzbekistan. but uzbekistan must make progress on human rights and the european union must not give in to child labour. child labor is a very serious business. i say that as a mother of two. the third requirement is that the interests of the european textile industry must also be taken into account.
in writing. i hope that the member states which still keep their labour markets closed to bulgarian and romanian workers will lift the transitional restriction early next year. no survey has confirmed previous fears that, following the accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007, their workers would flood the member states, causing serious disruption to the labour market. rather, we find that people from both countries are in the shortage of jobs and are doing jobs that have few applicants within the country. i therefore consider it unjustified that eu member states should wish to maintain the restrictions imposed on them during the final phase of the seven-year transition period. the exclusion of bulgarian and romanian nationals from the labour market of the member states opens up the possibility of semi-legal, undeclared work and of fake businesses, which is accompanied by a curtailment of workers' rights. it's important that the right job finds the right workforce. this requires member states to take seriously the eu's right to free movement of labour. it is the responsibility of the european commission to ensure that countries wishing to maintain transitional restrictions beyond 1 january 2012 do so only on the basis of convincing arguments and justification supported by credible data.
the intelligent energy europe programme is an excellent initiative from an absolutely credible source. there is no longer any doubt that the eu's energy strategies will be delivered, and that the eu's competitiveness will indeed soar, soon overtaking emerging countries and perhaps later the rest of the world. and of course, all of this in a totally sustainable way. poor chinese people are watching with trembling knees the incredible progress of the european union. or wait, if i look closer, they'll be holding their bellies in their laughter and their knees will be shaking. don't you see how you can take a teaspoon out of a sinking boat with a leak, and not put a lid on it? let's have a serious talk, my fellow members. the first step is to immediately repair the broken backbone of the energy system, as i have said many times in previous speeches. once the sick energy sector, especially electricity generation, is back on its feet, it is time to tackle the beautification, i.e. the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme. but it's not worth spending a lot of money on either. unfortunately, only 2% of the population can afford the so-called green energy at a real price, and maybe the other 98% should be considered at some point. unfortunately, despite all the talk about nuclear power plants, china has already committed to them 20 years in advance. and if we continue like this, sooner or later europe will be a canteen, lit by candles.
madam president, we have the eu 2020 strategy, we have a programme called intelligent energy europe, we have an institution called the executive agency for competitiveness and innovation and the elena facility, and the commissioner is saying to us that the best way ahead is to cut all these things. in fact, such a cut would be the most expensive way to get right away from our target! therefore, what we have to do is to improve efficiency throughout europe in order to get more smes involved. that is the way forward, and this is what parliament will stand for – debating horizon 2020, cosme and the mff in the coming months.
in writing. − the european union also provides financial support to external countries. the committee on budgetary control has prepared an own-initiative report on the financial control of union assistance to afghanistan. the european parliament also has the task of carrying out financial control of the use of resources outside the union. the report calls on the european commission to implement the recommendations made by the european court of auditors and urges the effective and rapid handling of the problems that remain. the measures proposed by the rapporteur are to be welcomed, as the control of the use of the eu budget within and outside the union is in the interest of all european citizens and therefore an obligation of the european parliament.
in writing. − i did not support the french request for aid in respect of the dismissal of 4445 people (of whom 3582 were entitled to aid) at renault and seven automotive suppliers. the report decides how european taxpayers' money is spent. i am not convinced that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be used for such a purpose, which i believe is the responsibility of the member state to address. the budget allocated to this aid application could be used by the union to help create jobs in regions where unemployment is indeed high. the history of the report shows that the aid will be paid directly to renault and peugeot and to dutch and german companies.
in writing. − i did not support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents because its content is not in line with the european people's party and my own political values. i consider it unacceptable that anyone should have access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union. furthermore, the requirement of full public access to documents is difficult to achieve in practice, and i therefore believe that full public access is not the answer to facilitate citizen participation in decision-making. it is not justified if the disclosure of these documents infringes other fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy. however, i would be happy to support a less extreme and unilateral compromise solution which is closer to the people's party's position, as the subject of the report would be extremely important.
in writing. − in the scoreboard assessments, the selection of indicators focuses on the areas most relevant to macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness developments, with particular emphasis on the smooth functioning of the euro area. i welcome the commission's statement on the data sources and statistical transformations it intends to use, and i believe that this is the right direction and i support it. it is also important that the commission takes account of the most recent data available and that it ensures full transparency as to which data are used. it is also important to stress the importance of aligning and integrating the new macroeconomic imbalance monitoring procedure with the next european semester. however, it should also be borne in mind that the scoreboard plays an important informative role, as the selection of indicators sends a clear perception-building message to policy-makers and stakeholders about the types of macroeconomic developments that may be of concern and that therefore need to be monitored more closely. in summary, economic analyses must ensure that all the information from the scoreboard or other sources is evaluated together in a comprehensive analysis, and i can therefore support any proposal to that effect.
in writing. − there are disturbing signs of the deterioration of european detention conditions, such as prison overcrowding, high proportion of pre-trial detainees or alarming occurrences of death and suicide, although appropriate conditions increase the detainees’ chances to return to society and decrease the probability of re-offending. special emphasis must be placed on the review of the detention conditions of children, as the most vulnerable of the prison population and the most in need of development and reintegration. depriving children of their freedom must be viewed as the last resort, for the shortest possible period and, when detained, they must be kept separated from adults and provided the possibility of regularly contacting their families. member states that fail to reach the level required by international obligations in terms of prison conditions and related legal guarantees must take specific steps to improve the fulfilment of fundamental rights of the detained and dedicate proper resources for restructuring and modernising their prisons. most importantly, the right to defence and the right not to be subject to degrading or inhuman treatment must be enforced and, to this end, ratifying the protocol to the convention against torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment would be beneficial.
in writing. − eu standards on the free movement of workers have evolved considerably since they were codified. encouraging the free movement of labour is of paramount importance for europe as a whole, as it increases competitiveness and boosts economic growth. that is why i welcome the outcome of today's vote. coordination at union level is in the interest of all european workers and is also a guarantee of real labour mobility. it should be noted that the expected wave of immigration has not occurred, and the actual data are not even close to the forecasts. far fewer workers than expected have entered the western european labour market since the restrictions on citizens from the countries of central and eastern europe, which joined the european union in 2004, were fully lifted in may this year. this shows that we must do everything we can to ensure that eu citizens are able to work freely throughout the european union as soon as possible, thus ensuring the completion of the single eu labour market.
in writing. − there is a growing view that enforcement alone is not enough to achieve the eu's objective of reducing accidents at work set out in the community strategy on health and safety at work. further steps are needed to ensure that prevention policies are applied to all workers and that fundamental rights to health are better respected. this report, which i support, identifies the categories of workers at risk and those not covered by prevention policies in order to provide appropriate responses. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to comply fully with the letter and spirit of the framework directive. it is important that the actors directly concerned, i.e. workers and all persons in the workplace, have the opportunity to participate in the process of identifying and preventing risks.
