madam president, in ireland two years ago, in december 2008, we had a problem. i wonder what the commission has done in the two years to avoid this current crisis. i have a specific question: member state authorities are crying out for guidelines from the directorate-general for health and consumers. on the feed hygiene regulations, they want guidance and a workshop. will you please make a commitment tonight to give them what they are requesting? i have three other points to make. we need very clearly to identify the high-risk products, the high-risk processors and the location and names of the high-risk producers, and at the very least we need total segregation of products that are destined for the animal feed chain and thus for the food chain. it is not rocket science. we also need, as others have said, controls along the way so that we detect those who continue to try and break the rules to make money. cutting costs is about cutting corners. the problem is that it costs europe billions; it takes away consumer confidence and ...... (the president cut the speaker off)
author. − madam president, we agree with the general approach of yannick jadot to this issue. i welcome any agreement that guarantees protection of the rainforests of our planet, if such agreements also advance the protection of the indigenous people of the forest and give a better life to the majority of the people in the countries concerned. it must be said at the start that both the republic of congo and cameroon have highly repressive governments. cameroon is very high in the corruption index kept by transparency international, and in the republic of congo there has been horrific exploitation of some sections of the population, notably the pygmy people, although a new law has just been passed and people will wait to see what this does to protect indigenous people. the logging industry in these countries is implicated in corruption and in the exploitation of workers and the deforestation involved is a huge threat to the livelihoods of the indigenous people. it is for this reason that the original resolution of the european united left group calls for the logging industry to be in public ownership and under democratic control, crucially involving workers in the industry and the indigenous communities in the forests affected by logging. the left’s resolution also points out that illegal logging is related to poverty levels in the countries concerned. it can provide an income for individuals and their families who would otherwise go hungry, and therefore ending illegal logging is also linked to ending the poverty and deprivation of many communities in the relevant countries. this will not be done by the corrupt local elites, nor by european multinational corporations whose key motivation is private profit, but by the forestry workers and the indigenous peoples themselves taking democratic ownership of their resources. in this sense, the people of sub-saharan africa can take inspiration from their brothers and sisters in tunisia in their heroic struggle against a corrupt dictatorship over the past weeks.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is ceist i bhfad níos tábhachtaí é seo ná an phoiblíocht a gheobhaidh sé. one of the great scandals of the 20th century was the continuous and systematic chopping down of forests, especially in the third world, done not by individuals who knew no better and cannot be faulted, but by big greedy businesses and corrupt governments. that is why this agreement is to be welcomed wholeheartedly and i hope it will be implemented, because if it is not, it will not be worth the paper it is written on. on the broader front, we also have to ensure that other policies of the european union do not contribute to continued deforestation. i am referring to the proposed agreement on mercosur which many people feel will encourage farmers to chop down the forests in those countries so that they can export agricultural products into europe. so we have to be vigilant. go raibh maith agat.
mr president, i actually came down to participate in the next debate but i have been watching this debate from my office and i am concerned, like others who have spoken in the debate here, about the idea of flexibility on rules of origin. in the last seven days there was a programme on british television, part of a whole channel four series about the fishing industry, in which, i am afraid, the european union’s fisheries policy came in for severe criticism, and we are getting lots of e-mails from concerned citizens. this specific issue did not arise, but i would just like to stand up and support those colleagues who have expressed huge concern about a proposal that is supposed to be positive as a development tool, but in fact could be quite negative, not just from a european perspective, but also for the very countries we are trying to assist.
mr president, in ireland the motto of the international adoption association is that families are made in many ways. the debate tonight reflects the interest that there is in adoption. there are over 1 200 members of that association: many have adopted and some wish to adopt. our attitudes to adoption have changed utterly. in ireland we come from a past where mothers – particularly single mothers – had their babies taken from them and given away to others to be adopted. that is not a good history, but it is certainly one that has now conditioned how we think of adoption: the child must be at the centre of it. certainly, the birth families are very important in all of this. equally, we have a duty and a responsibility to give the very best possible home to all our children. each member state – and that is the level on which this should operate – needs to protect children within its own borders. europe should provide a coordinating role. i hope that in ireland we will have a referendum on the rights of the child. we talk about it a lot, but we are not so effective in actually dealing with it. i am hopeful that the referendum will happen. the situation will certainly improve then. this has been a really useful debate and i thank colleagues for it.
mr president, the greatest gift that we can give to any child is that of a happy home. most children find that in their own home with their natural parents. many though, get this with their adoptive parents. either is preferable to an institutional life, provided of course that there is no corruption or exploitation involved. to find the balance is very difficult, but i think that we need – while taking into consideration the hague convention etc. – where there are prospective adoptive parents who are bona fide and beyond reproach, to facilitate them more in giving the gift of a happy home to a child who has not otherwise got one, and not encumbering them with lengthy, expensive, drawn-out processes. we need to get the balance right because, as a teacher, i came across many adopted children and the vast majority were in very good homes.
mr president, in december commission president barroso told me by letter that his meeting with president nazarbayev last october would help advance respect for human rights in kazakhstan. the same was said about granting kazakhstan the chair of the osce in 2010 and holding a major osce summit in astana in december. however, world leaders had scarcely left that summit when it was announced that a referendum was to be held in march to cancel the presidential election in 2012, thus keeping nazarbayev in power until 2020. harassment of the opposition press and of human rights defenders is being stepped up. activists from the left-wing movement ‘kazakhstan 2012’ are being harassed and jailed. i demand that the eu stop boosting the nazarbayev dictatorship. the independent trade union and social movements in kazakhstan must be fully supported so that they can lead mobilisation to end this dictatorship – just as people power in tunisia ended the ben ali dictatorship – and put in place structures to bring the wealth of kazakhstan into the democratic ownership of the majority.
mr president, the food supplements directive was adopted in 2002 but, almost nine years later, it has still not been fully implemented. the commission has yet to produce a proposal to harmonise the maximum amounts of vitamins and minerals that can be included in food supplements as required by the directive. this failure means that companies have to produce multiple product formulations to comply with different national laws. this is unfair and expensive, especially as a scientific model for setting maximum amounts is available. the commission itself cited this in a paper in 2006. it begs the question of why the proposal has not been produced? perhaps, to paraphrase robbie burns, whom somebody mentioned a minute ago, ‘the best laid plans of mice and men and the commission gang aft agley’. it needs to happen very soon, because eu legislation is intended to make it easier for companies to compete in the internal market by standardising requirements. the sooner it happens, the better. i urge the commission to get a move on.
mr president, i should briefly like to ask some questions. regarding the european union, i know that we are wonderful for donating aid to where it is needed, but it often goes through ngos. are there any ngos that have not been up to scratch, or that have been the subject of complaints in the countries in which they operate, or that the european union itself might have reservations about? in other words, do we just give the aid and the supplements – let us put it that way – to the ngos annually? where is the accountability? in the light of some programmes i have seen recently, i was rather concerned about allegations being made as to what some of the ngos were doing and their lack of accountability. having said that, i know that the vast majority are doing good work and are properly motivated.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs sârbu, our rapporteur, for the excellent work she has done on this report and for her cooperation with all the shadows. this follows work which i carried out in the previous mandate on the role of the common agricultural policy and global food security. i regret that we are debating this report just before midnight. perhaps it will be at a minute to midnight that europe and the world wake up to the realities of how insecure we are when it comes to food production. this report is extremely welcome in our overall debate on this issue and in the context of our debate on reform of the common agricultural policy. i had some concerns, but i think they are reflected in the final text. the idea that one form of production system is better than another – that organic, small, local is better – is not a good argument. we need all production systems to contribute to our food security. we do need to address market volatility and speculation and i do not think we have all the answers yet. the single key problem with agriculture is low incomes for farmers. young farmers will not work for nothing, and we have to address the low income problem if we want security of food supply.
a uachtaráin, cosúil le cainteoirí eile ba mhaith liom comhghairdeas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir bean uí sârbu as an dea-obair san ábhar seo. in four minutes, mrs sârbu covered a multitude of issues. i am not going to go over all the things she mentioned, but i would like to reiterate two points. first, there is a need for a well-funded cap. i hope this parliament will play a key role in ensuring that the cap is not demeaned or diminished in any way. second, we need to ensure that young people are encouraged to go into farming as a livelihood. furthermore, we have a policy of encouraging the growth of energy crops on good agricultural land. in view of the fact that we may be facing a food shortage worldwide, with a population increasing at a rate of 80 million per year, should we reassess that policy? are we robbing peter to pay paul, or perhaps robbing paul and peter and finishing up with nothing? that is the question i would like to ask.
in writing. – as we begin to consider what the final make-up will be of the cap post-2013, the themes of food security, food shortages and sustainability are coming ever more to the fore. this is something that almost everyone in this house, and everyone who will be involved in drawing up the bill, will recognise. the biofuel boom several years ago, coupled with the global food crisis in 2009, has shown us how scarce a resource food is beginning to become. as such, our vision must be narrowed: the sustainability of food and the needs of those who do not have automatic access to food must be put first; farming practices and innovations should be geared towards more food, and the correct crops; and, as we draft the new cap bill, we should finally ensure that the new cap will work towards a carbon-free europe, and one which does not exacerbate the current carbon problem.
mr president, could i raise a wider issue here? at christmas, john bruton, a former leader of ireland and one-time president of the council, said that the part-time nature of the european council is really not fit for purpose, given the extent of the crisis that europe faces. he suggested that the time given to these big issues is little more than the times when leaders are on a flight to brussels. he says that we are facing a financial crisis – a crisis of the welfare state in an ageing society, a crisis of globalisation of nation states and, potentially, even a crisis of the efficacy of european democracy. he says that leaders need to sit together until they have reached a full mutual understanding of all that needs to be done: the whole job and not just bits of it. only something on that scale will give markets durable confidence. i would ask people to discuss this, because perhaps he is right.
mr president, i must say that it is very encouraging to hear so many members from all sides of the house praising the belgian presidency, and rightly so. i feared the opposite. i think one of the reasons the belgian presidency is a success is because they took the realities of the lisbon treaty into account. nowadays there must be a seamless transfer from one presidency to another. it is like a relay race: the more effective the transfer is – and the more low-profile it is – the better, probably. the belgians did that exceptionally well and have given an example to other countries of how to do so in future. i would particularly like to thank them for their work in relation to the budget and the banking authorities and other authorities established. if they are as successful as we hope they will be, then the belgian presidency will actually grow in stature in the years ahead as we look back on these very important decisions.
mr president, on a point of order, i would ask you to carry out a survey of who is being allowed in on catch-the-eye and who is not. it seems to me that there is not a fair distribution from one part-session to another. i would ask you to do this because some of us, who have other duties, cannot sit in the house day in and day out, whereas other people have the opportunity to do so. i think there has to be a fair opportunity for members to intervene in debate. i do apologise for delaying the house, but i would ask that you carry out that survey.
mr president, i had great pleasure in voting for this particular report, because the report confirms that food security is a basic human right. the agricultural sector must meet a growing population’s need for safe and sufficient food despite the obstacles of limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change. according to the united nations food and agricultural organisation, food production must increase by at least 70% to meet the growing demands of a world population which is expected to exceed 9 billion by the year 2050. furthermore, around 900 million people worldwide are chronically hungry due to extreme poverty, while up to 2 billion people lack genuine long-term food security due to varying degrees of poverty. in europe, 16% of citizens still live below the poverty line. basically what i am saying is this: we need to tackle this issue head-on. it is essential that the financing of the new common agricultural policy after 2013 recognises this, and the very least we need is that the budget should be maintained at least at its current level.
in writing. − i support this report on implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid. the eu’s humanitarian policy is the practical expression of its commitment to supporting people in need of assistance when they are at their most vulnerable. the european union is the world’s largest donor of humanitarian aid. its contribution represents more than 40% of all official international humanitarian assistance. in 2009, we provided a total of eur 950 million to approximately 115 million people in more than 70 countries. the european consensus on humanitarian aid, signed on 18 december 2007 underscores the will of the eu to cooperate closely in this field in order to be as effective as possible, to defend and promote the basic humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence and actively to advocate the observance of international humanitarian law. there are many challenges ahead. the recent humanitarian disasters in haiti and pakistan demonstrated once again that the eu’s disaster-response capability needs to be greatly enhanced. disaster risk reduction needs to be fully integrated into policies for development aid and humanitarian aid. we also need clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the un guidelines.
i scríbhinn. − faoi láthair tá 900 milliún duine ar fud an domhain ag fulaingt de bharr ocras na fíorbhochtaineachta, agus suas le 2 bhilliún nach féidir leo brath ar chinnteacht a soláthair bia, toisc go bhfuil siad ag maireachtáil faoi scáil na bochtaineachta. ós rud é go bhfuil méadú de 70%, ar a laghad, ag teastáil chun freastal ar riachtanais an daonra dhomhanda atá ag fás, ní mór an earnáil talmhaíochta a neartú. chuige seo, tacaím leis an tuarascáil thábhachtach seo maidir le cúrsaí talmhaíochta agus an soláthar bia. ní foláir comhbheartas talmhaíochta láidir maoinithe a fhorbairt chun bia ar ardchaighdeán agus ar chostas réasúnta a chur ar fáil agus sinn ag tabhairt aghaidhe ar an éileamh ar bhia san ae agus sa domhan. ní mór na scéimeanna um thorthaí agus bainne i scoileanna agus an clár do dhaoine díothacha a láidriú. ní mór go mbeadh teacht ag muintir an ae ar a ndóthain de bhia folláin, in ainneoin deacrachtaí eacnamaíochta. is cúis imní é nach bhfuil an stoc bia domhanda chomh lán is a bhíodh agus, ag smaoineamh ar an mbaol atá ann ó athrú aeráide agus taismí nádúrtha, tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le córas domhanda a bhunú a bheidh dírithe ar an stoc bia a fhorbairt.
mr president, like others i welcome this debate and this directive and i thank our rapporteur. i am perhaps a little more cautious about it than some members are. i think it would be wrong for the news to go out from this house that, from now on, all is well with cross-border healthcare. we still have much to debate and to put in place to make this work. can i just quote – and i hope i do it accurately – the commissioner’s own words? he said it was ‘clear that all member states have a duty to invest at home, to provide their citizens with the healthcare they need’. i see him nodding in agreement, so i have got the quote correct. it is good that we have that message to take back to member states which are not doing this and to those which have long waiting lists. my own country, ireland, is included here. the truth is that people would prefer to be treated close to home. that is why we have endless protests – and very valid protests – in ireland about the closure of local hospitals and local services. that said, this directive may work if it forces member states and their health providers to look at their services at home and to improve the provision of services to those who need them. they are going to have to pay for them anyway if our citizens take up the rights that this directive will give them. in conclusion, people already have a right to travel for cross-border healthcare under regulation no 883/2004 but they do not know about it. if they did, we would see many more cross-border patients moving to get their services. so let us inform our citizens of what they are entitled to, and let us hope that we do not have to travel across borders but that, if we do, we are able to do so freely and will have the services we need.
a uachtaráin, tá tú an-fhial chun seans a thabhairt do gach duine labhairt. dá bhrí sin, coimeádfaidh mise an margadh agus labhairt ar feadh nóiméid amháin. bhí an díospóireacht seo an-shuimiúil agus bhí sé an-oideachasúil domsa. go háirithe, chuir sé áthas orm go bhfuil an taontas eorpach ag tabhairt tús áite dár n-othair, is cuma an bhfuil siad saibhir nó bocht. agus freisin, ós rud é go mbeidh eolas ar fáil in aon áit amháin i ngach uile tír, cabhróidh sé sin go mór lenár n-othair. freisin cuirfidh an treoir seo brú ar gach uile stát ardchaighdeán seirbhíse a bheith acu mar, mura mbeidh sé sin ann, beidh fonn ar ár saoránaigh taisteal go tír eile ina mbeidh sé seo ar fáil. mar fhocal scoir, ní dúradh mórán faoi e-sláinte ach tá an áis sin an-thábhachtach chomh maith agus cloisfimid níos mó faoin ábhar seo amach anseo.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, nearly 10 million europeans suffer today from dementia, with alzheimer’s the most common form. one of those statistics was my own mother who passed away last year. i therefore strongly welcome this european initiative on dementia. we should be very concerned that only half of cases are estimated to have been diagnosed. we should be very concerned that twice as many women as men suffer from dementia, and we should be very concerned that with an ageing european population the number of sufferers will double in the next 20 years. given that a five-year delay in the onset of alzheimer’s means 50% less prevalence rates, i welcome the focus on prevention and early detection by the commission. i welcome the focus on better research in europe, especially as we know that 85% of research today is without eu coordination. i also welcome the focus on the sharing of best practices and the rights of sufferers and their families. i, and my fellow social democrat meps, focused on the social aspects of dementia in our amendments and we urge the following: we call for a strong focus on the specific needs of women, who account for twice the number of sufferers and a disproportionate number of carers, in the areas of medical and social research, health, employment and social policies. we renew our call on the commission to legislate for mental-health-at-work policies, as part of their health and safety at work responsibility to incorporate persons with mental disorders into the labour market in the best way possible. we recommend an examination of the use of living wills across european borders, which are so badly needed. finally we also highlight the importance, in all awareness and education campaigns, of the ability to recognise the symptoms of dementia. to conclude, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur maria matias, and thank her and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report.
mr president, i just want to make the point that we are talking about alzheimer’s disease and old people, yet i have experience in my constituency with the case of a 48-year-old man who had to be looked after by his elderly widowed father because the young man had alzheimer’s. i will not abuse the opportunity to speak but i thank you for it, and i want to say that i support innovation in relation to ageing. this is mainly an ageing-related issue, but not simply an ageing-related issue.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leat as ucht an deis labhairt mar gheall ar ghalar alzheimer. alzheimer’s is a disease that is the most common cause of dementia, affecting 44 000 people in ireland and nearly ten million people across europe. it is a progressive disease, which means that over time more parts of the brain will become damaged and as this occurs the symptoms become worse. unfortunately, due to the ageing population in europe, more and more people are likely to be affected by this disease in the future. therefore better coordination between eu member states, in terms of research into the causes of dementia and best practice in terms of a care system, is essential. the burden of care is often placed on the shoulders of close family members and in ireland 50 000 people care for people with dementia on a daily basis. in conclusion, i would like to pay special tribute to those carers and to the alzheimer’s society of ireland who provide incredible support to people affected by dementia.
i scríbhinn. – meastar go bhfuil 9.9 milliún duine san eoraip atá ag fulaingt de bharr galar méarmheathlúcháin, cosúil le galar alzheimer. le daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois, measann eurostat go mbeidh dhá oiread an méid daoine le galar méarmheathlúcháin orthu sa bhliain 2050 agus mar a bhí i 1995. thairis sin, ós rud é gur ar bhaill clainne a thiteann ualach an chúraim, meastar go mbíonn tionchar ag an ngalar ar thriúr ball clainne an othair. chuige seo, ní mór a chinntiú go nglacfar beart ar leibhéal an ae chun cabhrú leis na ballstáit cúnamh cuí a thabhairt d’othair agus dá muintir. aontaím go hiomlán go mba chóir tús áite i mbeartas sláinte an ae a thabhairt don néaltrú. ní foláir aitheantas mar is cóir a thabhairt d’eagraíochtaí othar agus cúramóirí agus ní mór go mbeadh na heagraíochtaí céanna bainteach le feachtais eolais agus le hullmhúchán clár taighde. tugann an ae méid suntasach airgid – eur 159 milliún – do 34 clár taighde ar ghalair mhéarmheathlúcháin ach, ós rud é go bhfuil méadú ollmhór ag teacht ar na galair sin, ní mór go leathnófar ar thionscadail taighde faoin 8ú chreatchlár chun taighde ar theiripí iompraíochta, cognaíocha agus teiripí gan drugaí a ghlacadh san áireamh.
in writing. – i welcome this report as an important step forward in the battle against dementia. at present one in 20 people over the age of 65 and one in five over 80 suffer from dementia. it is estimated that more than 8 million europeans aged between 30 and 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, and scientists anticipate that this number could double every 20 years. alzheimer’s disease represents 50% of these cases. nearly ten million europeans suffer today from dementia, with alzheimer’s the most common form. there are 44 000 people in ireland with dementia. there are over 50 000 carers for dementia suffers and an estimated 100 000 people are directly affected by dementia. given that a five-year delay on the onset of alzheimer’s means 50% less prevalence rates, i welcome the focus on prevention and early detection by the european commission. i welcome the focus on better research in europe, especially as we know 85% of research today is without eu coordination. for any european strategy in this area to work, it is crucial that the various countries give priority to drawing up national action plans. a european strategy must also seek to safeguard the existence of services that guarantee maximum possible coverage and equal conditions and treatment for all patients.
commissioner, in the past you have identified cost and lack of information as barriers to the implementation of this hotline in some member states. what measures do you intend to put in place to address these barriers and, furthermore, do you foresee this service being fully implemented across all member states? finally, what options are available to member states that have problems financing this hotline to ensure it becomes operational throughout the european union?
a uachtaráin, tá díomá orm faoin bhfreagra a fuair mé ón gcoimisinéir kallas. tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go mbeadh comhoibriú idir na ballstáit éagsúla. caithfimid chuile rud a dhéanamh chun na báis ar na bóithre agus díobháil thromchúiseach a laghdú. ceann de na rudaí nua-aimseartha atá ag tarlú ar bhóithre eorpacha is ea daoine a bheith ag seoladh téacsanna agus iad ag tiomáint. tá rialacha difriúla idir na ballstáit go léir. caithfimid níos mó comhoibrithe a bheith againn; tá díomá orm nach bhfuil an coimisinéir in ann níos mó geallúintí a thabhairt dúinn faoi sin.
i would like to compliment my colleague, mr higgins, on raising this very important issue. i, too, share his concern at the lack of enthusiasm shown by the commissioner to ensure that best practice is observed throughout the european union. i would ask him why the commission would not at least try and encourage member states to have the same rules and regulations right across the european union, and ensure that they are enforced in the interests of safety and the preservation of life?
madam president, they say that god helps those who help themselves but the european union actually goes further, because the european union helps those who do not help themselves, particularly in relation to haiti where the government – as mr deva and others have pointed out – is corrupt and does not seem to be concerned about its own people. nevertheless, it is important that we continue the good work in cooperation with the un and the ngos etc. i know that one of our most successful irish businessmen, denis o’brien, is playing a leading role in that regard. however, all that will be a drop in the ocean compared to what could be achieved if we had a properly functioning government. so the message has to go out loud and clear to the haitian government that it either needs to ‘catch itself on’ or – hopefully – to be removed by a more competent government, and then we would see real progress.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the proposed law to ban what is called the public promotion of gay relations in lithuania is another excuse to crush the rights of gay, lesbian, transgender and bisexual people in that state. how cruelly ironic that a country which threw off the shackles of stalinist dictatorship only 20 years ago should now revert to aping one of the many crimes of that system: the suppression of the right of people to live freely and in peace according to their own sexual identity. i salute the courage of the hundreds of gay people and their supporters who braved the hate campaign against them to march in the baltic pride parade in lithuania’s capital vilnius in may of last year. it is revolting to see right-wing politicians scapegoating gay people in lithuania. the political establishment in that country has dismally failed its people, particularly the youth. just as in ireland, market capitalism and financial speculation have devastated the economies of the baltic states, including lithuania where unemployment has rocketed to 18% and youth unemployment to a staggering 35%. in these circumstances, using minorities, including gay people, as scapegoats is a standard, cynical way to divert attention from the failures of the establishment. just as in the hate campaign against gays in uganda, the homophobic campaign in lithuania tries to insinuate that gay people pose a threat to children, implying sexual abuse of children. this is a poisonous slander, designed to confuse and mislead. it is a slander that would have parents look in the wrong direction to protect their children. coming from ireland, i can confirm tragically that threats to children come traditionally from within institutions where they are supposed to be safe, within certain families and within certain areas of the catholic church. it is reprehensible that young people in lithuania coping with their emerging sexuality – which is a difficult enough time – must now do so in a climate of intolerance and fear. so, we should stand in solidarity with the right of all people in lithuania, in russia, throughout the european union and elsewhere to live in peace and in accordance with their own identities.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the permanent financial stability mechanism in practice is nothing more than another tool to cushion major european banks from the consequences of their reckless speculation on the financial markets. it is a mechanism to make working class people throughout europe pay for the crisis of a broken financial system and a crisis-ridden european capitalism. mr barroso and mr van rompuy, tell me this morning – because you have not done so yet – about the morality of transferring tens of billions of euro of private bad debts by speculators and bankers gambled wildly on the irish property market and placing those debts on the shoulders of the irish people who carry no responsibility whatsoever for them. far from being a bail-out, your imf-eu intervention in ireland is a mechanism to make the irish taxpayers vassals to the european banks. you are destroying our services and the living standards of our people. you claim to be democrats, but you enslave the working people of europe to the markets, the financial markets, which lead you around by the nose. your financial stability mechanism is a vicious weapon dictated by the markets, masquerading as something benign. we, on the left in ireland, will insist that it goes to a referendum of the irish people before it is passed.
mr president, unlike many speakers i would like to compliment mr van rompuy and mr barroso for at least being proactive in the present crisis and introducing measures which hopefully will be successful in the future. whether they will or not, we cannot be certain at this point in time. if they are, they will be seen as heroes. if not, they will probably be seen as villains, but give them credit where credit is due. hopefully, the supervisory architecture will ensure that many of the flaws which led to the present situation will not happen in the future. where my own country is concerned, unfortunately we have had to avail ourselves of a bail-out and that was largely due to the recklessness of our banks and poor governance. in a few months we will have a new government, and hopefully that will bring political stability, but i would make an appeal to mr van rompuy and mr barroso to try and reduce the current interest rate in the bail-out because it is too high and it could cripple the country.
in writing. – the media law adopted by hungary’s parliament is clearly at odds with article 11 of the eu charter of fundamental rights that guarantees freedom of expression and information. the watchdog established under this hungarian law has been given the job of ensuring that journalistic reporting is ‘balanced’. this could seriously inhibit press freedom and leave the way clear for arbitrary rulings. moreover, this same watchdog is made up of elected members of the sole party in government. such a composition does nothing to ensure either the objectivity of the watchdog’s decisions or its independence as an authority from hungary’s government. i urge the european commission to proceed immediately with a legal examination of this law and its implementation and, if necessary, to take action in relation to hungary to ensure that this law is amended and brought into line with the fundamental values on which the european union is based.
madam president, mr messerschmidt is right. this was dumped on us by the court of justice but i welcome it, and i want to compliment ms grossetête for producing an excellent report, because with this directive patients will benefit from complete and transparent information when they resort to healthcare abroad. it is very clear what is in this. patients with rare diseases will be able to benefit from cross-border expertise and diagnosis so long as the treatment is unavailable in their member states. the directive is intended to offer patients a choice which is based on their needs, not their means, and which is informed and not made under duress, so i think it is very positive indeed. finally it allows cooperation between member states. i welcome the fact that it outlaws completely something which could be abused and that is the whole area of medical tourism. so to me it is another step in the right direction; it is another step in strengthening cooperation between the member states and bringing about greater cohesion within the union. i think that it is a good day for the patients of europe.
madam president, i welcome this healthcare directive, but i am cautious because the devil will be in the detail. it is very important for our citizens to realise that this directive will not come into force for 30 months. but, in the meantime, citizens can cross borders to get healthcare in another member state and can be reimbursed for the care that they receive. so let there be no doubt that, even as of today, there are citizens who are travelling across borders for healthcare. that is very important. for those who want details on this complex directive, i have spent some time writing a question-and-answer page, which is available on my website. i urge those citizens who may be watching on the internet or elsewhere to take a look and, if i have not asked the right questions, to prompt me because we need to spread the word about this very positive move towards cross-border healthcare for all.
madam president, i too am very pleased with the agreement we reached today which i think will ensure that patients will have access to cross-border healthcare in a proportionate way and an equitable way. as several of the speakers have already said, the current proposal is here of course because a citizen from your own country, from the south of england, challenged the system and because the court of justice vindicated her rights. i think what we are trying to do today and what we, along with the council, have done is to ensure that citizens’ rights are vindicated and we are linking the needs and rights of citizens to legislation, and surely this is what this parliament should be about. there are still a few matters that need to be ironed out. i think the mutual recognition of prescriptions between member states is very important because this is not just about healthcare, it is about after-care as well, but we have a period of time in which that detail can be finalised. i suppose the final comment i would make is that, in the current financial crisis, a lot of citizens are asking: is europe working? is it delivering for its citizens? that is an open question, but i think today we can say with some certainty that europe is working.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin a bhaineann leis an socrú idir an taontas eorpach agus camarún agus idir an taontas eorpach agus poblacht an chongó maidir le dlí na foraoise agus trádáil in adhmad a thagann ó na tíortha úd. tá sé fíorthábhachtach go gcaomhnófar na foraoiseacha trópaiceacha chun cothromaíocht a choimeád inár n-éiceachórais. tá sé fíorthábhachtach chomh maith go dtugtar cosaint do phobail dhúchasacha na foraoise, daoine atá faoi dhianbhrú ó dhúshaothrú na timpeallachta ag comhlachtaí móra idirnáisiúnta agus ó ghearradh síos na bhforaoiseacha ar a mbraitheann siad dá slí bheatha ar mhaithe le proifid na gcomhlachtaí úd. is dá bharr san gur chuireas leasú chun cinn a deireann gur cheart go mbeadh na foraoiseacha agus na tionscail foraoiseachta in úinéireacht phoiblí agus faoi stiúrú daonlathach an lucht oibre sna tionscail úd chomh maith leis na daoine dúchasacha a mhaireann sna foraoiseacha.
madam president, many members of this parliament may not be aware of a very nasty war of words raging on this issue of adoption, which is most unhelpful and unwelcome. if we are truly to put the rights of the child at the centre of this debate, which we did in this house and which this resolution also does, then we will do the right thing for all children, no matter which member state they were born in. it is important not to pick on any particular member state but to recognise that all countries have children who are abandoned or not cared for within the nuclear family as we know it and who need other forms of caring. yes, there are many families willing to give loving homes to children. while perhaps we need to look at the bureaucracy, let us not diminish the scrutiny. can i finally say that to some extent those who adopt and are successful are put through much more rigour than those who simply give birth.
a uachtaráin, vótálas ar son na tuarascála seo agus tá áthas orm gur glacadh í beagnach d’aon ghuth. caithfidh mé a rá gur fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht go léir sa pharlaimint ach níor éirigh liom seans a fháil labhairt, dá bhrí sin tá mé ag úsáid an nóiméid seo chun cúpla pointe a rá. an pointe is tábhachtaí ná go bhfuil géarghá le taighde chun cúis an ghalair seo a fháil amach. cén pháirt a ghlacann an bia a ithimid sa ghalar? cén pháirt a ghlacann strus an tsaoil sa ghalar? cén pháirt a ghlacann ár ngéinte sa ghalar? cén fáth go bhfuil dhá uair níos mó ban ag fáil an ghalair ná fir? sin ceisteanna an-tábhachtacha. ní féidir na ceisteanna sin a fhreagairt gan taighde, agus molaim don choimisiún ionad iomráiteach leighis amháin a roghnú chun an taighde sin a dhéanamh agus chun na ceisteanna sin a fhreagairt.
madam president, what i like about this report is that it is dealing in a multifaceted fashion with a startling challenge and that is the whole area of alzheimer’s. you are talking about prevention, diagnosis, treatment and cure. the reality is that the big dreads in terms of diseases are cancer and alzheimer’s. we have done a huge amount in coming to terms with, first of all diagnosing the causes of cancer, secondly the prevention of cancer and thirdly dealing with cures. we have come along way down the road. even though alzheimer’s was discovered in 1906, there has been a special phenomenon within the whole area of dementia: we still do not know the cause and we still do not have any cure. however, this report is very welcome. at the same time, there are big challenges: what are we going to do in terms of diagnosing the causes so that we can bring about prevention and secondly introduce some kind of definitive cure?
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil sé fíor go bhfuil éiginnteacht ar leith ag baint, faoi láthair, le ceisteanna maidir le teacht ar chúram, leigheas agus aisíocaíochtaí i réimse an chúraim sláinte trasteorann. cé go bhfuil sé ríthábhachtach nach méadaítear ar an mbrú a bhíonn ar chórais sláinte náisiúnta nó nach gcuirtear le héagothroime sna córais sin, ní mór go mbeadh an ceart agus an tsaoirse ag othair cúram sláinte trasteorann a lorg agus ní foláir iad a chur ar an eolas maidir leis na cearta céanna. ní mór fáil réidh leis an éiginnteacht dhlíthiúil a bhíonn ann agus cáilitheacht le haghaidh cúram sláinte trasteorann agus le haghaidh aisíocaíochtaí á meas, agus ní foláir go mbeadh eolas cruinn, soiléir ar fáil d’othair maidir le cathain agus conas a bhíonn cóir leighis i mballstáit eile clúdaithe. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le pointí teagmhála a chur ar fáil sna ballstáit uile chun othair a chur ar an eolas maidir leis na córacha leighis atá ar fáil, conas cur isteach ar an gcúram sláinte trasteorann agus conas gearán nó achomharc a thaisceadh.
in writing. − i support this proposal on cross-border healthcare; healthcare should never be treated as a commercial market service. this initiative aims to ensure that there are no unnecessary obstacles for patients seeking healthcare in a member state other than their home country. it seeks to implement what the european court of justice has laid down in many rulings. moreover, it sets out to provide clarity about a patient’s right to be reimbursed by their home state. while ensuring high-quality, safe and efficient cross-border healthcare, it is important to ensure a proper balance between the right of eu patients to seek treatment abroad and the capacity of national health systems and national healthcare priorities. this directive will clarify the reimbursement of costs for treatments that patients have received in another member state and will ensure the good functioning and the financial balance of national health systems. it is important that member states can decide to establish a well-defined system of prior authorisation for reimbursement of costs of hospital or specialised care.
i scríbhinn. − tugaim mo chuid tacaíochta do chearta othar cóir leighis riachtanach a lorg i dtír eorpach nach í tír chónaithe an othair í. tá an ceart ag gach saoránach éireannach, agus ag gach saoránach eorpach, go deimhin, taisteal go tír eile san aontas eorpach le cóir leighis a fháil. ní bheinn i bhfabhar na “turasóireachta leighis”, ach bheinn ar son córais a thabharfadh cúnamh do dhaoine atá ar scor agus cónaí orthu thar lear, agus dóibh siúd a bhfuil tearcghalar nó galar neamhchoitianta orthu.
i scríbhinn. − níl aon cheo níos tábhachtaí ná sláinte leanaí agus cearta agus leas leanaí a chosaint. ní mór, freisin, go mbeadh an ceart ag leanaí saol i dteaghlach a bheith acu agus ní foláir a chinntiú nach mbíonn ar leanaí tréimhsí fada a chaitheamh ag maireachtáil i ndílleachtlanna.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán leis an tionscadal seo maidir le galar alzheimer agus galair néaltraithe eile. is é galar alzheimer príomhchúis an néaltraithe agus tá breis is 44 000 duine in éirinn agus thart ar 10 milliún duine ar fud na heorpa atá ag fulaingt dá bharr. is galar forchéimnitheach é an galar alzheimer, rud a chiallaíonn go ndéantar níos mó agus níos mó damáiste don inchinn le himeacht ama. ag an am céanna, éiríonn airíonna an ghalair níos géire. faraor, ós rud é go bhfuil daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois, tá gach seans ann go bhfuil méadú chun teacht ar líon na ndaoine a bhfuil an galar seo orthu. ní mór an comhordú idir na ballstáit ó thaobh taighde ar bhunchúiseanna galar néaltraithe agus ó thaobh dea-chleachtais chúraim de a fheabhsú. is minic gur ar bhaill chlainne a thiteann ualach an chúraim. tá 50 000 duine in éirinn atá ag tabhairt aire go laethúil do dhaoine a bhfuil néaltrú orthu. ba mhaith liom moladh ar leith a thabhairt do na daoine sin agus do chumann alzheimer na héireann, a thugann cúnamh den chéadscoth dóibh siúd atá ag fulaingt de bharr an ghalair alzheimer.
i scríbhinn. − ba thubaiste amach is amach do phobal háítí a bhí sa chrith talún agus in eipidéim an chalair a lean é. iarraim ar an bpobal idirnáisiúnta, an taontas eorpach san áireamh, na gealltanais ar fad a rinneadh ag an gcomhdháil um ghealltanais idirnáisiúnta i nua eabhrac anuraidh a chomhlíonadh agus an t-airgead sin a thabhairt, gan mhoill, do phobal háítí agus do na heagraíochtaí neamhrialtasacha atá i gceist.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which calls on the lithuanian parliament to reject draft legislation that seeks to punish the ‘public promotion of homosexual relations’ with fines. this ep resolution follows a series of worrying events such as the adoption of the law on the protection of minors against the detrimental effects of public information, the attempted prohibition by local authorities on holding equality and gay pride marches, and the use by leading politicians and parliamentarians of inflammatory or threatening language and hate speech, a recent eu fundamental rights agency report concludes that ‘the amendments could potentially criminalise almost any public expression or portrayal of, or information about, homosexuality’. these draft amendments would certainly seem to contravene lithuania’s obligations under its own constitution, the european charter of fundamental rights, the european convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the international covenant on civil and political rights. i note the firm stand taken on several occasions by president of the republic of lithuania dalia grybauskaitė, denouncing draft homophobic legislation as being harmful for lithuanian citizens and the image of lithuania, and encourage the president to veto the amendments to the code of administrative offences should they be approved.
mr president, i very much appreciate this debate and fully support the resolution, which i also sponsor. i believe there is a sleeping giant that is awakening because of the gratuitous and vicious abuse of christians. if this viciousness and abuse applied to muslims or the jewish community i would be equally concerned. europe is a mosaic: its unity and diversity are our motto. yet in cyprus the turkish government and its representatives think it appropriate to require christians to apply for permission to pray and turn them out of church when they decide to do this collectively. has the turkish representative to the european union been called in? if not, why not? i would like to pay tribute to those muslims who supported their christian neighbours who were under attack. so let us not make this a motion against anybody. it is for christians and for those who are being attacked. i do not support and cannot accept abuse of people, individuals or communities because of their religious beliefs. this debate is about christians; too many expect christians to accept any old comments. they think it an anachronism. it is time we started to have mutual respect. i respect people in this house who have no religious belief or who have a different religious belief to me. it is time people in this house started to show respect for those who have christian beliefs; it is in diversity that we have unity.
mr president, i think that one of the great developments in the modern world is the transition from totalitarianism to democracy in the eastern european countries. hungary, whose landmark presidency we discussed this morning, is an example of that and our own president mr buzek is a shining example of that development. however, there are other countries where the transition has not been as smooth. belarus unfortunately is an example and lady ashton in particular summarised what needs to be done regarding dealing with that situation. at best you could say that they have embraced democracy by taking two steps forward and one step backwards. in the recent election they probably took three steps backwards and no steps forward, but i think she is correct in saying we need to work with civil society, the ngos and our international partners to bring pressure to bear on president lukashenko to end his repression and dictatorship.
mr president, let me concentrate on paragraph 90 of this report, which states that competition in agricultural production is a precondition for lower prices for consumers in eu countries. a bit of it is true but i am afraid it misses the point completely. we are having a debate among ourselves, and in particular groups in this parliament, about what is happening to the agricultural markets and why there is not fair transmission of the final price that we, as consumers, pay for food to those who produce the food. it is a very serious problem at a time when we are reforming agricultural policy, threatening to cut the budget for agriculture and not looking at the imperfections in this marketplace. so the report should say much more about that. the commission is urged to look at competition in the agro-industrial sector: yes, please, and look at it too in the retail sector but then stop looking and do something about it! we are great at talking in this house but we are not so good at action. i have one other point in relation to competition. i make some complaints to the commission on behalf of constituents. the small person gets no hearing against the state, and i would like the commission to take this back: that there are some complaints which i, as a member, have not ... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, tá athrú suntasach ag teacht ar limistéar an artaigh de thoradh an athraithe aeráide, agus leac oighre agus sneachta ag leá. tá bealaí loinge nua á n-oscailt, tá teacht ar mheánna iascaireachta agus tá fás agus feabhas ag teacht ar na deiseanna atá ann taiscéalaíocht inmharthana ola agus gáis a dhéanamh. the eu is playing an active role in arctic issues. for example, the eu is a major contributor to research and development funding via the seventh framework programme for research and development. the european parliament is actively involved in ongoing dialogue with elected representatives from the arctic through the standing committee of parliamentarians of the arctic region, and as chairman of the sineea delegation i represent the european parliament on this important body. in september, parliament hosted the biannual meeting of the standing committee for the first time. the conference was a great success, which enabled the european parliament to deepen and to strengthen its relationship with the arctic nations.
madam president, i think it is good that the european union is developing policies and strategies for broad regions such as the baltic, the danube and my own region, the atlantic, and today discussing the high north. but in dealing with the high north it is important that we are seen to be diplomatic, not didactic; cooperative, not coercive; and explorative, not exploitive. because of the importance of the indigenous people, they must be given primacy of consideration, and there are companies and countries out there which are casting their greedy eyes on the north now because of its resources in terms of fossil fuels, fish and – probably – maritime transport possibilities. the european union, because of its treaties and because of its raison d’être, is not in a position to strike the balance. one other point i would make is this: i am a member of the delegation for relations with canada, and we could also establish a collegial approach with canada and like-minded countries to ensure fair play for the high north, and particularly the indigenous people.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht anseo inné agus bhí sé an-suimiúil agus an-tábhachtach. d’fhreastail mé, freisin, ar an searmanas lasta coinnle taobh amuigh den pharlaimint inné, agus gabhaim buíochas lenár nuachtarán, jerzy buzek, as an gceannaireacht a thug sé sa mórshiúl sin. the persecution of christians in recent times is reminiscent of the days of the roman empire when christians were seen to be fair game for murder and attack. this has to be brought to an end. it is important that the european union play its part here, and i think we are doing so, to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of practice for religious groups not only within the union but also in applicant countries. that is a very important point around the world. tá áthas orm gur glacadh leis an rún stairiúil seo inniu, agus go háirithe gur glacadh leis d’aon ghuth.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacú leis an rún seo chomh maith. i would say that one of the primary functions of the european union is to guarantee fair competition for all, and particularly for smes and, of course, consumers. there has long been suspicion that people are exploiting the market and, at this moment, in my country people are alarmed at the uniform and systematic rise, for instance, in petrol and diesel prices at all pumps throughout the country. likewise, farmers have long been suspicious that there is a cartel operating, particularly when it comes to uniform and speedy reduction of cattle prices at the slightest whim. and of course recently we saw that the european court ruled against telecommunications companies regarding roaming charges in europe. so we have to be constantly vigilant and be prepared to take firm and immediate action whenever there is unfair competition.
mr president, we are talking here about a double tragedy: firstly the execution of an innocent man and, secondly, done by someone who was supposed to be minding him, his bodyguard. i can empathise and sympathise with the family in particular, because only a week ago we had a similar experience in difference circumstances, where a beautiful 27-year-old girl from ireland on her honeymoon in mauritius was killed in her own bedroom when she walked in on staff who were robbing her room. they strangled her, threw her into the bath and tried to pretend it was suicide. circumstances are different but the result is the same: an innocent person dead. also, a few weeks ago i was part of the eu-us delegation to america and there we met the foreign minister of pakistan. he struck me as being a very reasonable, sensible, fair-minded person and he emphasised that religion is about tolerance and we should try to get that message through to the extremists and the fundamentalists.
mr president, once again we have an appalling situation coming out of iran. prior to christmas we discussed the situation of sakineh ashtiani, who was condemned to death by stoning for alleged adultery, a sentence subsequently commuted to death by hanging for alleged murder. today we have the unfortunate situation of nasrin soutoudeh, who has been condemned to 11 years in jail for doing her job. she has had her assets frozen and has been denied access to her own lawyer. her husband was arrested during the week for – and i quote – ‘spreading lies and disrupting public opinion’. figure that one out! i think all we can do is use our influence to the best of our ability to try and bring an end to this evil madness, particularly the maltreatment and disrespect of women. those two examples have been cases in point.
mr president, this is an opportunity for the sudanese people, of both north and south, to concentrate on growing their economies and using the wealth that their oil resources can bring to feed and educate their people, but we must also help, and do so without delay. currently 80% of southerners have no access to toilet facilities. one in ten children die before their first birthday. in the poorest parts of the south, less than one percent of children finish primary school. every year sudan exports billions of dollars of oil. if north and south can arrive at a diplomatic and peaceful solution – and they can – then both parties can use their rich natural resources to haul themselves out of their dreadful poverty – the poverty that plagues their land – with some help from their friends. of course the future of both governments will depend on issues such as border demarcations, the sharing of oil revenues and the status of abyei, the disputed oil-rich border region between north and south. i urge the high representative and the commission to encourage rapid diplomatic negotiations between north and south to resolve the remaining issues in as short a timeframe as possible and, most importantly, to keep this item high on the european union’s agenda. i look forward to welcoming parliamentarians from both sides, representing their states in their own right, to a future meeting of the joint parliamentary assembly of the acp countries with this parliament before too long. it will be an indication that they have arrived at statehood. i think it is something we should encourage sooner rather than later.
mr president, at last, amongst all the gloom and doom, we have a good news story. a good news story which i am very proud that the european union played a very important part in – compliments to lady ashton and her colleagues and also to the members of parliament who supervised the referendum. of course, the real work is now beginning in making the transition to freedom and nationhood for southern sudan. that is very difficult and the history of the world has shown it has often led to civil war. however, the european union can play a crucial role in ensuring that transition takes place, so that the people of southern sudan can have the basic human rights which mr mitchell referred to, such as education and even toilet facilities. i think that, in particular, the border and the division of oil resources are going to be crucial issues. a famous irish hero, michael collins, once said that border land is trouble and always will be. the european union, seen as being independent and objective, can play a crucial role in bringing about the transition which is so badly needed. thank you very much. we wish the sudanese people the very best of luck.
madam president, a few weeks ago we were going bananas about bees. tonight we are buzzing like bees about bananas, and particularly this proposed agreement. as you can see, it has got a mixed reaction – not surprisingly. there are benefits, particularly for producers who are going to gain by it, but there are also concerns – concerns about the impact on the environment and particularly concerns about the impact on producers in the european union. i think it is very important to take that on board, because the primary responsibility of any body, country or union is to take care of its own producers first. only in that way can you actually extend the hand of friendship to others. the same applies to the proposed mercosur deal. there are many in the european union who feel that it will discriminate against and decimate the beef industry in the european union, and particularly in my own country. so we have to be very careful. yes, extend the hand of friendship, but not at the cost of our own producers.
madam president, tuberculosis, or tb as it was known in my country, was rampant in ireland a little over half a century ago, killing many people, young and old. as the country grew affluent it died out, and vaccination stopped for 36 years. however, as the author has pointed out, tb has returned in recent years. only last year in my own constituency a child in a school and a baby in a crèche contracted the disease. worldwide, it is a bigger problem with 2 billion affected by the bacteria and one person dying every 20 seconds. we therefore have a big task if we are to reach the target of eliminating the disease by 2050. research is the key, and in this area the european union deserves great credit because, while we are behind the us and japan in terms of research in general, we are the leaders in this field, with 60% of research taking place in the eu, and with danish authorities and scientists in particular having developed the vaccine.
madam president, as an irish mep i am asking the eu to deal equitably with an impossible financial situation in ireland. yes, we have to take responsibility for our many failures, but we did not act alone. casino-type investments from many countries flooded into irish banks. they have collapsed like a house of cards and irish taxpayers are shouldering an unbearable burden. we pay a punitive interest rate of 5.8%, and our ability to repay, signed off in a four-year austerity plan by the eu, is predicated on growth, but that growth cannot happen. why? unemployment is increasing even as emigration is rocketing. businesses are collapsing, and for the fourth consecutive year our gnp has decreased. and, as the ecb funnels eur 132 billion in the front door of irish banks, eur 110 billion has fled out the back door of those same banks in 2010; eur 40 billion in december 2010. the situation is fast becoming untenable and if, as president barroso said, europe is part of the solution, serious action is needed now.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith a rá gurb í an tsaoirse ceann de bhunaidhmeanna an chomhphobail eorpaigh: saoirse taistil, saoirse trádála agus saoirse oibre. níl saoirse oibre againn mar níl aitheantas frithpháirteach do cháilíochtaí againn. inniu chuala mé faoi lia a bhí ag obair san iodáil agus thóg sé naoi mí air cead a fháil chun obair in éirinn. níl ciall dá laghad leis sin. ba chóir dúinn féachaint ar an gcóras upmc atá sna stáit aontaithe; is sampla úsáideach dúinn é. go háirithe má tá sé d’aidhm againn ríomhsheirbhísí leighis a bheith againn, caithfimid an t-aitheantas seo do cháilíochtaí a chur ar bun. murach sin, ní féidir linn dul chun cinn a dhéanamh.
rapporteur. − madam president, i understand i have some injury time for not being able to get in at the beginning of the debate. my apologies – i got held up in traffic. first of all, a british colleague has criticised the situation with regard to the importance of democracy and human rights. if democracy and human rights were functioning in our member states, then we would not have children going to school on bread and jam, and that is the reality of it. whether in britain or in any other member state, i think it is clearly a matter for those member states to ensure that does not happen. let us be very clear about what this is all about: not just democracy and human rights. twenty-two thousand children die each day, every day, a short plane journey from this building. twenty-two thousand. the good news is that it used to be 34 000. we and others have brought it down to 22 000 because of democracy and human rights and the sort of financial instruments which the union has approved. let us not pit those people against children in our own member states going to school on bread and jam, which i deplore also. let our member state governments get their act together in dealing with those children. this issue is about implementation or delegated acts. is it implementation, or is it a delegated act – in which case it is legislation? i propose to stick completely to parliament’s first reading and thus to say that we will reinstate – have reinstated – all amendments. these have not been accepted by the council. the issue at stake is one of principle and is crucial to the future nature of interinstitutional relations in the area of external action. the amendments proposed by parliament do not concern the substance of the dci or the other instruments, but the role of parliament in the practical implementation of the law. the objective is to protect the democratic prerogatives of the european parliament, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. as co-legislator, we must be able to control, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption and the execution of strategic decisions on the spending of development aid: how much, where and how. in technical terms, the amendments ensure that certain draft decisions taken by the commission are recognised as delegated acts as defined in article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this would give the two branches of the legislative authority the possibility to object to draft decisions which are not in conformity with the requirements of the law. this veto would ensure that parliament’s suggestions are taken into account when the commission programmes eu aid. let me be clear that we are not talking about micro-management, as a colleague has already said, or individual programmes and projects. the amendments will ensure that legislators keep control over strategic decisions concerning funding allocations and sectoral priorities. all proposed amendments were already included in parliament’s first reading position, which was adopted by plenary with a large majority on 21 october 2010. however, the council has flatly rejected all amendments on democratic scrutiny and delegated acts, without proposing any alternative solution which would satisfy parliament’s demands. it is unfortunate that during the many months – almost one year – that have passed since the first discussion of the dossier in committee, interinstitutional negotiations have not made any progress. i can assure this house that we have really tried very hard. negotiations with the council and the commission – which should incidentally facilitate these negotiations – started in february 2010. we held three dialogues and several meetings at technical level, both on the contentious issues of delegated acts. on these issues, there has been no rapprochement. only towards the end of last year did the commission negotiators come up with a compromise proposal. parliament immediately reacted with a counterproposal, but this was not reflected in the council’s position. we understand that it was not formally transmitted to the member states in the council. despite the hard line of the council, which is shared by the commission – something i regret because it is not its constitutional position to do so – parliament insists on its position. legally, our arguments are sound. the strategy papers are multiannual programmes, decided under the dci for example, which fulfil the criteria for the application of the delegated act procedure. they supplement the basic regulation and are of general application. the criteria mentioned in article 290 are compulsory if they are fulfilled. the council and parliament must have a veto right. this is not a matter of political bargaining or any special arrangements, as that would be contrary to the treaty. it is a legal obligation. politically, we have the full support of our conference of presidents, which decided on two different occasions – most recently earlier this month – that in all dossiers negotiators should insist on the application of the delegated acts procedure for decisions concerning objectives, the choice of priorities, expected results and financial allocations in broad terms. we also have a common line among the committees: the rapporteurs in the committee on international trade and the committee on foreign affairs – respectively responsible for instruments for cooperation with industrialised countries and instruments for human rights and democracy – have adopted the very same approach as i have. all amendments concerning delegated acts from first reading should be reinstated. our position is plain and simple and fully in line with the mandate of the conference of presidents. we will not be divided or have our role as a legislature ignored. i am convinced that the introduction of the new procedure would also be in the interests of the intended beneficiaries of our financial instruments. parliament could play its role as watchdog much more effectively and ensure that the money is spent on the core objectives of the union’s development cooperation defined in the treaty: the reduction – and ultimately the eradication – of poverty. twenty-two thousand children do not need to die each day, every day. we demand to have our say on how this issue is addressed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
rapporteur. − madam president, i agree with mr deva that we gave up certain of our rights. i was the rapporteur on the development and cooperation instrument. it took us two and a half years to agree that instrument because we simply would not give up on certain core rights of parliament, but we did have to compromise towards the end. in the end, there was an interinstitutional agreement between parliament, the commission and the council which said that we, through our committee on development for example, would have scrutiny rights over the dci, and we set up groups to carry out that agreement. these instruments are in the spirit of that agreement, which should be continued.
in writing. – i support today’s weee report, but we must ensure that we do not place overly-burdensome regulations on already struggling smes and retailers. we must ensure that the burden to take back weee rests with the manufactures, not the retailers. i welcome the proposal of stronger provisions which seek to prevent illegal shipments of this waste and to close loopholes in the law. currently, by declaring such equipment as ‘used but functional eee’ and not weee, it can be illegally shipped to, and dumped in, third world countries. of course, greater enforcement on behalf of authorities is also crucial, while electrical items should be recycled in accordance with the law in order to prevent the uncontrolled release of cfcs. criminals often profit from illegal shipments, as traffickers involved in the scam often trick authorities by not labelling goods as electronics, by pretending they are for re-use, or by hiding them in the middle of a container for shipment. unchecked shipments usually end up in ghana, nigeria, india or pakistan. we need to work together on the second reading to ensure that this dangerous practice is stopped, and also to ensure that valuable european metals remain in europe.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús mo chara agus mo chomhghleacaí, karl-heinz a mholadh as ucht na tuairisce seo. gach rud a dhéanann sé, déanann sé é go beacht agus go praiticiúil agus is amhlaidh don tuairisc seo. as has been said, we are living in an electronic age with newer and newer gadgets coming onto the market almost daily, and the shelf life of many such items of electrical equipment and gadgets is very short, necessitating an upgrading or disposal. the proposals here are certainly timely in that regard. also, the point made about the internal market is very important. we like speaking about it, but it is far from complete. dá bhrí sin, is dóigh liom gur dul chun cinn fiúntach é an tuairisc seo maidir leis na fadhbanna sin a réiteach agus fáiltím roimpi agus bhí áthas orm vótáil ina fabhar.
mr president, i am happy to support the ambitious report from parliament, which sends a strong message to governments all over the eu. the report upholds the ‘polluter pays’ principle and it does so in a proportionate way. i am pleased with the alde amendment which exempts micro-enterprises – that is businesses employing less than 10 people and with a turnover of less than two million – from the requirement to take back all small volume waste. this ensures that small shops that have difficulty with space are not burdened with unreasonable requirements. finally, to those who complain about the cost of this proposal – and there were some – i would say that we do not have the right to continue to use the dwindling resources of this planet. we have the obligation to actively promote re-use and recycling and make every possible effort to mitigate the loss of our ever scarcer raw materials.
mr president, you very cleverly observed today that we had a member reading a speech from an ipad for the first time. then we had – hopefully for the first and last time – a member allegedly voting while absent. then we ourselves voted on the supervisory authority chairs. by voting against, we were actually voting in favour. riddle me that. we did not, of course, as has been pointed out, know the names of the candidates and we did not have a female candidate, although, in fairness to commissioner barnier, he explained that adequately. it is perhaps not surprising that we were discussing bananas today because, taking all those things into account, many people consider that we have gone a bit bananas. in that spirit i will be retiring for my lunch, of which bananas will make up a very important part of the menu. thank you for your indulgence, mr president.
i scríbhinn. − de réir an tionscnaimh um vacsaín eitinne aithnítear thart ar 9 milliún cás nua de ghalar na heitinne gach bliain, agus faigheann 2 milliún duine bás ón eitinn sa bhliain: sin bás amháin gach 18 soicind. níl ach ceithre bliana le dul roimh spriocdháta sprioc na mílaoise um ghalair a dhíbirt agus fós is í an eitinn ceann de príomhchúiseanna an bháis ar fud an domhain, agus í is contúirtí i gcás daoine a bhfuil veid/seif orthu chomh maith. ní mór go gcomhallfadh an ae a dhualgas i leith sprioc mílaoise na náisiún aontaithe um an eitinn a chomhrac agus a dhíbirt roimh 2015 a bhaint amach. vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin thábhachtaigh seo agus aontaím go mba chóir an comhrac i gcoinne na heitinne a bheith san áireamh le straitéis 2020 na heorpa. mar atá ráite sa rún, ní mór don choimisiún agus do na ballstáit a seacht ndícheall a dhéanamh chun a chinntiú go sroicheann cuid cheart den airgead atá ar fáil don chúram sláinte daoine bochta i dtíortha atá i mbéal forbartha agus ní foláir gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun a chinntiú go bhfeabhsaítear agus go dtugtar tacaíocht do sheirbhísí cúraim sláinte i gceantair bhochta.
in writing. − we abstained on the final vote on the tuberculosis vaccine initiative (rc-b7-0075/2011). we fully support the objective of the vaccine initiative but could not support the citation which refers back to another parliament vote which supports, inter alia, abortion and runs counter to a previous explanation of vote which we put on the record of parliament.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá, ar dtús, go bhfuil mé buíoch don ghrúpa as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom labhairt sa díospóireacht seo agus molaim an rapóirtéir agus an coimisinéir barnier, go háirithe, as a ndea-obair thábhachtach. since i came into the european parliament i have been hearing all the time about the need for more europe. i certainly embrace that concept. the recent economic crisis has brought that idea home to all of us, especially in my own country. we have an election going on in ireland at the moment, and it is very interesting that there is more talk about the eu than there is about local issues; this is obviously part of the result of the imf-eu bail-out. nevertheless, ireland’s leader has spent two days in europe, which is unprecedented – one with president barroso and today with chancellor merkel. this all shows an engagement with europe that we might not have had before. on this point, the directive has the potential to help us all across europe to get out of the economic crisis and create prosperity. unfortunately, many countries, including my own, have not transposed this directive into law. hopefully that will change with the new government. particularly where smes are concerned, there is great potential. it has not been availed of because they are not aware of it, because of difficulties with language, etc. the first thing is certainly to transpose the directive into law. secondly, the eu needs to impose barriers and penalties on countries that do not abide by the deadlines. it has been far too easy up to now. if we are to have progress, this has to be done. if each sme had one more employee, unemployment would cease in europe. this is a great opportunity, as mr harbour and others have said. we cannot afford to wait.
mr president, this is a good afternoon for the european parliament and the european union in terms of the topics we are discussing, which has a real impact on the real economy. we have discussed the services directive, the unitary patent and now new instruments to support smes. it has been said that smes are absolutely vital, and that if each sme created one extra job, then unemployment would cease in europe. for many of them, creating one extra job would not be too difficult, particularly if they get credit, but the evidence is that they are not able to get credit. every weekend i meet business people who cannot get credit, particularly in my country. i met a person last weekend who wanted 4 000 euro for an sme as cashflow and could not get it. so the situation in my country is chronic. despite the fact that the ecb has capitalised the banks, it is not being passed on. this certainly must be looked at. it is not good enough. we have heard the mantra of banks being too big to fail. we should change that to a mantra of smes being too important to fail. if we give them the credit and the support, each of them could certainly create one extra job, and one extra job would get us out of the economic recession we are in. it is not too much to ask, and this evening, by discussing the new instruments to support smes, we can certainly go a long way in doing that.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission statement on the revision of eu instruments to support sme finance. it is very clear that the cost, and indeed the availability, of credit remains the single biggest challenge facing the sme sector in europe, and indeed in my own country of ireland. many viable businesses continue to have difficulties in accessing affordable credit from the banks. that is unacceptable. i can only speak for my own country, but bearing in mind the support that the sme sector has received from the taxpayer in ireland, that sector is the engine of growth in the economy. it is the private sector that creates the jobs. all that we in the commission, parliament and the council do is to create an economic atmosphere conducive to investment, and we must continue to do that. i am delighted that the commissioner has referred to flexibility and said that access to capital should not be bureaucratic, but he is merely following through on the statement by the president of the commission in his state of the union address. we must monitor what is happening closely, because the president said that we would have an annual saving of eur 38 billion from european companies. we must ensure that we help those small companies, because they will help to create the jobs and reduce unemployment.
mr president, during the last election in ireland, embryo stem cell research was a hugely controversial topic. this time, medicine is scarcely being mentioned as the elections take place. obviously, the economy has taken centre stage, but also medical science has moved on considerably. we are very fortunate with the quality of medical research we have in various institutions throughout the european union, and also with the quality of medical practitioners. cord blood stem cells are one example of where progress has been made. it has been said that this research has the potential to help deal with 70 to 80 diseases. that is something that we should encourage, and therefore it is important that this type of research and facility be made available – obviously within ethical constraints. as you pointed out, commissioner, much of this will depend on the member states themselves, in terms both of application, in particular, and also of follow-up in due course.
mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner for his contribution to this debate. however, because of the concerns that have been raised, maybe one solution could be that the national registry of blood banks could be used as the registrar, the resource, for maintaining the cord stem cells for future use. this would overcome some of the problems and difficulties some of my colleagues have already mentioned with regard to the cost of storage. as well as that, we already have a system in place within the existing national blood banks that can regulate and control the quality of that supply. that could be a good way of overcoming some of the difficulties. i, like many colleagues, believe that the use of stem cells has a huge potential for future disease treatments. however, we must also be cautious about giving false hope, because too often we have heard, not just with stem cells but also with biotechnology in other areas, of people being given false hope. we need core scientific values and core scientific research to ensure that the results that are being proclaimed can actually be delivered.
mr president, today is not just st valentine’s day, but also european epilepsy day, as st valentine was reputed to have epilepsy. the aim of european epilepsy day is to explode the myths and remove the stigmas surrounding a condition that six million people suffer from within the european union. in my own country, ireland, a small country, 37 000 live with epilepsy every day. this campaign focuses on generating more openness and more knowledge about epilepsy and addressing care issues for people with epilepsy. at present there is a huge shortage of consultant neurologists in my country – the worst in the entire european union – where you have to wait for up to two years to see a consultant. that is appalling. there is a shocking divergence in standards of epilepsy care throughout the european union. what we need is research and data: we need an eu-wide data bank where we can actually share best practice and make things better for somebody who is trying to lead a normal life but cannot drive a car, cannot ride a motorcycle and cannot get on with their ordinary life, and yet is perfectly intelligent. some done, but a lot more to do.
mr president, indeed i did not request speaking time, but thank you for allowing me to offer my sympathies to the families of people who lost their lives in a tragic air accident in my home town of cork in ireland last thursday, 10 february. if it were not for the rapid response of the cork airport fire service in putting out the fire on the plane, six other lives would have been lost as well. indeed, two people were able to walk away from the crash, despite the fact that the plane overturned twice on the runway. it is important for us here in parliament, as we fly regularly ourselves, to appreciate the fact that the fire services in all the airports across the union need to be maintained at the highest possible level of readiness to respond to this type of tragedy.
cuirim mile failte roimh an beart seo, mar ta se an-thabachtach go bhfuil cothromaiocht ann idir cosaint an chomhsaoil agus cosaint jabanna agus iomaiocht fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide san ae.
madam president, this initiative has been in gestation for almost three years and, for once, i found myself on the side of the council rather than of parliament. of course we need to protect the rights of passengers, and particularly those with disabilities, but the initial proposal – as philip bradbourn has said – if adopted, would have serious consequences for small transport providers. indeed it would put many of them out of business. for that reason, the conciliation process was vital and the compromise reached strikes a fair balance between passengers’ rights, on the one hand, and those of service providers on the other. i fully agree with mr bradbourn that you cannot equate sea passenger rights, air passenger rights, rail passenger rights and bus passenger rights all in the same package. for that reason, talking about a consolidated package simply is not something that is feasible and realisable. i would like to pay a compliment to the chair of the committee on transport and tourism, brian simpson, who did an excellent job, to the rapporteur, mr cancian, and to our own coordinator, mathieu grosch. at the end of the day, we have a fair and balanced package which is to the mutual benefit of all concerned.
madam president, this provision is a little like the curate’s egg. it is good in patches. i particularly welcome the dispositions for those with a disabilities or reduced mobility, but have the same concerns already voiced by other speakers about the 250 kilometre threshold. one size does not fit all. in the european union of 27 countries of different sizes, there should have been some flexibility within countries so that all could be included in the provisions. i live myself over 300 kilometres from our capital. there is a buoyant small business enterprise in coach travel between rural areas in my constituency and the capital, dublin. this now will be put under severe pressure because of the provisions of this proposal and also, particularly, increased insurance costs which may drive them out of business. if they go out of business, jobs are lost and the facility for passengers is also lost. we will have to monitor this as we go forward.
madam president, i voted in favour of this regulation, even though i feel that it certainly does not go far enough. however, it is a start and sometimes in this parliament and in the eu we take only baby steps. that is what we have done today. it is unfortunate that some member states are outside this regulation and, indeed, that it applies only to journeys of distances greater than 250 kilometres. i certainly would have preferred the alde line, where passenger rights would have applied to journeys of a much shorter duration. i am, however, pleased to see that some of the basic rights in the regulation apply to passengers travelling over shorter distances. those rights in particular apply to persons with a disability, or indeed persons with reduced mobility. some of these rights include non-discriminatory access to transport and disability-related training for staff on coaches and buses. unfortunately, member states have a derogation period of up to ten years and, while small businesses do need adequate time to comply, i would ask and encourage member states to try to ensure compliance with this regulation as soon as possible.
madam president, i strongly support passenger rights and, in particular, increased rights for disabled people. i am not particularly happy with the compromise reached. i would have preferred, in contrast to my colleague, a threshold of 200 kilometres, as this would have enabled ireland to exempt rural areas of my constituency. i am thinking of parts of north and west donegal, mayo, and indeed galway. most rural areas are outside the 250 kilometre limit. the level of rights being sought in terms of compensation is disproportionate to the type of service operating in rural areas. i also want to refer to the cost, and that is principally an insurance cost, that could cause some operators to leave the market. in many cases there is no alternative public transport service available. of course, we have to accept the decision that has been taken today and, hopefully, the derogation period could give the opportunity to those who are outside the 250 kilometre limit to adapt. so, while i agree in principle, i had to abstain for the foregoing reasons.
a uachtaráin, bhí brón orm nach raibh mé in ann freastal ar an díospóireacht seo ach bhí cruinnithe eile agam ag an am. mar sin, a bhuíochas duit as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá anois. in the 2020 strategy we have put much emphasis particularly on renewable energies, and that is only right. but equally important in meeting our targets will be energy efficiency, particularly in relation to motor vehicles – private and commercial. commercial vehicles are on the road every day and they travel huge distances. through a directive like this we can help to comply with the 2020 strategy in relation to fuel efficiency because it will compel designers to produce more fuel-efficient engines, and while the cost may be big in the short term, the savings in terms of miles per gallon travelled, and also in terms of the environment, are huge.
madam president, this proposal is certainly not perfect, and indeed may have to be revisited as a result of the ecj judgement in a few weeks. nevertheless, i think it is a step in the right direction, and for that reason i supported it. i have attended a number of seminars here at the european parliament in relation to innovation. general electric have done some surveys right across the european union which show that most people believe that progress out of recession can only be achieved through innovation. innovation means research, development and new products. new products have to be patented, and the easier it is to do that, the better. we have to try and aim for a system right across the european union that is as easy and as cost-effective as it is in the usa. we are a long way from that yet, but at the same time we are at least trying to move in that direction. therefore, i supported today’s proposals.
i scríbhinn. − mar chathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa don chaidreamh leis an eilvéis, an íoslainn agus an iorua agus chun an chomhchoiste pharlaimintigh den limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch, fearaim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo. is mise a d’ullmhaigh tuairim an choiste um iascach ar an tuarascáil.
i scríbhinn. − mar chathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa don chaidreamh leis an eilvéis, an íoslainn agus an iorua agus chun an chomhchoiste pharlaimintigh den limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch, fearaim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór go mbeadh teacht ag daoine atá faoi mhíchumas ar chóras iompair agus go gcosnófaí cearta daoine atá faoi mhíchumas luaineachta ó thaobh cúnamh a fháil ag stadanna agus críochfoirt de. cé go n-aontaím go bhfuil an ceart ag paisinéirí eolas agus cúnamh níos fearr a fháil ó chomhlachtaí agus ag críochfoirt ar fud an ae, tá sé tábhachtach nach gcuirtear ualach rómhór ar na comhlachtaí beaga, teaghlaigh nó deonacha atá i mbun gnó faoin tuath, rud a chuirfeadh brú orthu gearradh siar ar na seirbhísí a chuireann siad ar fáil. go minic, is seirbhísí riachtanacha do phobail áitiúla agus tuaithe iad na seirbhísí bus a chuireann na comhlachtaí teaghlaigh nó deonacha ar fáil. praghsanna níos airde agus srian ar an méid bealaí a bhíonn ar fáil a bheadh mar thoradh ar na costais bhreise a mholtar sa tuarascáil agus seans go gcuirfí iallach ar roinnt comhlachtaí dúnadh. chuirfeadh ró-rialú ualach iontach mór ar na comhlachtaí sin, roinnt dóibh atá faoi bhrú cheana féin, agus seirbhís srianta do mhuintir na tuaithe a bheadh mar thoradh leis. is fearr córas iompair a éiríonn go maith leis ar an leibhéal áitiúil ná seirbhís a chuirtear deireadh leis de bharr ró-rialaithe.
mr president, i would like to thank mr weber for taking my question, which i would hope that perhaps president barroso might also answer, because it is primarily directed at him. i support the intention behind this treaty change. like others i am concerned about the mechanism. but the simplified procedure provides that all national parliaments, all 27 national parliaments, must acquiesce at least in the adoption of this treaty change. national parliaments are given six months to decide what they may do. we are talking about adopting a decision in march, a council decision that was made in december. how can that possibly by the case? surely they have to wait until june to make that decision?
mr president, a new stability mechanism is proposed. in the election campaign in ireland, those parties likely to form the new government are promising a major renegotiation of the existing eu-imf austerity plan, lessening its severity. but this is mere speculation and it is unjust and anti-democratic that the irish people are asked to vote for a fog of conjecture. i wanted to ask mr barroso, as president of the commission, not to intervene in the irish election campaign, but to vindicate the democratic right of the irish people to factual information and to the truth. commissioner rehn said yesterday that renegotiation of the eu-imf deal appeared to be possible, but i have four specific questions. firstly, is renegotiation possible immediately on a new government taking office in ireland and before the new mechanism of 2013? secondly, would this mean substantial reductions in the brutal levels of interest charged? thirdly, would the financial speculators be forced to take their own losses rather than crucifying the irish people? fourthly, does he understand that only a renegotiation that reverses cuts and provides substantial public investment in jobs will resolve our crisis in ireland, while more cuts and austerity will wreck our society?
madam president, as the commissioner said the winds of change are blowing across north africa; somewhat reminiscent of what happened in eastern europe twenty years ago. if the outcome is the same – the establishment of democratic regimes – then i think we should be very pleased. the downside of course is that in the short term at least we have a refugee and asylum problem, particularly in italy. as italy is in the european union it is a problem for italy, it is a problem for europe; the solution has to be italian, the solution has to be european. we cannot close the door to refugees, but at the same time the door cannot be opened to all the refugees and asylum seekers in the world. so the solution really is, i think, in the multi-point plan suggested by my colleague, mr busuttil, particularly to ensure that repatriation takes place when it is proper and safe to do so and of course also to send back asylum seekers who are not deserving of that status within the european union. we have to act in solidarity with italy and we can do so.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for her good work; she certainly made my life easier. i also want to thank the commission for starting this discussion, which is certainly very timely. some people speak of the pensions time bomb and, given some of the figures that i have seen estimating the gap between what we currently put aside for both public and private pension provision and the resources we will need to ensure adequate pension provision for the next forty years, that gap is huge. so, in that context, the phrase ‘pensions time bomb’ is certainly accurate. well, we all know what we need to do with a time bomb: we need to defuse it. i think this is the start of that process. but the core question is: who is responsible? i think in the report we are clear that member states are themselves responsible for making sure that there is adequate pension provision for their citizens. but, we also state that the economies of member states are interdependent and therefore a coordination of pension policies using the omc is certainly useful. however, we do not believe it is possible for the eu to set adequate pension levels or, indeed, to harmonise retirement ages. nonetheless, we do consider that member states should define adequacy as the condition required for older people to live a decent life. i am pleased we have highlighted the gender issue and asked member states to deal with the issue of men and women who take time off to care and that we have paid attention to the issue of mobility and the role of the eu 2020 strategy. finally, i support the inclusion of pension liabilities within the sgp. we know that a fiscal black hole is opening up in the area of pension provision and we just cannot ignore it.
i want to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the concept is very good. it is consumer-focused, it is about reputation and the reliability of goods produced within the eu. but i cannot find any information from eurostat, for example, as to how much this symbol is worth to european business, or what percentage of europeans actually know what the ce does. secondly, i believe that we should be exploiting it more. in april 2010 at the hannover fair there was a major campaign to promote the ce mark, but we are not exploiting it enough. it needs a far more concerted effort, as the potential is absolutely huge.
i would like to make three points. first of all with regard to the china helpdesk. whilst a wonderful idea, smes find it very difficult to get access for the sectors that they are specifically involved in. it seems to be more suited to larger-scale enterprises. secondly, the one-stop shop idea, which is already in use internally within the eu, could be put to better use in the bric countries – that is brazil, russia, india and china – to increase the amount of exports and outward investment that european companies can make. thirdly and finally, the model that has worked best so far has been the eu-japan relationship. that has worked best for trade and investment in both areas. perhaps that should be the standard to be followed.
i suppose my question is a slightly difficult one, in that it relates to countries that are implementing severe austerity measures like my own, ireland. this is the bottom line: smes need access to credit and they are not getting that for a number of reasons, perhaps because banks are looking for more collateral than they can provide, or sometimes smes just do not want to risk borrowing in the current climate when there is no growth. my question is, in that context, could the commission endorse other measures such as loan-guarantee schemes or indeed an extension of the eu microfinance facility?
madam president, on a point of order, i just want to make an observation and i know many members would agree with me. it is nothing to do with you personally, but concerns the way question time is organised. from night to night, no member knows how many questions are going to be taken, how many supplementaries are going to be taken, how long the answers will take, and whether or not we will have a question time to the commission or council at all. that is unsatisfactory. i met baroness ludford. she was an hour late for a dinner because she expected her question to be taken. i calculated that my question would be taken and i refused an invitation to dinner. at the very least, members should be told in advance how many questions are going to be taken, and then they can plan accordingly. i know i will get a written answer, but if i and other members want a written answer we could send an email from the comfort of our own homes and we would get a reply to our email. that is all i want to say. i think it should be taken on board. madam president, it is nothing to do with you: you handle it very well, i mean no disrespect whatsoever to you.
mr president, i suppose one could say that those of us who are still here at this hour of the night are probably powered by some form of renewable energy, perhaps solar power or maybe even divine power in the form of a halo above our heads. either way, the discussion has been very varied, and not surprisingly because this is always a contentious issue. but i think the commissioner got the balance right, probably better than most of us, in terms of where we are going and what needs to be done in the future. i think a few points need to be made more precise. whether countries are in the developing world or the developed world, if they have resources of fossil fuel – coal – or nuclear energy, they are going to utilise them. the question is: do we finance them or do we not? obviously in europe, in terms of cancún, kyoto, etc. we want to push the renewable agenda, and that is absolutely correct. but i think in doing that, mr martin is probably right in one sense that we need to speak with a louder voice and push the world bank into promoting and financing more renewable energy projects than they are perhaps doing right now.
mr president, i am happy to support this resolution, but of course one of the main problems faced by smes is access to credit. this is a major impediment to job creation and indeed growth. in countries undergoing severe austerity measures – like my own country, ireland – this issue is particularly severe and i believe it needs to be dealt with immediately. we need to act at eu level to ensure that banks are willing and able to finance smes. recapitalisation of banks is important, but recapitalised banks with the sme sector on its knees is a recipe for disaster. my real fear is that we are going to end up with a highly capitalised banking system, while the real economy is on floor. we all talk about growth, and that is the only way that many of the peripheral economies can climb out of the abyss that they are already in. yes, it is a balancing act, but we have a situation where the health of our financial institutions is improving day by day but smes still remain in intensive care.
mr president, i welcome this report. hopefully it will put the issue of pensions centre stage in eu matters. i think the core issue is: how are member states going to finance adequate pensions for their citizens? what systems will they put in place using some combination of the three pillars to ensure that their pension systems are sustainable? there is a yawning gap between current pension provision and what will be needed to provide pensions at current levels for the next 40 years. indeed, an estimate from a major insurance company states that the gap between what we are currently providing, both public and private, and what will be needed to ensure that pension provision remains at the same level in 40 years’ time for the eu 27, is eur 1.9 trillion per year. that is a staggering figure and, while measures such as, perhaps, longer working lives or other initiatives will help to bridge that gap, there is still an enormous fiscal black hole. i hope that this debate and the subsequent white paper from the commission will ensure that we begin to deal with this matter in a realistic way.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo, mar is dóigh liom go bhfuil sé thar a bheith in am dúinn an cheist seo a phlé sa pharlaimint. gan dabht ar bith is ‘buama réidh le pléascadh’ é fadhb na bpinsean faoi láthair, agus beidh sé níos measa amach anseo. ach caithfear deireadh a chur le cleachtaí áirithe; mar shampla, i mo thír féin, beidh polaiteoirí ag éirí as anois agus beidh siad ag fáil níos mó ar pinsean ná dá leanfadh siad ar aghaidh ag obair. níl ciall dá laghad leis sin. freisin, tá daoine ar pinsean agus tá siad ag fáil níos mó ar pinsean ná mar a bhí siad ag fáil fiche bliain ó shin nuair a bhí páistí óga acu agus morgáiste mór. caithfear na ceisteanna seo a phlé; agus go háirithe caithfear cúlchiste ollmhór a chur ar bun chun pinsin a sholáthar sa todhchaí.
mr president, i look forward to the accession of croatia to the european union, particularly as an irish mep. croatia and ireland are very similar in terms of population – 4.5 million – and will have the exact same number of meps – 12. also, at a time when many eurosceptics are talking about the implosion and the disintegration of the european union, it is rather paradoxical that countries are queuing up to join the european union – croatia being a case in point. they are not joining willy-nilly: they are joining as a result of a very rigorous accession process and croatia has made much progress in that regard. granted, there are problems, particularly regarding the judiciary, but i am sure in due course these matters will be dealt with. of course, no country is without its faults. as our lord himself said: ‘let he who is without sin cast the first stone’. i look forward to croatia joining the european union and think it will be a very good member.
i scríbhinn. − is údar mór imní é caighdeán agus sábháilteacht na dtáirgí leighis atá á ndíol le muintir na héireann. fearaim fáilte roimh an togra seo, a bhfuil sé mar aidhm aige srian a chur ar tháirgí leighis falsaithe. is beart tábhachtach agus riachtanach é seo.
i scríbhinn. − tá daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois agus ní fada anois gurb é an t-aoisghrúpa “55 bliana d’aois nó níos sine” a bheidh ar an aoisghrúpa is mó san ae. cé go bhfuil ceathrar in aois fostaíochta ann do gach duine atá os cionn 65 faoi láthair, is leath an choibhnis sin a bheidh ann faoin mbliain 2050. vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tráthúla seo. cé gur cúram do na ballstáit aonair é cúrsaí pinsin a shocrú, ní mór don ae agus do na ballstáit comhoibriú le chéile chun córas cinnte, inbhuanaithe agus inmharthana ó thaobh airgid de a fhorbairt. tá soghluaisteacht ar leith ag baint le lucht oibre an lae inniu; dá bhrí sin tá sé fíorthábhachtach go bhféadfar pinsin a aistriú ó bhallstát amháin go ballstát eile. ní foláir na córais pinsin a thabhairt suas chun dáta ionas go mbeidh siad solúbtha, trédhearcach agus so-aimsithe. ní mór eolas a chur ar fáil maidir leis na roghanna atá ann agus maidir leis na gnéithe éagsúla a bhaineann le cineálacha pinsin éagsúla. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le béim níos treise a chur ar an oideachas airgeadais agus maidir le feasacht ar shábháil i gcomhair pinsin a spreagadh.
i scríbhinn. − tá 23 milliún gnóthas beag agus meánmhéide san ae faoi láthair. is gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide iad 99% de ghnóthais an ae ar fad, agus is iad atá freagrach as 100 milliún post san aontas. is ríléir gurb í saincheist an chostais agus infhaighteacht creidmheasa an fhadhb is mó atá ag earnáil na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide i láthair na huaire. tá deacrachtaí fós ag roinnt mhaith gnóthas inmharthana teacht ar chreidmheas ar ráta réasúnta ó na bainc. ag smaoineamh ar an méid tacaíochta atá faighte ag earnáil na mbanc ó cháiníocóirí na héireann, tá sé seo dochreidte agus do-ghlactha. cuireann costais eile, cosúil le cíosanna, billí fóntais agus táillí áitiúla, isteach go mór freisin ar chumas iomaíochta na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide sna laethanta deacra atá inniu ann.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, can i thank both the council and commission for a very clear statement of their intent on this very crucial issue of rising food prices. those of us in the committee on agriculture and rural development who are in the chamber today are more accustomed to debating agricultural matters at midnight. i am delighted that when agriculture suddenly becomes food, we debate this very important issue in the middle of the day when people can hear. i think we should remember this. (applause) let me say very clearly that the disconnect between agriculture and food is part of the problem that we are debating here today. the realities of agriculture and the low farm incomes in both europe and the developing world are central to this debate and, lest we also forget, one of the crucial problems – and the commission identified it in its position paper – is that rising commodity prices and rising food prices do not translate into higher farm incomes. the real problem is that the costs of producing food are rising faster, and this is a treadmill on which farmers cannot continue. the challenge for us as policy-makers is how to increase food production in a sustainable way, how to produce more from less, how to manage our stocks and how to deal with the issue of stock dislocation that the commissioner has identified. global stocks are no longer the key figure; we need to know where the stocks are and to realise that they will not come out of china or india. what we need to do – and i think this has started to happen since my report during the last parliamentary term – is to put agriculture and food centre stage. let me finish by saying this: we need to be cautious as to how we reform our agriculture policy. we must maintain and increase food production within the european union as part of our contribution to global food security. and yes, let me endorse your point about agriculture in the developing world: it has been neglected for far too long. it is now high time that our policies assisted that agriculture.
madam president, in developed countries the average household spends 10% to 20% of its income on food, whereas in developing countries the figure is generally as high as 80%. this underlines the dreadful consequences for those suffering countries. we must respond and we must continue responding until they stand on their own feet. in december 2008 this parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of my report on the eur 1 billion food facility to provide financial aid to developing countries in light of soaring food prices at that time. the purpose of this facility was to respond to those soaring prices, the causes of which were mainly, though not exclusively, droughts in grain-producing countries and rising oil prices. the situation remains extremely volatile, affecting producers and consumers in both the eu and developing countries. we must learn how to cooperate with other countries such as thailand. in the region, thailand is a major producer of food, yet when some of its neighbours like burma and vietnam were in poverty and running out of food, we did not accept thailand’s offer to cooperate with us and act as our agent in the region. we have to learn how to do that. we must ensure a quick transition to stability in north africa. we must ensure that aid is delivered to regions hit by unforeseen natural disasters such as haiti and pakistan, and in this regard we must continue to mobilise the reserve for emergency aid, allowing the eu to respond promptly to specific aid needs arising from such events.
i scríbhinn. – is cúis mhór imní sa lá atá inniu ann í slándáil an tsoláthair bhia. tá 79 milliún duine san ae ag maireachtáil faoi thairseach na bochtaineachta agus le linn gheimhreadh na bliana seo caite tugadh cúnamh beatha do 16 mhilliún duine san ae. ós rud é go bhfuil leibhéal ard nua sroichte den seachtú mí as a chéile ag an gcostas beatha agus ós rud é go bhfuil an luaineacht i bpraghsanna ag cruthú dianfhadhbanna sa slabhra bia, beidh deacrachtaí ag tuilleadh daoine teacht ar bhia folláin ar chostas réasúnta. tá cláir de chuid an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt), cosúil leis an gclár um dhaoine díothacha, ríthábhachtach ó thaobh bia a chur ar fáil. ní mór tacaíocht a thabhairt do chláir den chineál seo agus bearta prasa, fadtéarmacha a chur i gcrích chun slándáil an tsoláthair bhia a áirithiú san ae agus sa domhan uile. faoi láthair cuirtear 30% den bhia a tháirgtear sa domhan amú. is cur amú do-ghlactha, mímhorálta é seo agus ní foláir srian a chur leis. tá tionscal láidir talmhaíochta, cbt láidir agus slabhra soláthair bhia, ina bhfuil sáriarrachtaí á ndéanamh chun srian a chur ar an diomailt bia, riachtanach chun dul i ngleic le dúshlán an tsoláthair bhia.
mr president, i would like to compliment you on the way you handled catch-the-eye today. it was the first time i have heard the names being called out in advance, when the number of speakers was limited, so that other members who would not be able to speak could go about their business. i did not ask to be included in catch-the-eye in this debate, but i did note what you did and i hope other presidents will emulate it.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo chomhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis an uachtaránacht as ucht a bheith mar a bhfuil sí anocht, agus fáiltím roimh an méid atá ráite ag an aire. ceann de na fadhbanna is mó ó thaobh na miontionsclaíochta de, is ea an ró-oifigiúlachas – is é sin red tape mar a deirimid i mbéarla. do gheall an tuachtarán barroso in 2004 go ndéanfadh sé rud an-tábhachtach ar fad chun déileáil leis an deacracht seo, ach níor tharla sé fós. nuair a chloisim an méid atá ráite ag an uachtarán-in-oifig, ón ungáir, ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil mé thar a bheith dóchasach. tá sé an-tábhachtach ar fad go ndéanaimid chuile rud chun déileáil leis an bhfadhb seo, mar cruthaíonn sé an-deacracht do dhaoine a bhíonn ag dul isteach sa chineál seo tionsclaíochta.
mr president, i have no difficulty with the european union investing in projects outside the european union, particularly in aspects like combating climate change. however, as an irish mep, i find it ironic that we are discussing here this morning how the eu can guarantee against losses on the loans and guarantees for projects outside the european union, while the same eu is trying to make a profit on loans to ireland under the bailout system – a profit of almost 3%, which equates to eur 5 billion. this is not sustainable, it is not fair and i do not think it is legal. it is also unbelievably difficult to understand how we are being charged 5.8%, when loans to other countries within the european union were set at 3.2%. i just want to say that under the new government we will be demanding a renegotiation… (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, vótálas ar son an chomhaontaithe seo; leanas é ón tús agus bhí áthas orm gur glacadh leis inniu. ag seimineár sa bhruiséil an tseachtain seo caite, dúirt eacnamaí creidiúnach gurb é seo ceann de na comhaontuithe saorthrádála is fearr a rinne an taontas eorpach riamh. ag an am gcéanna, dúirt sé nach fiú biorán 90% de na comhaontuithe seo. bíodh sin mar atá, fáiltím roimh an seans a thugann sé do tháirgí talmhaíochta, go háirithe uisce beatha, muiceoil agus táirgí déiríochta. tá súil agam go nglacfar leis an deis. is iontach an rud é, freisin, go bhfuil clásal cosanta ann. mar mura n-athraíonn rudaí mar ba chóir, is féidir linn athbhreithniú a dhéanamh. dá bhrí sin, tá an-áthas orm gur glacadh leis.
mr president, unfortunately this dispute is over a century old. it re-emerged in june 2008 and has escalated since the beginning of this month. many people have different views as to why it should have escalated at this particular time. there are those who think that hawkish thai generals are using it as an excuse to overthrow the government and to cancel the elections proposed for later this year. be that as it may, this dispute – particularly looked at from a distance – should be solvable. it is not a major dispute, particularly if the united nations uses its mandate and its influence to bring about three things: firstly, an agreement to end cluster munitions; secondly, a permanent ceasefire; and thirdly, if necessary, deployment troops to oversee that ceasefire. if these happen, then this dispute can be brought to an end.
deputising for the author. − mr president, for those of us who live in the developed world, the chasm between us and the sub-saharan area both in terms of thinking and practice is very difficult to comprehend. the case of david kato is an example of that. he was a man who was regarded as the father of the ugandan human rights movement. as a founder member of smug, sexual minorities uganda, he was condemned by a magazine called rolling stone, and won his case against them. the editor said that the persecution of homosexuals and their execution should continue. sure enough, david kato was murdered, on 26 january.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for this report. the two major problems facing the european union are high unemployment and severe debt burdens. yesterday, in dublin, agreement was reached on the formation of a new government – a government which is committed to bringing ireland out of one of the darkest hours in our history. ireland faces an unprecedented national economic emergency, a fact of which colleagues in this house are all too well aware. indeed we need the understanding and support of our colleagues in order to recover from the difficulties. the incoming government has many challenges to face, including awaiting the results of the second banking stress test due at the end of the month so that we will finally know the extent of the problem. these stress tests will be a damning indictment of the ineffective regulation of europe’s banking sector – and ireland’s also – but i say europe, and i underline that point. there are lessons to be learned. on the employment front, our focus will be to get people back to work. so, on the issues in this report, three taxation measures are proposed. the financial transaction tax has potential, but we do need – and i welcome the commissioner’s comments about this – an impact assessment before we make a final judgement. can i say that taxation should not be about punishment; it is about the building of resources in a fair and equitable manner. regarding eurobonds, again there are possibilities here for major infrastructure projects. those concerned about moral hazard should say that if we had good economic governance, that fear should abate. lastly, the carbon tax: i have some concerns about this, but at least we are debating these very important issues in this house and tomorrow we will take a vote on them.
mr president, politicians are supposed to rule the world, and if they do not the void is filled by others. that is, in part, what happened with the economic crisis, not least in my own country. thankfully, we are now recovering lost ground and efforts have been made in parliament to try and rein in the financial speculators – those economic parasites who have wreaked havoc on the markets and on people’s lives. the financial transaction tax is a good idea as a basis, but i believe that going ahead with it without global application would, in the words of nigel farage, be kamikaze economics. i was pleased to co-sign amendment 3, calling for a feasibility study. it is right and prudent that we should wait for that feasibility study to see if it is economically sensible for us to go ahead unilaterally, without the rest of the world. once that feasibility study is available, we can then make a decision.
in writing. – i support this report, which calls for the eu to promote the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) at global level, and failing that, as a first step, the eu should implement an ftt at european level. the spectacular rise in the volume of financial transactions in the global economy within the last decade, which in 2007 reached a level 73.5 times higher than nominal world gdp, illustrates the growing disconnection between financial transactions and the needs of the real economy. the financial sector is under-taxed. remarkably, no vat is levied on most financial services. measures must be implemented to raise more from this sector and contribute to shifting the burden of taxation away from working people. the main costs of the crisis have so far been borne by taxpayers. financial institutions and stakeholders, which have enjoyed years of excessive returns on equities and excessive annual bonus payouts, must contribute their fair share to meeting the costs. it is estimated that a low-rate ftt could yield nearly eur 200 billion per year at eu level and usd 650 billion at global level, constituting a substantial contribution by the financial sector to the cost of the crisis and to public finance sustainability.
a uachtaráin, tá mé sásta glacadh leis an tuarascáil seo agus beidh mé gan dabht ag vótáil ar a son nuair a thiocfaidh sí os comhair na parlaiminte. bunaíodh an coimisiún ginearálta iascaigh don mheánmhuir i 1949 agus clúdaíonn sé an mhuir dhubh chomh maith. mr president, i would like, firstly, to totally agree with the comments of one of the previous speakers, mr fox, in commending the commissioner for doing away with and banning once and for all the scandalous practice of discards. well done, commissioner. it was a very sensible measure and we are extremely grateful to you. secondly, in relation to the issue of the mediterranean and the black sea, both are literally aquaculture and environmental paradises. what you have done here – or rather, what we have done – is to bring together all the important elements. for example: conservation, management, exploitation, monitoring, marketing and enforcement measures, because enforcement is important from the point of view of aquaculture and aquacultural products. what this does, in fact, is pull together all the various strands. up till now, what we have had are various resolutions and various rules and regulations, but what this has done is bring them together in one very sensible, comprehensive package. the hallmarks of the package are two things: clarity and simplification, so that everybody understands exactly what is involved. hopefully, what we are doing here, by way of adopting this report and putting it in place, is providing a simplified, workable, effective framework for the mediterranean and for the black sea.
a uachtaráin, tacaímse go láidir leis an méid atá á dhéanamh ar leibhéal an ae chun straitéis chomhtháthaithe a bhunú do réigiún an atlantaigh. tá teorainn leis an atlantach ag na cúig bhallstát seo: an bhreatain, éire, an fhrainc, an spáinn agus an phortaingéil. ar a mhullach sin, ó thaobh an gheilleagair agus an chomhshaoil de, tá sé fíorthábhachtach go mbeadh réigiúin chósta na hiorua, na híoslainne agus oileáin fharó san áireamh i straitéis ar bith. ní mór go ndíreodh straitéis an atlantaigh ar fhorbairt eacnamaíochta oileáin agus réigiúin chósta an atlantaigh a spreagadh. the atlantic region is one of the world’s richest and most underdeveloped areas in terms of wind and wave energy. it is estimated that by 2050, up to 50% of europe’s electricity supply could be provided by renewable energy generated off the atlantic coast. tourism and leisure facilities are also a major economic asset for the regions along the atlantic arc. there remains enormous potential for growth in this area, including the development of strategically located marinas along the coast in each country. the maritime transport and port sector and the seafood sector, including aquaculture, would also benefit from deeper cooperation between the member states along the atlantic. of course an atlantic strategy must also be consistent with the common fisheries policy, and the european atlantic area contains the most productive and prolific fishing grounds in eu waters. it also contains the major spawning grounds for mackerel, blue whiting, horse mackerel and hake. member states’ cooperation in terms of marine safety, security and surveillance has improved in recent years. given the broad expanse of the arc, an integrated strategy will ensure better and more effective operations organised between member states. finally, this will result in better emergency-at-sea responses, including search and rescue, that know no geographical or political boundaries, and in improved surveillance at sea to combat organised crime and drug trafficking.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar seo a bhfuil spéis mhór agam ann, go háirithe ós rud é go dtagaim ó thír aigéanach – éire. we have seen the danube, the baltic and the mediterranean strategies. in those terms, the atlantic strategy is in its infancy, but has vast potential, as speakers have pointed out, not just in its maritime aspects, but also in its territorial aspects, as my colleague, mr millán mon, mentioned. there are two points which i would like to concentrate on: one is tourism potential and the other is energy. 7% of irish tourism is maritime-based. we should set a target of doubling that right along the atlantic coast, in the five countries of the atlantic arc, by 2020. particularly amongst young people, there has been a growth in activities based on-shore and off-shore, such as walking, diving, fishing, whale-watching and surfing. these can all be developed through a unified approach with all the areas cooperating, particularly in marketing, and also in licensing, etc., thereby reducing red tape. where energy is concerned, by 2050 we will need far more renewable energy than we have now. we have seen the volatility of the price of oil in recent weeks. that is not going to change. the atlantic ocean has wonderful potential for wind, wave and tidal power. that may be cost-prohibitive at the moment, but in due course, with developing technologies, that will change.
in writing. – i very much welcome this initiative. we need to ensure that we have a clearly defined strategy so as to enable this region to prosper. problems facing the region and areas we need to address include environmental threats (water pollution, floods, climate change), untapped shipping potential and lack of road and rail transport connections, insufficient energy connections, uneven socio-economic development, uncoordinated education, research and innovation systems, shortcomings in safety and security.
mr president, the international fund for ireland has played a major role in peace and reconciliation in my country. since it was established in 1986, the fund has provided more than eur 838 million to a wide range of projects both in northern ireland and in the border counties. it continues to support projects in the economically disadvantaged regions. last week it allocated eur 9.8 million to support educational and community initiatives in northern ireland in the counties of donegal, monaghan and sligo. however, there is a lot of uncertainty at the moment as to the future. the us house of representatives recently included the fund in part of an overall reduction to the us overseas budget. i would expect that our incoming prime minister, our taoiseach, will raise the issue when he is in washington to celebrate st patrick’s day. tá sé ráite ag an aontas eorpach, mar atá ag rialtais na héireann agus na breataine, go bhfuil siad i bhfabhar leathnú a dhéanamh ar chlár an chiste. agus cé go bhfuil an tacaíocht a thugann na stáit aontaithe don chiste fíorthábhachtach, níl aon chúis ann nach leanfaidh an taontas eorpach agus rialtais na héireann agus na breataine leo ag tabhairt maoinithe don chiste ar bhonn teoranta agus spriocdhírithe.
mr president, there are a number of aspects here. one i would like to home in on is that the best way to eliminate inequalities in health is actually to make people more healthy. i am pleased that, prior to christmas, a number of colleagues and myself were successful in steering through parliament a written declaration aimed at making 100 million people in the european union more active by 2020, through sport, etc. i look forward to the european commission’s proposals on that. secondly, i am pleased to say that a new government has been formed in my country – an epp government with socialists – with one of its primary aims being universal health insurance. the idea is that money should follow the patient, and that the patient should have access to health care, regardless of status or wealth or anything else, based on need. i believe that this will be very successful. it is based on the dutch model and we are very pleased with it.
mr president, can i say that it is rather appropriate that as we debate this very important report, and i thank the rapporteur for it, 30 irish farmers are staging a sit-in protest in the offices of the european commission in dublin and they intend to stay overnight. this is a really serious matter. this report reflects the frustration of members of the committee on agriculture, and our farmers and consumers, about the incoherence between europe’s agriculture and food policy and trade policy. that is why the words in this report are strong. some people find them too strong, but i think they reflect that sense of frustration. and, from an irish beef farming perspective, you will decimate our livestock sector, a low-income sector. you will destroy our environment. also, may i add a few words about climate change consistency. the carbon footprint of brazilian beef is four times that of irish beef, so please read this report. i call urgently for it to be supported. (the president cut off the speaker).
mr president, like my irish colleagues, i am very concerned that the agricultural sector is being sacrificed on the high altar of big industry. this has to stop. certainly, the proposals regarding mercosur are not acceptable. they have been done far too quickly, without proper consultation with parliament, and they could decimate the agricultural industry. one can talk about compensation, but there is no way of compensating a society for the loss of its members, and particularly its agricultural industry, because this affects everybody in that society, particularly in rural communities. we are very concerned about this. the aspect of standards and production abroad vis-à-vis europe has to be taken into account, but at the end of the day the european union’s main duty is to protect its own, which is to say the agricultural sector here in europe.
i scríbhinn. – tá breis is 30 feirmeoir i mbun agóide, i bhfoirm ‘sit-in’, in oifig an choimisiúin eorpaigh i mbaile átha cliath, chun aird a tharraingt ar an íobairt, dar leo, atá á déanamh ar earnáil talmhaíochta an ae ar mhaithe le cúrsaí trádála. ní mór a chinntiú nach mbíonn aimhleas á dhéanamh ar fheirmeoirí ar mhaithe le cúrsaí trádála nó nach n-úsáidtear mar ghléas margála i gcaibidlíocht trádála iad. chuige sin fearaim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil láidir, tráthúil seo, agus roimh an gcáineadh atá ann ar an ngéilleadh a rinne an coimisiún i gcúrsaí talmhaíochta d’fhonn rochtain níos fearr a fháil ar mhargaí nua. tá sé riachtanach ó thaobh chumas iomaíochta agus inmharthanachta earnáil talmhaíochta an ae de go dtagtar ar mhargaí nua d’earraí ardchaighdeáin an ae; ach ní mór do na socruithe seo dul chun leasa earnáil talmhaíochta an ae seachas chun a haimhleasa, mar a d’fhéadfadh tarlú le comhshocrú trádála mercosur. tá táirgí talmhaíochta na héireann ar ardchaighdeán agus tá an-tóir orthu dá bharr, ach ní fhéadfaidh feirmeoirí na héireann leanúint leo mar atá má thugtar cead táirgí atá ar chaighdeán agus ar phraghas níos ísle a dhíol san ae.
mr president, i would just like to say to our rapporteur that this is a job very well done and a must-read report, because it emphasises our reliance on an imported product for our protein needs. i think your emphasis on the situation in which we find ourselves in relation to china is really important, because we do need to look at this from a food security perspective. there are two particular issues that i want to draw attention to. i understand your sensitivities regarding the gmo point in this report but, in terms of the here and now, this issue of the adventitious presence of non-approved gmo is of concern to livestock farmers in the european union. we do need to find a technical solution and i believe we are moving towards that with recent developments. i think paragraph 12, about processed animal proteins, is also very important as long as we apply the rules in relation to it. but this is one of the problems we have in the european union, where we banned certain animal proteins from the chain, for very good reasons relating to human and animal health, and therefore we do have a shortage. i welcome this report and i believe that it highlights one of the key problems for europe in supplying its animal feed needs for the livestock sector.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús comhghairdeachas leis an rapóirtéir mr häusling as ucht an t-ábhar tábhachtach seo a chur os ár gcomhair. i ndáiríre tá an cheist seo beagáinín scannalach, mar níl sé ceart go mbeadh laghdú ag teacht ar an bpróitéin san aontas eorpach. for me it was a huge shock to realise that we are actually dependent for our protein on importing 80% of our consumption. how can this happen in a european union so conducive to the production of agricultural goods, both crops and also cattle and other livestock? the rapporteur says two very important things – one is crop rotation. that is easier said than done, and certainly the market must be there to encourage farmers to change their practices. secondly, i would say also that this issue should be included as a target in the cap reform, which is coming up shortly, so that we do have self-sufficiency in protein production.
in writing. – as elected representatives, everyone in this chamber will be aware of the many sacrifices which our constituents and national governments have had to make over the past three years. education, health, transport and other frontline services have all seen their funding slashed across the eu. it is important that the european parliament has the necessary budget to properly fulfil the mandate which has been given to it from the european people. however, it is also necessary that the parliamentarians represent the same european people by ensuring that there is no frivolous spending, no unnecessary price increases and that value is found in a market where suppliers and business people are fighting for every last euro. i trust that both my colleagues in this chamber and those working throughout the european institutions will consider these principles in the years ahead.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór go mbeadh muintir an ae ábalta muinín a bheith acu as sábháilteacht gach earra atá ar díol ar mhargadh an ae, agus go mbeadh ardchaighdeáin sláinte agus sábháilteachta i bhfeidhm i gcónaí. is tuarascáil thábhachtach thráthúil í seo agus fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil inti, go háirithe ó thaobh eolas ar staidéir a bhaineann le sábháilteacht táirgí a roinnt, d’fhonn gearradh siar ar dhúbailt seirbhísí chun am agus acmhainní a shábháil. ní mór go mbeadh tomhaltóirí na heorpa cinnte de go bhfuil na táirgí atá á n-allmhairiú isteach san ae ar chomhchaighdeán leo siúd a dhéantar ann agus nach gcuirfeadh fairsingiú na trádala isteach ar shábháilteacht táirgí. tacaím leis an iarratas sa tuarascáil ar an gcoimisiún tuilleadh a dhéanamh laistigh den chácas idirnáisiúnta um shábháilteacht táirgí tomhaltais chun a chinntiú nach mbíonn ábhair chontúirteacha á dtabhairt isteach sa mhargadh aonair. tá sé ríthábhachtach go mbeadh an margadh aonair in ann déileáil leis an margadh ar líne agus leis an tionchar atá aige seo ar shábháilteacht táirgí agus ar fhaireachán margaidh. tuairiscítear go bhfuil méadú ag teacht ar líon na dtáirgí atá á gceannach ar líne ó thríú tíortha agus a sháraíonn caighdeáin an ae, rud a chuireann tomhaltóirí an ae i mbaol.
i scríbhinn. − ní foláir go mbeadh gach earra agus táirge atá ar díol ar mhargadh an ae ar ardchaighdeán sábháilteachta chun tomhaltóirí an aontais eorpaigh a chosaint.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím le príomh-mholtaí na tuarascála seo. mórphointe tábhachtach amháin sa tuarascáil ná go ngéilleann an coimisiún eorpach ar chúrsaí trádála go minic chun rochtain níos fearr ar mhargaí i dtríú tíortha a bhaint amach do tháirgí agus seirbhísí tionsclaíocha. tá sé ráite sa tuarascáil freisin go mba chóir go mbeadh na caighdeáin chéanna ó thaobh sláinte, sábhailteachta bia, leasa ainmhithe, forbartha inbhuanaithe agus bunchaighdeán sóisialta de i bhfeidhm i gcás modhanna táirgíochta d’earraí atá á n-allmhairiú ó thríú tíortha agus atá i bhfeidhm do tháirgeoirí an ae féin.
in writing. − i welcome this report on equality between women and men, which renews the european parliament’s call for the creation of a european year to fight violence against women, estimated to affect between 20 and 25% of all women in the course of their lives, and calls for a directive on violence against women. the economic crisis has serious consequences for women, who are at greater risk of poverty than men. indeed, on average, they are paid 18% less than men for equal work in the eu, a figure that rises above 25% in some member states, and are more likely to be precariously employed and/or employed part-time. moreover, women are less likely to be re-employed when they lose their jobs. as a result, they enjoy lower pensions later in life. tackling gender stereotypes is necessary but not enough. countering such disadvantages obviously requires serious public investment in care facilities. however, the barcelona council targets for childcare are yet to be attained, affecting lower income families the most. we have to empower more women at all levels of political representation in europe. gender equality is not only a matter of justice but also an imperative for social and economic development.
i scríbhinn. − go stairiúil, is iad na mná is mó atá i mbaol ón mbochtaineacht; máithreacha single agus mná atá os cionn 65 bliain d’aois, go háirithe. meastar go bhfuil leibhéal 36% de bhochtaineacht i measc na mban, i gcomparáid le 11% do na fir. san ae is mná níos sine is mó atá i mbaol – ráta bochtaineachta 22% dóibh siúd i gcomparáid le 16% d’fhir – toisc deacrachtaí a bheith acu teacht ar leas sóisialta agus ar an gcóras pinsin. vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo. tá an ceart ag an rapóirtéir go bhfuil bochtaineacht na mban ceilte toisc gur mná iad dhá thrian den daonra “neamhghníomhach”. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir lena chinntiú nach mbíonn mná a thugann aire do pháistí, othair, seandaoine nó daoine atá faoi mhíchumas thíos leis de bharr an chúraim sin, atá fíorthábhachtach don teaghlach agus don phobal. ní mór go mbeadh leas sóisialta ceart ar fáil do na mná sin agus iad ag dul in aois. aontaím go mba chóir do straitéis 2020 an ae feabhas a chur ar an ionadaíocht chothrom agus an rannpháirtíocht sa mhargadh saothair, agus lántacaíocht a thabhairt do leasuithe ar bheartais saothair agus sóisialta d’fhonn cothromaíocht eacnamaíoch agus shóisialta a chinntiú do na mná.
(blue-card question to mr farage under rule 149(8)) madam president, i hope mr farage is not offended by a question from a citizen of the irish republic. could i ask him what is the basis of the united kingdom? i understand it consists of the nations of the english, the scottish, the welsh and the northern irish. is this not a union of nations? a very proud one, i might add?
madam president, deliberate avoidance of economic governance and of banking regulation at both national and european level has delivered us into this crisis, and the crisis is obvious to everybody in terms of jobs, lack of growth, pensions lost etc. so, president barroso, and indeed commissioner olli rehn, you do not have to convince me that economic governance is necessary, that it must be strong, and that all member states, and particularly those in the eurozone, must buy into it. but we must convince the people of europe that it is necessary, and the way we will do that is by ensuring that it is legitimate. we ensure it is legitimate by refusing to accept any proposals which are not based on the treaties and not based on the community method. it will not be acceptable if it is perceived to be in the interests of one, two, three, four or five economically powerful states. that is the reality. and so it is extremely important for the future of this union that what is agreed at the informal council on 11 march, and what is agreed at the end of march, can be supported by the public at large in europe. the irish government that has just been elected in ireland has a strong mandate. i quote from the programme which it has just agreed: ‘we must step back from the edge of national insolvency (...) the eu-imf programme of support has – to date – failed to restore confidence in the irish economy (...) this reflects uncertainty over the affordability of the rescue package.’ i want to conclude on this point if i might, it is an important point. the failure of the programme contributes to the wider eurozone financial instability. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, my country, ireland, is a small open economy with a heavy concentration on foreign direct investment. the twelve and half per cent corporate rate is critical to supporting our economic recovery, retaining our jobs and employment growth. as a result of establishing a low corporate tax rate, eight of the world’s top technology firms are based in my country. any move towards converging or harmonising the rate of company tax in the european union would substantially damage ireland’s ability to attract foreign direct investment and hence our ability to grow to economic recovery. it is important to remember that ireland, like indeed other smaller countries, is geographically and historically a peripheral country in europe and a low tax rate is a tool, a tool to address the economic limitations which come with being a peripheral country. i want to pose a question to the president. can he confirm that under lisbon tax competence is a matter for each member state?
member of the commission. − the commission has advocated a minimum income and also a minimum wage, but we are speaking here about member state competences and member state responsibilities, and the subsidiarity principle comes into this discussion very strongly. in the crisis period, i agree, we have to pay specific attention to members of the vulnerable groups in society, especially those who are left without an income because they are also out of work, but we have to encourage the member states to use various means – and this is just one option – to prevent people falling into poverty. so the room for legislative initiatives here is extremely small, even though, at certain times, the political demand for them is very significant. with regard to the poverty of older people, this is a very complex subject, on which we have to work in the fields of employment, social services and social protection, and this leads me to the campaign next year on active ageing, which will be supported by policies in the areas of health care and preserving health, and lifelong learning, because we believe that the biggest progress we can make in terms of the living conditions and social inclusion of older people will be in enhancing participation in the labour market. we can then build additional policies on to that.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission is aware of the report of the federal environment agency and it has of course been subject to further in-depth examination of the facts. the whole thing is based on this: following the 2007 european council decision and subsequent decisions of the european parliament and the energy council, i.e. after extensive consultation in parliament and the member states, the commission presented its proposal for an ecodesign regulation in 2009. it provides for the gradual switch from conventional light bulbs to more efficient and thus more energy-saving light bulbs. we estimate that in the european market for lighting, for light bulbs, the final savings could be up to 40 billion kilowatt hours, which is a cost factor of five to a maximum of ten billion euros in electricity costs. we have also introduced various safety measures with the directive. these were last significantly reduced in september last year to further minimise the potential risks to the general public. the process of identifying the relevant issues from the study of the german federal environmental agency has led us to ask the scientific committee on health and environmental risks for an opinion once again. having reviewed all the scientific literature, this committee concludes that there is very little likelihood of any health risk arising from broken cfls. there 's a flaw here: the studies are based on studies in adults. it is clear that children deserve to be considered independently, which is why we will also obtain relevant findings for children as soon as possible in cooperation with the federal environment agency. we're monitoring the situation very closely. i am in contact with the federal environmental agency so that we can jointly evaluate other series of measurements of the federal environmental agency as soon as possible. the overall assessment, and the confidence that all parties must have, leads us to the conclusion that we should not abandon the further gradual implementation of this regulation, but we will be happy to report back to parliament if there are any findings that suggest a different assessment. that is the state of affairs at the moment.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in reply, i would point out that even after the switchover, and especially afterwards, there will be lamps on the market that eliminate any potential hazard. your question relates to cfl lamps, compact fluorescent lamps, and therefore we should consider intensifying our public relations work on the ecodesign directive and informing the public about the new generation of led lamps and incandescent lamps with halogen technology. this could achieve both the environmental and energy-saving objectives of the regulation on the one hand and the elimination of all hazards on the other. i'd like to go over it again.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, more than 30 million people across europe are reported to be victims of crime every year. it is important that we ensure that victims have access to their rights and receive the support and protection they need. this is a strategic priority for the commission. let me take this opportunity to highlight the courage of mrs hughes, who is campaigning for stronger victims’ rights across europe. i think that her determination should serve as an inspiration to us all to strengthen victims’ rights and to reinforce citizens’ trust in our judicial systems. we need this stronger mutual trust to ensure that the victim’s needs are recognised and protected, not only at home but also cross-border. we need to ensure, too, that victims are not forgotten by our judicial and legal systems. that why the commission will propose a comprehensive package on victims in may. this will address the quality of treatment that victims receive in the aftermath of a crime and during the criminal proceedings. it will ensure that victims receive the same minimum standards of treatment in all eu member states, irrespective of their nationality or country of origin. our proposals aim to promote a change in attitudes towards victims, to do more to ensure their recovery, and to minimise the risk of their being further harmed by repeat victimisation during the proceedings. in very concrete terms, what will the package consist of? firstly, a horizontal directive on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, which will, for example, clearly establish the following enforceable rights: easily accessible victim support services in all member states; the right to interpretation during interviews; a minimising of contact between the offender and the victim during proceedings, with any new courts to be designed so as to provide separate waiting areas; and the right in all member states to request a review of the prosecution. secondly, i will also propose a regulation on the mutual recognition of civil-law protection measures to ensure that any victim who is at risk, and who benefits from a protection measure taken against a potential offender in one member state, can continue to benefit from such a measure when they move or travel to another member state. that instrument will be complemented by another instrument on the mutual recognition of criminal-law protection measures. we also intend to introduce a wide range of non-legislative measures to ensure that the new legislation works effectively, and we will propose a road map on the strengthening of victims’ rights to ensure that these rights remain high on the political agenda in the years to come.
vice-president of the commission. − i absolutely agree. i too have felt that victims have been somewhat absent. with regard to procedural rights, we have focused strongly on people who get into trouble because they may have committed a crime: we have been concerned to see that their rights are looked after, as we should be in our rights-based society. very often, however, victims are victimised a second time when they come to court, and nobody cares. it is a very unfair situation, amounting to a negation of rights. that is why i hope this victim package will change not only laws but also mentalities, and that everywhere in our courts, our police stations and our hospitals – as the honourable member rightly urged – people will have a special care for victims and will know that they should not be treated just like anyone else. it is of the utmost importance that this should also apply cross-border, to people in a member state other than their country of origin. so i rely on parliament to help the commission produce the best legislation possible, and also – with regard to the codecision aspects of the package – to be swift so that it can be put forward for agreement with the council.
member of the commission. − the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is an important initiative in removing obstacles to the single market, and was identified in the annual growth survey as a growth-enhancing initiative to be frontloaded. indeed, it will tackle some major fiscal impediments to companies’ competitiveness. at the moment, the lack of common corporate tax rules and the divergence of national tax systems often lead to over-taxation and double taxation. moreover, businesses are faced with heavy administrative burdens and high tax compliance costs. this situation creates disincentives to investment in the eu and runs counter to the priorities set in the europe 2020 strategy. significant progress has been made so far on the technical preparation of the ccctb proposal. it is now time to offer companies a single set of rules to make it easier and cheaper to do business in the single market. the ccctb is scheduled for adoption by the college of commissioners on 16 march 2011. i am convinced that the final proposal will greatly contribute to a better environment for businesses, growth and jobs in the eu.
thank you, commissioner, for your answer. just three short questions and i hope you will be in a position to answer them. do you envisage ccctb as being voluntary? secondly, do you envisage any circumstances in which domestic courts might lose their jurisdiction in tax matters if whatever decision they take impacts on yields in another member state? and finally, i expect at this stage some formula has been arrived at for the apportionment of tax that is payable in the different member states. has any impact analysis been done by the commission on winners and losers, and by that i mean winners and losers in financial terms, under whatever formula you have already come up with?
i have been in here since the beginning of question time, which was supposed to start at 19.30. there are a lot of people in my country, which gets a new government tomorrow, who are interested in the question which i have put to commissioner rehn. i ask you, please, even we have to sit for an extra few minutes, that my question be allowed and that the commissioner be allowed to respond to it.
this is an absolute farce and this is a point of order. question time, we were told, was to be from 19.30 to 20.30. you, or somebody, decided that the previous debate would be allowed to trespass on question time. it is one of the few avenues for people to ask questions of a commissioner. we have a crisis in ireland; my colleagues gay mitchell, pat the cope gallagher and myself have tabled questions. who decided? i want to know now – and this is a legitimate question – who decided that what should be a twenty-minute session, and we are only eight minutes into it, should be reduced to an eight or nine-minute session. who decided that, madam president?
but who decided that commissioner šemeta could have three questions and commissioner rehn could only have one question? mr higgins’ was the second question to commissioner rehn and mine the third question. how did one commissioner get a number of questions and another only one question? i do not understand that.
having read the three questions, 23 from higgins, 24 from mitchell and 25 from gallagher, i can only assume that the commissioner would have grouped those three together and therefore can we not, or have you the right to, trespass on the next debate? because at all times it is question time that suffers. so if we can trespass, maybe the commissioners will be good enough to give us some more of their time after 9 o’clock.
madam president, i waited until you had finished the questions before i made an interruption because i knew you were stuck for time, but i, like my other colleagues, would like to put on the record of the house that this is a further diminishing of a key resource for members – especially for backbench members of this house. i think that it is wrong that you were put in the position whereby you were forced to cut us back, but likewise i do not believe it is all the leaders’ fault either, because the running of the schedule on the day is for whoever is in the chair. obviously whoever was in the chair before you allowed things to run out of kilter slightly, which put you in an embarrassing position. maybe we could come to an agreement and you, with the bureau and with the vice-presidents, could agree that this section, question time, is sacrosanct and that that will not be changed. if a debate needs to stop and resume after question time finishes, so be it. i will be putting that to my own group leader, and i hope others will do the same, but i would also ask you to bring it up with the bureau.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very important report. it is good to see that industry is back on europe’s agenda. i think that what we need is a balanced european economy. i speak mainly on agriculture and food policy, but i was moved to participate in this debate because i think talking about industry and agriculture and services is really important. europe needs a balance of all three and not to recognise that would be very foolish. i want in particular to draw attention to paragraph 112, which talks about free trade being the cornerstone of europe’s economic growth, but also talks about fair global competition and, in particular, urges that, when we come to do bilateral trade agreements or multilateral agreements, we must take account of the principles of sustainable development, social and environmental concerns and relevant standards in those agreements. those of us on the agriculture side would say the very same. so i think this is an important report on all fronts.
madam president, i must say that i am very concerned about some of the aspects i have listened to here in parliament recently – tonight, the shortage of rare earth elements; last night, the 80% deficiency in protein; a few weeks ago, sugar beet factories being closed down and now we have a deficiency in sugar. i think it is time the european union started putting itself first and particularly trying to promote its industries. obviously, where rare earth elements are concerned, i welcome the commissioner’s commitment to look at innovation in terms of getting substitution, etc. (and also recycling), but above all to look at new technologies. i attended a seminar a few weeks ago in brussels which described new technology developed to get rare elements from the seabed. at the end of the day we have to look to be self-sufficient. it is good for the commissioner to go to brazil and to talk to china, but if diplomacy fails and they do not give us what we want, where do we go? if we do not have a strong economy, we will be irrelevant politically.
madam president, firstly i must say that i find myself in agreement with the commissioner and compliment him on his balanced presentation. security of energy supply has to be the sine qua non of european energy policy as we go forward. obviously and ideally, we would have this from renewable sources and we have our policies in that regard, but otherwise we have to look for it from other sources. we cannot continue to be dependent on russia – you saw what they did in georgia a few years ago – and on regimes like gaddafi’s at the present time, with the effect this has on prices. we look to ourselves, and if we have alternatives – which we have here through shale gas – we must exploit those to the full. there are those who are concerned about the environment, but the european union’s record on the environment is second to none. ask any farmer in europe and they will tell you how concerned we are about the environment and the measures we take to protect it. the same can apply here, but we have to look at every means of getting gas from alternative suppliers and – if i might say this tongue in cheek – we can have great gas in so doing.
mr president, i have no doubts whatsoever that europe needs a permanent stability mechanism. i have fought many political battles and referendums over democratically legitimate community decision-making. i therefore have deep reservations about the treaty mechanism being proposed by the heads of state to establish and manage the esm. i urge the heads of state to reflect very deeply on the consequences for europe if they reject the broad consensus of this directly elected parliament. yes, we need a speedy decision, but for such a fundamental issue we must comply with the treaties. the elephant in the room is a concern that a change in the wording, or switching to the ordinary procedure, might trigger a referendum in ireland. my reaction as a democrat is quite simple: so what? i respect the people. i do not fear the people. i believe that ireland is a mature democracy capable of recognising where our best interest lies and that is at the heart of europe.
a uachtaráin, vótálas i bhfabhar na tuarascála breá seo agus i ndáiríre bhí sé in am dúinn díriú ar bheartas tionsclaíochta don aontas eorpach. gan dabht ar bith, táimid imithe ar gcúl le blianta beaga anuas i gcomparáid le tíortha móra an domhain, ach tá súil agam go rachaimid ar aghaidh amach anseo. mr president, having indicated my support for the document, i want to express my concern at one item in the explanatory statement, where on page 32 it calls for the harmonisation of company tax. now that is something my country would not agree with. company tax or corporation tax is very important to us and it is up to each country to set its own rate. indeed, it is well known that some countries allegedly have a high corporation tax but in reality they pay far less. bíodh sin mar atá, is tuarascáil bhreá í seo agus tá an-áthas orm cuidiú léi.
in writing. − i voted to change the 2012 calendar to save taxpayers’ money, to save co2 emissions and to lessen the disruption to parliament business by the monthly trip to strasbourg.
in writing. − i voted to restrict the ep budget for 2012, given the economic, financial and social constraints on eu member states. we undertook to seek to cut some spending and to justify the rest in detail. however, projects already under way, such as the house of european history, should not be jeopardised. this is an austerity budget which stays in line with inflation. at the same time, cuts must not have a negative impact on the quality on parliament’s legislative work.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go láidir leis an méid atá á dhéanamh ar leibhéal an ae chun stráitéis chomhtháite a bhunú do réigiún an atlantaigh. ní mór go ndíreodh straitéis an atlantaigh ar fhorbairt eacnamaíoch oileáin agus réigiún cósta an atlantaigh a spreagadh. is ceann de na ceantair is saibhre i dtaca le fuinneamh gaoithe, toinne agus taoide é réigiún an atlantaigh, ach níl a dhóthain leasa á bhaint as an gcumas fuinnimh sin. is acmhainní eacnamaíocha luachmhara freisin iad gníomhaíochta fóillíochta agus turasóireachta réigiún cósta an atlantaigh. tá fíorchumas fáis ansin, mar shampla muiríní straitéiseacha a fhorbairt i ngach tír. bhainfeadh earnálacha an iompair mhuirí, na gcalafort agus an bhia mhara – an dobharshaothrú san áireamh – leas ar leith as comhoibriú níos déine a bhunú i measc na mballstát atá taobh leis an atlantach. ní mór d’aon straitéis don atlantach cloí le forálacha an chomhbheartais iascaigh. tá feabhas tagtha le blianta anuas ar an gcomhoibriú atá ann idir na ballstáit ar shaincheisteanna sábháilteachta, slándála agus faireachais muirí. ós rud é go bhfuil limistéar chuar an atlantaigh chomh leathan sin, áfach, ní mór straitéis chomhtháite a chur i bhfeidhm chun a chinntiú go mbíonn gníomhaíochtaí níos fearr agus níos éifeachtaí á gcomheagrú ag na ballstáit.
in writing. − i voted for this report as europe's 10-12 million roma should benefit from binding minimum standards at eu level to improve their access to employment, education, housing and healthcare. the resolution, which seeks to influence the commission’s upcoming strategy for roma inclusion, also calls for better protection of fundamental rights and use of eu funding. i hope eu governments now respond to this strong message from parliament.
i scríbhinn. − tá 57 milliún duine fostaithe san ae in earnáil na tionsclaíochta agus tá 75% d’onnmhairí na heorpa i gceist leis an earnáil chéanna. beidh an earnáil sin ag croílár chumas iomaíochta an ae amach anseo. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil i straitéis 2020 an ae maidir le poist agus oiliúint atá ar ardchaighdeán a spreagadh d’fhonn cúnamh agus tacaíocht a thabhairt d’fhorbairt an bhoinn thionsclaíoch agus chuige sin vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála. ós rud é gurb iad na gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide a chruthaíonn dhá thrian de phoist na hearnála, fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le rochtain na ngnóthas beag ar dheiseanna soláthair phoiblí agus ról na ngnóthas beag i bhfeabhas a chur ar an mbeartas tionsclaíochta. ní mór go mbeadh fáil níos fearr ag na gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide ar an gclár réime agus go dtabharfaí cúnamh agus tacaíocht don aistriú teicneolaíochta agus don nuáil. táim ar aon intinn leis an rapóirtéir go mba chóir don ae braislí nuálacha a fhorbairt agus a spreagadh i limistéir réigiúnacha. mórbhuntáistí na mbraislí sin ná a gcumas eolas a aistriú, gníomhachtaí taighde, cáilíochtaí agus infrastruchtúr a fhorbairt, agus deiseanna fostaíochta a spreagadh i limistéir réigiúnacha.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate and can i say at the outset that i appreciate the briefing arranged by the high representative yesterday on the issues surrounding libya. six million jews were murdered in the second world war here in europe. between the two world wars – the first world war and the second world war – 60 million europeans were killed, leaving aside the people from all other parts of the world who died. according to a recent edition of the economist magazine, there is a deficit of 100 million women because of gender-based abortion. this is not to do with abortion because a woman’s life is in danger, or because she is in danger of having a back-street abortion. it is because she is a woman. yesterday was women’s day. this was not raised here. when is political correctness going to be overcome, so that we can have respectful debates here, so that we do not turn our heads the other way, as happened in the first half of the last century, so that we raise these issues, so that we ask why this is? this house disgraced itself. it voted down an amendment not to fund infanticide. not to fund coercive abortion. how in the name of god could we vote down something like that? i am sick of this political correctness that does not allow debate on issues in this house in a respectful manner that allows different views to be expressed. i want to know from the high representative if you are you going to raise this issue with the un? may i say in conclusion that i find the attitude and some of the decisions of the court of human rights here in strasbourg, which is not an institution of the european union, absolutely extraordinary. when are we going to be able to discuss this issue? why were there no women yesterday who asked about the missing 100 million women who have been terminated because they were women? it is wrong and there should be no disagreement in this house on that issue in particular. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i know ms de keyser’s position on this and i respect it. it is more than i received from her in relation to my view. we have to have respectful debate in this house, where people hear each other’s views and then we come to conclusions. i have not heard anybody from the socialist or liberal side raise in this house the issue of gender-based abortion. not only did they not raise it, they voted down a resolution put to this house not to fund infanticide or coercive abortion. it is a shameful occurrence, on the record of this house, for those people who did it. please let us have respectful debate in this house. that is what this european union is supposed to be about – unity in diversity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to thank the honourable member for that point. if we were a bit more respectful of each other’s positions and tried to reach common ground, we would find that there is a lot we can do to roll back on this agenda, but please can we all open our minds? i really do find it hard that parliament would vote down an amendment not to fund coercive abortion, not to fund infanticide. let us have this sort of discussion and see what we can do to stop this gender-based abortion. we can have disagreements in other areas. i personally have no difficulty with reproductive health support; it is when it comes to the abortion area i have difficulty for very good reasons and i would be happy to debate them. i am not an ogre; i am not something from the past. i have a well thought out view on this and i would be happy to discuss it with anybody. i thank the members for what they have said.
mr president, the current situation in the region is both full of risk and full of hope. for me the emergence of democratic movements among israel’s neighbours is a cause of celebration. we must reject the racist stereotype that regards them as a threat. i led a parliamentary delegation to gaza and the west bank in december 2010. the most heart-rending story was that of a little boy who brought his toys to school every day because he was not sure when he came home whether his home and his family would still be there. that child’s parents want peace. every member of the plc that we met, both in the west bank and in gaza, wants secure israeli and palestinian borders based on the 1967 green line. they also want the settlements to stop. it is incomprehensible that prime minister netanyahu has refused appeals from all of israel’s allies to stop the settlements. simply to stop them. not to dismantle them. to stop them. it is necessary in order for serious negotiations to get underway for those settlements to stop. i would appeal to ms ashton to ensure that that appeal goes again to the israeli authorities: to please stop the settlements and get the talks going. we must support the efforts of president abbas and prime minister fayyad to peacefully lead the palestinian people to a palestinian state. we do not know what the consequences will be if we do not do that soon.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this opportunity to dispel some widely held misunderstandings regarding the irish programme. the s&d group’s question that gave rise to this statement raises honourable members’ concern that certain economic policy conditions set out in the memorandum of understanding of the economic adjustment programme for ireland are in legal conflict with article 153(5) of the treaty. that paragraph excludes the adoption of provisions in the field of pay under article 153, that is in the field of social policy. however, the economic adjustment programme for ireland is not a social policy programme and is not adopted under article 153. it is a financial assistance programme set up, together with the irish government, to restore domestic and external confidence and remove the harmful feedback loops between the fiscal and financial crisis. therefore it is grounded in article 122(2) of the treaty, which allows for union financial assistance if a member state is seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control. the role of the mou is to specify the economic policy conditions that serve as a benchmark for assessing the irish policy performance during the financial assistance programme. the member state has full ownership of these economic policy conditions and their implementation. these conditions are commitments of the member state that are undertaken by the state itself. it is not eu action in the respective fields. indeed, many of the conditions, such as the minimum wage reduction, were already included in the irish government’s national recovery plan that was published on 24 november 2010, before the start of the programme. the aim of the conditions relating to labour market policy is to create jobs and to avoid long-term unemployment in ireland amongst the most vulnerable groups. the minimum wage reduction is part of this wider package of measures and needs to be seen together with activation policies and efforts to modernise the benefit system. when evaluating the reduction in one of the highest minimum wages in the european union – it is, for instance, the second highest in the eurozone – and although there was significant wage adjustment in the economy, with the minimum wage, in common with wages in general in ireland, falling by 3% in real terms in 2008, followed by a rise of 0.3% in 2009, it should be noted that most of the labour market adjustments took the form of job losses. in fact the minimum wage cut only restored the status quo prevailing before 1 january 2007, i.e. before the crisis. the other condition mentioned in the question is an independent review of sectoral collective bargaining. the motivation of the review is to discuss the fairness and efficiency of employment conditions for both employees and employers across sectors. i would like to highlight the fact that ireland has a long-standing tradition of tripartite consultation on economic and social policy and that the successive pacts between the government and the social partners since the 1980s have been widely recognised as major factors in the success of the irish economy. the review is an opportunity for the social partners to voice opinions and shape policy, and its announcement was welcomed as such. i am fully confident that the review will be carried out by the irish government in a way that recognises the importance of social dialogue, includes all the social partners and complies with community law. finally, the conditions in the memorandum of understanding with regard to structural reform are not only about the labour market. they also contain important measures to open up product markets such as overly regulated sectors and professions. these reforms could have a major effect on customer prices and productivity, which support the purchasing power of households.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner. yesterday, a new national government for recovery was voted into power in ireland. fine gael and labour are part of the ppe and s&d groups respectively in this parliament. one of the issues high up on the agenda of the new programme for government will be the renegotiation of elements of the eu/imf programme of support to ireland. at present, many irish people fear that the conditions agreed by the then government in the eu/imf programme of support are too stringent and place a heavy burden on ordinary citizens who have had to bear the brunt for the mistakes of the banks – both irish and european – and the government. we should note that the new government has agreed to reverse the reduction in the minimum wage. we know, however, that recovery cannot happen without pain. ireland went down a similar road in the 1980s. many of the difficult conditions as laid out by the eu/imf programme are necessary if we are to restore healthy public finances. we must prune the tree in order to allow growth. i welcome the commission’s support for an interest rate reduction as stated by commissioner rehn. this should come about as soon as possible and i urge the commission to really look at this at an early date. the commissioner emphasised that all measures are weighed up against their effect on growth, competitiveness and the sustainability of public finances in the long run. i accept that; we cannot carry the entire burden we have been asked to carry at once. the irish people have taken their responsibilities in this matter; in fact they have taken other people’s responsibilities as well, because we were given no alternative. what they have done is not just for ireland but also for europe and the eurozone in particular. we do not need the straw to break the camel’s back. please give the irish people the tools; we will do the job ourselves, but please do not expect the irish people to carry a burden that they are not capable of carrying. so i ask the commissioner to bear those comments in mind in particular in the days and weeks ahead.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner is telling us that the memorandum of understanding was drawn up under article 122, part 2. i would like to ask the commissioner what happens when one article of the treaty is in direct contradiction with other articles in the treaty; as stephen hughes has asked, how do we decide on the hierarchy? it is in contradiction with article 153. it is also in contradiction with article 9, the social clause, which i have quoted many times in this chamber when speaking about the irish austerity package, where it says that in defining and implementing all its policies and activities, the union shall take into account requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment and the fight against social exclusion, etc.. and what about article 28 in the charter of fundamental rights, under which workers have the rights to negotiate and conclude collective agreements and, in the cases of conflicts of interest, to take collective action to defend their interests, including strike action? many irish workers would see that they are in that position at the moment. how do we deal with the contradiction between the different articles in the treaty? another question for you, commissioner: are you stating that the memorandum of understanding was entirely the responsibility of the irish government and that the commission acquiesced or agreed? finally, let us assume here you have the power to do all of this – and you are telling us you have; why then was there no effort to reduce or eliminate bank bonuses? why was there no effort to ensure that those at the top of the salary scale paid their fair share? why is it that one euro was deducted from the minimum wage? i agree entirely with what stephen hughes has said: this fuels anti-european sentiment. citizens see what is happening. they see how the commission is working in this whole process, and what they see is that it is those on the minimum wage, those who are in collective agreements, are being hit with these austerity plans. finally my main question, commissioner, is: who decides? is it the court of justice? who decides when articles of the treaty are in conflict or when the commission acts in such a way as to bring those articles into conflict with one another?
mr president, the memorandum of understanding in relation to labour market issues is very clearly based on a simplistic economic theory that lower wages will ‘clear the market’, in other words, end unemployment. that is total and utter nonsense. it is not supported by practice on the ground. and i would draw the commission’s attention to the forfás review of labour cost competitiveness in ireland, produced late last year, which says that firms generally prefer layoffs to pay cuts because they harm morale less. if you want to look at why we have had more layoffs than wage cuts in ireland, that is the basis of it. i would appeal to the commission to comply with european law and stop interfering in labour market issues in ireland. as you say, we have a long tradition of social partnership agreements in ireland. indeed they are the basis of the fact that there has been no violence on the streets in ireland: it is because the social partners and the government have sat down and made arrangements to adjust the labour market and adjust conditions to ensure that we can have some hope of recovery from the current crisis. that tradition has ensured progress in ireland, but the programme generally is failing to do what it was intended to do, which was to assist the economy in ireland to grow. it is not growing. in fact it is in decline, and that programme has to be generally renegotiated. i would suggest in particular that the issues relating to the labour market have to be removed. as has already been stated, the irish government, of which my party is a member, has already declared that it will reverse the minimum wage cut as agreed in that programme. you may be unhappy with that, but that is going to happen. you can be certain as well that your attempt to interfere with the registered employment agreements act, which has been in place for more than 50 years, will not be interfered with, as you hope, because the current government is determined that social partnership will play its traditional role in ensuring that we have industrial peace and progress.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank everybody for their contributions. i can promise you that we give serious consideration to each of them. let me first say a few words about the importance and relevance of social dialogue. we fully recognise the importance of social dialogue and constructive industrial relations. we have continuously engaged with the social partners, both at eu level and in individual countries. for instance, commissioner rehn personally met with ireland’s trade union leaders in early november, as did officials from the commission, the ecb and the imf when negotiating the programme in late november. they will continue to engage on the next mission in april and on subsequent occasions. by the way, contrary to some allegations, the commission did not force ireland to cut the minimum wage or social expenditure. these measures were already presented by the former irish government itself in its national recovery plan, together with other fiscal and structural measures aiming at economic stability, growth and job creation. the legal basis of the economic policy conditions is article 3(5) of council regulation (eu) no 407/2010 establishing a european financial stabilisation mechanism and article 2(2) of the council implementing decision 2011/77/eu on granting union financial assistance to ireland. once again, both are grounded in article 122(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the mere fact that the memorandum of understanding’s specific economic policy conditions touch upon various issues that are linked to social policy does not put into question the legal basis of the act. there appears to be no contradiction with article 152 or article 153(5). article 152 is a general provision which does not exclude the possible need for specific measures with social consequences. moreover, that provision does not create subjective rights for the social partners. article 153(5) is a limit as regards the content of the measures that can be adopted under article 153, i.e. social policy. since the mou is not adopted on the basis of article 153, this limit does not apply. the provisions of title 10, social policy, cannot be disregarded. they have to be taken into account, but it does not mean that as a consequence of article 153(5) no measures having an effect on pay can be adopted on the basis of article 122. the measures adopted on the basis of article 122 for ireland do not regulate issues. they provide for conditions linked to the granting of union assistance. this is explicitly allowed by article 122(2). therefore there is no legal problem as regards the principle of conferral. more generally, the issue of economic policy conditions is not about eu competences in the field of social policy or wages. the conditions included in the programme cover a wide range of policy areas, and for most of them the competence lies with the member state. the economic policy conditions of the programme are member state commitments agreed with the eu and the imf on the measures that the member states will undertake in exchange for eu/imf financing. as a final note, the commission fully acknowledged that any financial assistance programme naturally has social consequences. however, the main goal of the specific economic policy conditions attached to such a programme is to avoid much graver social consequences by setting the country back on the path of sustained growth and job creation.
mr president, i would have to ask your assistance to identify when a commissioner stands here in this parliament and says on the one hand that ireland is not being forced to reduce its minimum wage or to reduce its social protection and then goes on to say that the agreement is a conditionality; that these are conditionalities for receiving aid – is that not a fundamental contradiction and a misleading ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, there is much talk about buzz words here today, but the key buzz word is the first word up on the board: prevention. as the old adage says, ‘prevention is better than cure’ and certainly we have to try and prevent natural disasters based on recent trends, to get out some kind of a forecast and to put preventive actions in place. we also need some type of a trans-european insurance mechanism, because otherwise affected areas will not be able to afford insurance. for instance in my own area, in the town of clonmel insurance has gone up sixfold because of the risk of flooding. finally, i want to ask how many countries can actually say that they have complied with the commission’s recommendations, especially in relation to the floods directive? i know it has not been applied properly in my country. countries have to take responsibility just the same as the commission. by working together we can at least alleviate the difficulties.
mr president, the volcanic ash crisis last year prompted the cancellation of close to 100 000 flights, resulting in absolute chaos for passengers. it is the effect that this crisis had on passengers that i wish to draw the commission's attention to today. over 10 million people were affected and the cancellations resulted in significant economic costs for thousands of passengers. while airports have signs and leaflets informing travellers of their rights, this is often of little use when faced with cancellations or major travel disruptions such as that caused by the ash cloud. under eu legislation passengers have a right to information and assistance from their airline. however, in reality the majority of passengers whose travel has been disrupted will spend a lot of time and money chasing down information, seeking alternative tickets or compensation with airlines. this is an issue that the commission needs be more effective on. the biggest frustration that passengers face in situations like this is trying to get information, trying to get in contact with the airlines. although they are aware of their rights, this of little help to them if they are stranded in an airport on hold to an airline. while i appreciate that, at the time of the ash crisis, airlines were under unprecedented pressure to deal with thousands of passengers – and i must admit that some did admirably – in general it is very difficult for people to get information and assistance when it is needed. the travel chaos as a result of the bad weather in december 2010 further demonstrates this. passengers require up-to-date information but they need to be able to reach the airlines in order to exercise their rights. airlines, airport customer services and information need to be more accessible to passengers whose travel has been disrupted. it is not enough to inform european union citizens of their passenger rights; they must be assisted in exercising them in times of travel chaos.
mr president, as many colleagues have stated, the volcanic ash crisis caused significant air traffic disruption and economic damage in 2010, damage that is still unquantifiable. over 10 million passengers were directly affected as 100 000 flights were cancelled across europe. i come from ireland, and irish air passengers faced extreme difficulties due to this ash cloud, as ireland does not have land crossings to mainland europe. i had to take sea crossings and trains, taxis and cars to get here to strasbourg, which took me over 24 hours without sleep. of course that is a small price to pay; we have to ensure that safety is paramount. the situation did however highlight the overwhelming need for a common policy. i welcome the recent initiatives by commissioner kallas to implement the single european sky and to establish functional air space. i also welcome the statement here today by commission hahn and i fully support these measures, as volcanic ash clouds recognise no political or geographical boundaries.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm gur glacadh leis na tairiscintí i gcomhair rún maidir le cearta an duine, agus bhí sé ceart ag an aontas eorpach é sin a dhéanamh. ach tá míniú beag amháin le déanamh agam. mr president, regarding amendment 2, paragraph 8, my irish colleagues and i in our group voted in favour because we consider sanitation, and above all clean water, to be a fundamental human right, and from my own experience of working in africa on a voluntary basis i saw the difference access to fresh water makes to the lives of people. so i feel that, by accepting it as a fundamental human right, this may create the urgency to ensure that all citizens of the world have access, above all, to clean fresh water. dá bhrí sin, bhí áthas orm gur glacadh leis – agus sin é mo scéal.
mr president, kashgar is a city of three and a half million people, a bit smaller than the population of the entire island of ireland. it is closer to baghdad than it is to beijing. it is on the great trading route of the silk road and has some of the best preserved islamic architecture sites, some of which are buried beneath the desert. it also has the largest mosque tomb in china and is a treasure, there is no doubt about that. however, as has been said, it is under a great threat, ostensibly because the chinese want to redevelop the city because of its susceptibility to earthquakes. that is not acceptable to us, because we feel that a great treasure would be lost. what can we do about it? perhaps very little, but at least highlighting it here today is important. we can, as we said, ask that it be included among the silk road world heritage sites. perhaps we could also make people aware of the treasures that are there, so that the people there can preserve them into the future. it would be the world’s loss, but a bigger loss to china.
in writing. − i welcome today’s vote in the european parliament on the proposed treaty change. however, it is a matter of the utmost importance for the heads of state summit this weekend to honour its agreement with the european parliament. as far as most meps are concerned, the process used by the council in arriving at their proposed text is very unsatisfactory. if it were not for the fact that it is extremely important for the eurozone and that a permanent european stability mechanism (esm) is urgently required, particularly for small member states such as ireland, i for one would be voting against the original proposal. the text we have agreed on in the european parliament today is the minimum necessary to ensure legitimacy for the setting up of the mechanism and its operation. however it does not signal any agreement by the socialists and democrats group to the draconian austerity programmes expected of some member states without reference to their economic sustainability.
i scríbhinn. − de réir tuairime dlíthiúla, tá leasú teoranta ar an gconradh ag teastáil d’fhonn a chinntiú go mbíonn an mheicníocht eorpach um chobhsaíocht laistigh de chreat institiúideach an aontais eorpaigh.
mr president, like mr barroso i would also like to concentrate on the economic situation, particularly as my country is the recipient of an eu and imf bailout at this particular time. however, we have a new government and new hope in ireland. in his very first speech, our taoiseach said he wanted to build bridges in europe, pay our way and pull our weight – and that is what we are determined to do. however, there are two things we need in particular to do that. firstly, the interest rate charged is draconian and is not sustainable. we would like to see that reduced by at least 1% to 2%. secondly, we also need a continued guarantee of funding for our banks until such time as they are functional again. we do not need to be pressurised regarding our corporation tax and we particularly do not need lectures from people like mr sarkozy, who seems very cosy with an effective rate of 8.2% in france, while our effective rate is actually 11.9%. perhaps he should look at the plank in his own eye before he casts his gaze across the irish sea. what is the quid pro quo? one, we will have the austerity package in place, much to the chagrin and pain of our citizens. two, we will consider, if required, a debt pact, like the one they have had in germany since 2009. three, we will also consider a european independent fiscal agency. that also is very important because i do not believe there is such a thing as an independent national agency. i would ask mr barroso, on this his birthday, and his colleagues, to help ireland help itself on this one occasion and we will not come calling again for help by way of a bailout.
a uachtaráin, tacaím leis an méid atá á dhéanamh ag rialtas na héireann chun ísliúchán ar an ráta úis faoi chlár an ae-imf d’éirinn a bhaint amach. tá sé léirithe ag an gcoimisiún eorpach go mbeidh siad sásta tacaíocht a thabhairt d’ísliúchán ar an ráta úis, agus bheinn ag súil go dtiocfaidh na 27 mballstát ar chomhréiteach maidir le hathphlé a dhéanamh ar an cheist seo. it is in the interest of both ireland and the european union to ensure that our debt is sustainable. it is essential that the pricing of the eu financial assistance mechanism is affordable and that it is fair. it is widely reported that some countries are seeking concessions from ireland in return for an interest rate reduction. it would appear that pressure is on ireland to increase its corporation tax, for example – i do not have time to go into the issue of effective tax as against corporate tax – (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, two themes have emerged in the aftermath of the tragic events which struck japan 12 days ago. the first has been the japanese response which, in terms of structural preparation in the cities, the rapid response of the emergency units and the inspirational resilience shown by the japanese people, has been exemplary and should serve as a template for other earthquake-prone countries. however, the second theme, that of the nuclear fallout in fukushima, is more difficult. while japan will undoubtedly learn swiftly from these events, europe too must take these lessons on board and our reaction might be broken up into two areas. the first is to secure beyond doubt the safety of nuclear power plants operating in the eu. i welcome plans for tests and would like to stress that they must conclude with common rules between member states on the security of nuclear power plants and on the storing of highly toxic nuclear waste. this is particularly pertinent in my ireland east constituency. the largest collection of such material is housed at sellafield nuclear plant in england just 280 kilometres from county louth. our second response should concern the future of nuclear power as a whole. in this regard, a complete halt to the construction of new nuclear power plants must be agreed. in order to ensure the continued provision of sufficient energy for the eu, investments in renewable energy production and increased energy efficiency must also be approved.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús an tuasal schwab agus a chairde a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta acu le breis agus dhá bhliain anuas anois. gan dabht tá gaisce déanta acu. molaim freisin bean győri ó uachtaránacht na hungáire: tá an-díograis inti, tá sí anseo ar feadh an lae go léir agus bíonn sí in strasbourg i gcónaí chomh maith. ní dóigh liom go bhfaca mé aon duine chomh díograiseach léi go dtí seo. this is about the internal market, harmonisation, adding value: all very important. it is not the final product, but it is a work in progress: particularly noteworthy are things such as the right of withdrawal, unfair contract terms and particularly the flexibility clauses which give flexibility to national governments. if we had the same in other directives such as the egaf, they would work better. finally, i just want to say that it complements work such as the services directive and the data protection directive which i am working on. therefore it is good progress. molaim an tuasal schwab as an obair a thabhairt chun críche.
i scríbhinn. – fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil á dhéanamh le cearta an tomhaltóra a neartú san ae. tacaím freisin leis na bearta atá molta chun an trádáil trasteorann a éascú agus tacaím leis na bearta i dtaca le rialacha an ae maidir le cosaint tomhaltóirí a shoiléiriú d’fhonn fáil réidh leis an éiginnteacht atá ann faoi láthair. chuirfeadh trédhearcacht agus eolas níos fearr do ghnóthais agus do thomhaltóirí go mór leis an muinín a bhíonn ag tomhaltóirí an mhargaidh, agus spreagfadh sé seo an fás eacnamaíoch. é sin ráite, áfach, táim buartha mo dhóthain faoi roinnt de na bearta agus an tionchar a bheadh acu ar ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide. cé go bhfuil na gnóthais, cinnte, i bhfabhar beart a chruthódh creat dlíthiúil níos soiléire agus a chuirfeadh leis na gléasanna cosanta atá ann do thomhaltóirí, tá cuid díobh ag déanamh imní faoin tionchar a bheidh ag roinnt de na forálacha nua ar reáchtáil laethúil na ngnóthas. is féidir le bearta dá leithéid cur go mór leis an rómhaorlathas agus leis an ualach neamhriachtanach riaracháin. agus tomhaltóirí á gcosaint againn, ní mór a bheith cinnte de nach bhfuil na comhlachtaí agus na seirbhísí a fhreastalaíonn ar na tomhaltóirí sin á gcur as gnó againn.
a uachtaráin, níl mise i mo bhall den choiste um thionsclaíocht, um thaighde agus um fhuinneamh (itre); ba chóir go mbeadh mé, ba mhaith liom a bheith, agus tá súil agam go mbeidh mé i mo bhall air. má tá aon duine ag éirí as, nó go bhfuil siad ag smaoineamh ar aon duine a chaitheamh amach, inis dom é agus gheobhaidh mé áit. the commission brought out a very good document on energy efficiency a few weeks ago. it pointed out the need for more work to be done on buildings and transport and i agree 100% on that. regarding transport, much more needs to be done in putting strictures on those who produce vehicles to come up with more fuel-efficient vehicles. that is a very important point and not enough has been done on that. i am a member of the delegation for relations with canada, and the canadians made a presentation to us yesterday about this matter. they are willing to take us out to show us how it works, and until such time as the technologies have been developed, we should keep a more open mind regarding these oil sands and shales.
mr president, we were discussing consumer rights earlier on. one right which eu consumers are entitled to is that of food security and safety. they expect food coming into the european union to be produced according to the same high standards as food produced internally. unfortunately, that cannot be guaranteed. no lesser authority than the european court of auditors said recently that ‘certain standards, mainly on animal welfare, imposed on eu farmers cannot be imposed on producers of imported meat’. that is a damning indictment, especially as it also points out that as little as 2% of food coming in can actually be tested, in marked contrast to the situation within europe where every animal is traceable from farm to fork. in view of that, it seems foolhardy to be pursuing a mercosur agreement, especially as the swedish institute for food and technology pointed out that the carbon footprint of brazilian beef can be 35 times higher than that of irish beef.
mr president, yesterday we voted on the permanent stability mechanism and we flunked it. amendment 33, which would have given the fund the ability to purchase bonds on the secondary markets, was withdrawn. the parliament, like the european council up to now, refused to take the hard decisions. yes, they are hard decisions, but these decisions will determine the future or the failure of the euro zone. our heads are in the sand, like the proverbial ostrich. we do not just have a currency crisis; we have a banking crisis and we have a sovereign debt crisis. and yet we persist in putting sticking plaster on deep wounds. my own country, ireland, is shouldering intolerable debt, all because german, french, irish, british and other banks – along with lax regulation and non-existent supervision – acted like casinos. bad debt has become citizens’ debt. i will not say sovereign debt, it is citizens’ debt. all of this happened under the noses of the ecb, with interest rates that were totally inappropriate. irish citizens are expected to deal with all of this. nobody is prepared to face reality. the debt is unsustainable. we have been trying to buy time with bailouts. what we need is major restructuring.
in writing. − i voted against this report that seeks to establish unfair competition between eu workers and migrant workers coming to europe. the ‘single permit’ directive, as amended today by parliament at first reading, will apply to non-eu nationals seeking to reside and work in a member state or who already reside legally in an eu country, with the exception of posted workers, seasonal workers, long-term residents and refugees, who will therefore not be covered by its anti-discriminatory provisions it is unacceptable that legal migrants coming to europe to work are to endure worse working conditions than eu workers doing the same job. once a migrant enters the eu and starts working, he stops being a migrant and becomes a worker. therefore, he has the right to be treated as such, like any eu worker and regardless of his country of origin. there can be no exceptions. eu legislation must apply to all workers in the eu, regardless of their country of origin.
mr president, first of all i want to thank you for issuing the statement of condemnation yesterday. i want to support the statements of members nicholson and de brún here today. they have our full support to ensure that those responsible will be brought to justice. the peace process, with the support of the european union, has been very successful. all sane people on the island of ireland have condemned this atrocious act – the murder of constable ronan kerr – ar dheis dé go raibh a anam. i want in particular to compliment his mother for the courageous statement she made last night in support of the continuation of the peace process.
mr president, in order to make sound decisions in any industry whatever, we need to be armed with as much in the way of information and statistics as possible and to ensure that regions are spending their money properly in developing a product that has such huge potential. i welcome this report. statistics are absolutely vital. however, they are useless if we cannot compare them, and this report by brian simpson goes a considerable way towards ensuring that the information which is now being collected and will be collected in the future is easily accessible and can easily be used positively for the benefit of the industry itself. i welcome the work that mr simpson has done and, as he has said, he has the unanimous support of the committee and quite a number of committee members are here now. i also share his concern about the quantity of the delegated acts the commission wants to have. i would much rather see changes to the fundamentals of this framework decided under ordinary legislative procedures. we are meps from the different member countries, we have our finger on the pulse, we know exactly what the situation is in our member states and, without in any way showing disrespect to the commission, i would say that we are the people who ultimately know what the product is and what the potential is. until 2004 we had regional development, transport and tourism all under the one heading. in 2004 those areas were divided between committees, and we now have transport and tourism in one and regional development in another. as far as transport and tourism are concerned, tourism is still very much the cinderella. it is an area of huge potential, an area that can develop into something even greater than we are talking about. our colleague over here mentioned 4% of gdp. but if you look at it, you see, for example, that europe is the number one destination in the world, accounting for 40% of global arrivals in 2008. tourism represents 9.7 million jobs every year. so what we are talking about here is a mosaic of different countries, different cultures, with huge potential. we have only dipped our toe in the water; we have only started to tap its potential and we need to drive forward from here. above all else, if we are to drive forward and develop tourism, we need the kind of report that brian simpson has produced and we need to work on it.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith díriú ar dhá phointe: foréigean in aghaidh na mban agus áit na bhfear mar oibrithe in óstáin. the figure of 25% of women having suffered violence is totally unacceptable. i think it suggests the need for an educational programme amongst young males, in particular in anger management and respect for females, so that the idea of raising your hand to a female would be absolutely taboo and not the norm, as is often presented in films, in some cultures and, sadly it seems, in some homes. the second point i want to mention is the role of men as workers in hotels. the reason i say that is that there was a friend of mine, a beautiful young girl, michaela harte, killed in mauritius on her honeymoon when she walked in on workers in the hotel who were robbing her room. if it were the other way around, and a male walked in on females, the chances of their being killed would be far less. there is a need to look at that risk and probability. the whole question of males and their access to rooms, especially female's rooms, has to be looked at.
in writing. – i wish to express support for this report and its recommendations. research shows that the situation in my own state of ireland mirrors the problem experienced across europe. in 2005 the national crime council found that one in seven women in ireland have experienced severe abusive behaviour of a physical, sexual or emotional nature from their partner. in 2009, i became the first ambassador of rape crisis north east based in the town of dundalk. this support and counselling service is one of many across the east of ireland offering vital support for victims of sexual and domestic violence, yet it has to cope with a very difficult funding environment. what is important is that the eu directs funding for research across member states to ensure we have a full and accurate picture of the scope of the problem. but there also needs to be support for ngos and member state governments to raise awareness about the impact and effects of sexual violence, be it domestic, rape or human trafficking for sexual exploitation.
madam president, the debate this evening has been characterised by the use of the word ‘solidarity’. all too often in this chamber, members speak in their own national interests, but it might be better if more of us spoke about concerns in other countries, to show solidarity. the reason i asked for the floor was that i was very struck by the numbers used by my colleague simon busuttil of 800 people arriving into malta being the equivalent of 120 000 arriving into france on one single day. the problems of malta and of lampedusa are european union problems. i talked extensively about the idea of solidarity during the lisbon treaty debate. we need to debate the concept of solidarity in this parliament because i fear that solidarity is sundered in the european union at the moment, not just on this difficult issue but on many others. it is time that we, as a parliament, grappled with it and put european union solidarity back on the map.
a uachtaráin, caithfidh sé a bheith mar aidhm ag an aontas eorpach minicíocht na ndíobhálacha marfacha agus tromchúiseacha a laghdú go mór agus feabhas a chur le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre. ní ghlacaim go bhfuil gá le fanacht go dtí 2033 chun an ceadúnas tiomána eorpach a chur i bhfeidhm. faoi láthair níl ach múnla eorpach ann don cheadúnas tiomána ach céard is ciall le sin, i ndáiríre? táimid ag iarraidh úsáideoirí bóithre a chosaint, má tá an toil pholaitiúil ann, agus táimse den tuairim láidir go bhfuil teicneolaíocht nua aimseartha ar fáil anois chun an téarma le haghaidh chur i bhfeidhm treoir 2006/126/ec a ghearradh siar. ní féidir linn fanacht níos mó – tá sé sin thar a bheith tábhachtach. caithfidh an coimisiún rud éigin cinnte a dhéanamh mar gheall air seo.
madam president, the commission’s secretary-general, catherine day, recently described the irish bank bailout as ‘tough but sustainable’. this is not a bailout but a sell-out: a sell-out, at eu insistence, to bondholders – senior, junior, secured, unsecured – every type, category and class of bondholder, while irish taxpayers shoulder intolerable debt. the cost of the bank bailout is eur 70 billion, not to mention the eur 200 billion in emergency funding from the ecb. how is a small island of 4.4 million people supposed to cope with this madness? the debt burden for every man, woman and child in ireland is roughly eur 160 000 just to bail out the banks, and that is not including the interest. a little comparison: if france – population 62 million – were faced with an equivalent banking crisis, the debt of french citizens would be eur 1 trillion. would the commission describe that as ‘tough but sustainable’? finally, catherine day was also wrong when she said that this is not a crisis of the euro. if the european commission does not recognise that and act on it, then the future of the eurozone, and not just that of ireland, is bleak.
madam president, like mrs dodds i had intended to speak about the economy, but the terrible, callous murder of a young catholic police officer in northern ireland has sadly changed that. i think it is important that this house realises the enormity of this tragedy for the island of ireland, and for the family affected by it. mr kerr had only finished his initial training in december; he was only 25 and a bomb exploded under his car. i was very touched by the comments of his mother yesterday on mothers’ day, when she urged catholics not to be deterred from joining the police service of northern ireland at a time when we are striving, as she said, for a neutral police force for the good of our country. she urged all catholics not to be deterred by this murder. she said we all need to stand up and be counted and to strive for equality. again i will quote her words in her sadness: ‘we do not want to go back into the dark days again of fear and terror. we were so proud of ronan and all that he stood for. don’t let his death be in vain’. those who murdered him have still not admitted to it. those who know the persons or others who committed this murder have a duty to come and to give evidence to the police service of northern ireland. europe has supported the peace process, and it is our duty to continue to do that.
madam president, i congratulate elisabeth jeggle for her good work in this report and for her continued work in this area over the number of years i have known her. it is a compliment to her work that there are no amendments tabled to this important report. in the short time i have, i want to draw attention to several paragraphs in it. i welcome paragraph 4 about the importance of an adequate budget for agriculture in general, and paragraph 10, about new technologies in rural areas and the need to widen the access to broadband. i think paragraph 34 is particularly important. women ought to be adequately represented in all political, economic and social bodies in the agriculture sector so that decision-making processes are informed by both male and female perspectives. that is really important, and i regret to say that the face of farm organisations is unfortunately all too male. we do need to look at that issue. lastly, the commission needs to be aware that the problem for male and female farmers at the moment is the uncertainty over the debate on cap reform. i worry that some farmers are trying to second guess the outcome of those reforms and that they may be taking on additional costs, which will be a burden to them. i would ask you to bring that message to the commission.
madam president, i welcome this timely report from elisabeth jeggle and thank her for her good cooperation. not many people realise that 42% of those engaged regularly in agriculture are women, and that three out of every ten holdings in the eu are managed by women. in order for women and families to remain in the countryside and make their contribution to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy through agriculture, there must be a range of services and facilities for normal everyday life. these services should include such things as health care and care services, education, leisure, transport and broadband. it is crucial that all services are not just market-oriented. there also needs to be proper social insurance for women working in agriculture so that their future and their pensions can be guaranteed. it is also important for women’s entrepreneurial skills to be facilitated and, across the board, for women to be involved in decision-making at local and regional level, in farm organisations and indeed in all decision-making bodies. that will have a huge impact and will help ensure women’s future role in agriculture.
madam president, i have to ask some frank questions of the european quartet – the troika plus the council. are you serious about saving the eurozone and the european project? the bank stress tests have just concluded, based on the most pessimistic scenarios in ireland. the new irish government has drawn a line under the irish banking debacle. it has, to everyone’s surprise in ireland, decided that there will be no haircuts for senior bond holders in the allied irish bank and the bank of ireland. but what is the european quid pro quo? why is the european central bank silent on essential medium-term funding for irish banks? why are president sarkozy and chancellor merkel insisting on the destruction of the irish industrial base in return for a cut in the bail-out interest rate? why are some member states blocking progress on the european financial transaction tax and the eurobonds? why is the european budget being cut? the short answer is short-term electoral calculations and doctrinaire economics. the irish economic crisis is an integral part of the european crisis. the failure of the irish economy would not only be a failure for europe, but would be a failure of europe. debt sustainability for ireland is critical for ireland and europe and the quartet must get real on this issue. what we need from the quartet now is imagination and vision in its ongoing negotiations with ireland. i want you to mark my words. ireland is a democracy, just like france, just like germany, just like finland: we govern at the will of the people. ireland’s electorate has accepted severe austerity through gritted teeth and seething anger. they need to see fair play in europe, otherwise quite soon the window of tolerance currently opened to the irish government will shut with a bang.
mr president, on 19 january, in answer to joe higgins, mr barroso declared here in this chamber that europe is trying to support ireland. with the abject capitulation of the new fine gael/labour government to the interests of the bondholders, it is clear that it is not the council or the commission that are doing the supporting, but it is the working class in ireland and in europe, which is being forced to support european banks and speculators through paying for their losses. the proposals for economic governance represent an attempt to entrench cutbacks and wage cuts. the scoreboard on austerity, and the proposals for fines of hundreds of millions of euro, are designed to ensure that, regardless of mass opposition, working people pay for the crisis. this european shock doctrine will be facilitated by a change to the treaties, on which the establishment in europe and ireland are determined to avoid a referendum. the socialist party and the left in ireland will demand a referendum on this proposal for permanent austerity.
madam president, there is much to commend the council conclusions as we look to the future – perhaps less so when we deal with the present and the past. i was interested in the comments made by catherine day, a senior commission official, in ireland last week when she said that the shine had gone off ireland. i hope that does not mean each of us individually, and i hope that, given the results of the stress tests and the very strong action of the new government, the shine will come back to ireland. i hope, too, that it comes back to our people, who are very depressed and disillusioned by a feeling that they carry a very heavy burden for the rest of the european union. i would ask those who wag their fingers in anger about incorrect behaviour by individual countries and citizens to please remember that there were others who also joined in at the party – i speak of european banks, who tried to profit from the boom that existed not just in ireland, but elsewhere. however, there is a ray of hope in the irish media this morning. i see that global finance giants are backing our economy in the wake of the stress tests, and i hope that they realise that the irish have fixed a problem for the rest of europe, and will show us much-needed solidarity on interest rates.
madam president, i do not like to be in tow or obligated to anybody and neither do the irish people – an independent race. for that reason the recent eu-imf bail-out hurt the irish people badly. however, i do not share the opinion that europe is to blame for it. it was largely due to ireland’s incorporated banks, regulator and government, not the irish people – but the irish people are now being forced to pay the price and the burden is too large. for that reason i would ask two things: one, the interest rate should be reduced, and i would like to thank commissioner rehn and president barroso for their vibes in that regard. secondly, i think bondholders will have to pay a price – if not a haircut then, at the very least, they deserve a bit of a shave. individuals do not get a guaranteed interest-free investment and neither should bondholders. if those two things were done then we might be able to make progress.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo ó bhairbre de brún agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh thar barr leis na hoibrithe i bpoblacht na seice agus sa pholainn. tá amhras orm, áfach, go mbeidh déistean agus ísle brí orthu i ndeireadh na dála, mar a chonaic mé i mo dháilcheantar féin, go háirithe i dell i luimneach agus i waterford crystal i bport láirge. the eaggf is a wonderful concept but, unfortunately, it is too inflexible. as a result of this, much of the funding returns to the european union. i would suggest that, where there is funding left over, the member state concerned should be able to make proposals to the commission on how best to utilise it on behalf of the workers. má dhéantar sin, cabhróidh sé go mór leis na hoibrithe atá as obair agus cabhróidh sé go mór le híomhá an aontais eorpaigh.
i scríbhinn. − ós rud é gur mná iad 42% dóibh siúd atá bainteach le hearnáil na talmhaíochta, is léir go bhfuil ról tábhachtach ag mná i gceantair tuaithe agus i ngnó na feirme. ní foláir aitheantas agus tacaíocht a thabhairt do mhná agus don mhéid atá á dhéanamh acu i gcúrsaí talmhaíochta agus i saol na tuaithe agus, chuige sin, tacaím leis an dtuarascáil thábhachtach seo. ní mór aitheantas mar is cóir i mbeartais talmhaíochta an ae amach anseo a thabhairt do ról na mban. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le sár-obair ghréasáin na mban ó thaobh ceantair tuaithe a spreagadh agus comhionannas agus iniamh sóisialta faoin tuath a chur chun cinn. ní mór breis tacaíochta pholaitiúla a thabhairt dóibh ar leibhéal áitiúil, náisiúnta agus eorpach. in éirinn, mar shampla, is eagraíocht thábhachtach láidir i gceantair tuaithe í bantracht na tuaithe, a chéiliúraigh 100 bliain ar an bhfód le déanaí, a bhfuil thart ar 11 000 ball aici agus atá ag tabhairt tacaíochta do mhná na tuaithe le tamall fada anuas. ní mór tacaíocht mar is ceart a thabhairt do na heagraíochtaí áitiúla sin agus iad a bheith san áireamh i mbeartais talmhaíochta an ae amach anseo.
in writing. − moves by the european parliament today to support and strengthen the contribution of women to europe’s vital agriculture sector are welcome. the ‘women in agriculture’ report was backed by a significant majority of meps and is a timely measure. not many people realise that 42 % of those working regularly in the agricultural sector are women. i welcome this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as in a limited way it takes a step in the direction of tackling the current lack of transparency in relation to export credits and in tackling the massive gap between the stated objectives of the eu and the reality of how export credits are used in the eu. the eu likes to portray itself as a force for human rights and environmental protection. the role of european ecas demonstrates the hollowness of this claim. these credits are regularly used to back projects and trade that are destructive to the environment and workers’ rights. to achieve real trade justice in this area, these agencies, which support approximately 10% of world trade, must be taken into democratic public ownership. the books must be opened up so that the workers and those affected by them can see for the first time where the money has gone and workers’ control must be exercised on the operation of these agencies so that their massive resources are used for the benefit of working people, small farmers and the environment.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór don chomhphobal idirnáisiúnta cur chuige trasteorainn a chur i bhfeidhm d’fhonn an foréigean in aghaidh na mban a chomhrac. níl aon amhras ann ach go sáraíonn an foréigean in aghaidh na mban bunchearta agus bunshaoirsí na mban, cearta i leith slándála agus dinít an duine go háirithe. ní foláir do na ballstáit an cedaw (coinbhinsiún na náisiún aontaithe um deireadh a chur le gach cineál leatroim in aghaidh ban), atá sé mar aidhm aige cearta agus saoirsí na mban a áirithiú, a chur i bhfeidhm. faoi chonradh liospóin tá sé de chumas ag an ae forálacha maidir leis an dlí cóiriúil a thabhairt isteach, agus déanann an conradh tagairt ar leith ar gháinneáil ar dhaoine agus ar an dteacht i dtír gnéasach ar leanaí agus ar mhná. vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go gcreidim go bhfuil sé in am ag an ae aghaidh cheart a thabhairt ar an tsaincheist seo agus deashampla a léiriú tríd an reachtaíocht agus an tacaíocht atá ag teastáil chun go gcuirfí deireadh leis an bhforéigean in aghaidh na mban. ní mór cur chuige ilghnéitheach a ghlacadh d’fhonn éifeacht na mbeart polaitiúil, sóisialta agus dlíthiúil atá á gcur i bhfeidhm a chinntiú.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the situation in ireland mirrors the problem experienced across europe. the national crime council in 2005 found that one in seven women in ireland experienced severe abusive behaviour of a physical, sexual or emotional nature from a partner at some times in their lives. the impact of domestic and physical and/or sexual violence should not be underestimated, as it results in severe damage to individuals’ physical and mental health giving rise to severe depression and even suicide. however parliament’s report also shows the cost to the exchequer as it is estimated that the cost to society of gender-based violence – in the form of spending on healthcare, the legal system and social services – is eur 2 million per hour in total in all eu member states. in 2009, i had the privilege in becoming the first ambassador of rape crisis north east based in dundalk. this support and counselling service is one of many across ireland east. these ngos offer vital support for victims of sexual and domestic violence, yet have to cope with a very difficult funding environment. i hope this report helps fight domestic violence in europe.
in writing. − men’s violence against women is a violation of women’s human rights which both reflects and reinforces inequalities between men and women. studies on gender-based violence estimate that 20-25% of all women in europe have experienced physical acts of violence at least once during their adult lives. violence against women knows no geographical boundaries, no age limit, no class or race or cultural distinctions, but it is still invisible and the victims are silenced. i support this report which proposes a new comprehensive policy approach against gender-based violence including: establishing a criminal-law instrument in the form of a directive against gender-based violence; training for officials likely to come into contact with cases of violence against women; requirements for member states to demonstrate due diligence and to record and investigate all forms of gender-based crimes of violence; asks for financial support to ngos working to support victims of violence. it also seeks plans to develop methodological guidelines and undertake new data collection efforts to obtain comparable statistical data on gender-based violence in order to identify the extent of the problem and to provide a basis for a change in action towards the problem.
mr president, at this particular time budgets are bound to be controversial, and especially here in the european parliament. at the same time it has to be said that everybody has an opportunity to express views here and it is good to hear all the views expressed. that is one of the great strengths of the european parliament: everybody can come, have a view, make a point and be listened to. regarding the budget itself, obviously we are in a difficult situation economically and any increase is going to be perhaps misconstrued, perhaps understandably so to a certain degree. however, the bottom line here is that there is a 2.3% increase when inflation is expected to be 2.8%. the other point that must be made is that the european union has to deal with something in line with the overall context of the 27 countries, whereas some countries, particularly my own country, are suffering very badly at present. we have just come from a meeting, thankfully, with commissioner rehn, who was very obliging with us. obviously in that situation people cannot understand any increase whatsoever, even if it is less than inflation. be that as it may, i think we have to make overall decisions, we have to give commitments to various things we have to do, we are going to see growth in terms of extra meps as a result of the lisbon treaty and, hopefully, also when croatia joins. one point i would make before i conclude is that all this brings to mind the point which president barroso has been making quite frequently: we do need to have a full and frank discussion on own resources and, perhaps, particularly project bonds, because the more finance the european union can get independently, the less controversial budgets are going to be and the less we will be asking from the member states. ultimately, i think we should be following the line of president barroso.
madam president, can i just congratulate the rapporteur and indeed her shadow, my colleague monica macovei, for their work on this report. it is an important one, because taxpayers want to know that their money is well spent. i think it is important to emphasise, as did the last speaker, the difference between irregularities and fraud. for the public, fraud is carried out with criminal intent, but many people make mistakes which could be classified as errors, or commit major or minor breaches of european union rules, and they should not all be lumped together. there is a very distinct difference. in relation to agriculture, which was mentioned by some colleagues, it is important that we have full transparency on payments in the agricultural sector. huge improvements have been made in this area. but it is important, as we move towards reforming the common agricultural policy, that we continue to make those improvements. i refer in particular to paragraph 24, which talks about the control systems. i know that, in the member state that i represent, farmers are getting new maps out and have got to resubmit. a huge amount of patience and attention is being paid to this issue, and rightly so. i will finish by saying that individuals are sometimes caught by the system, whereas major players and others who might be more guilty of an element of fraud are perhaps less likely to be caught. that is something that we need to be aware of. let us not terrorise the individual.
member of the commission. − what i can say in general is that we have to address all these problems bearing in mind that what we have here is a competence of the member states. so we have to respect that. i can understand your point that discrepancies persist but the commission will nevertheless do everything it can to facilitate member states in harmonising the situation between them. our priority is to facilitate cooperation among member states to reduce the inequalities. another thing we can do is to pursue the issue as part of the process on corporate responsibility in the field of pharmaceuticals launched by the commission. on the question raised by mr chountis, what i can say is that when the directive is in place we will provide a clear legal framework regarding rights to reimbursement for cross-border health care. we then propose to reduce the inequalities inherent in divergent implementation of european court decisions. citizens will then be sure about when and on what basis they will, or will not, be reimbursed for care received abroad. until then we have to wait, i’m afraid.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on enabling technologies, the commission adopted a communication on 30 september 2009 setting out a common strategy for this area. in that communication we highlighted that, despite excellent r & d capabilities in some key enabling technologies, we are not having the proportionate success when it comes to transforming research results into manufactured products and services. i therefore believe that it is important to define a strategy aimed at ensuring the diffusion of key enabling technologies in european industries. this approach has also been underlined in the commission's flagship initiatives, in particular the industrial policy initiative, the innovation union initiative and the digital strategy for europe initiative. following the adoption of the communication, the commission set up a high level expert group on key enabling technologies in july last year. the work was opened by three commissioners, namely the vice-president responsible for the digital agenda, nelly kroes, the commissioner responsible for research and innovation, máire geoghegan-quinn, and the undersigned, responsible for industry and entrepreneurship. the group had a one-year mandate to make recommendations on policy measures to be taken to promote the industrial realisation of key enabling technologies in europe. the group is composed of 27 representatives from member states' administrations, the research community, the european enabling technologies sector, the european investment bank and associations of small and medium-sized enterprises. in february this year, the group presented to the european commission a preliminary draft outlining the main challenges associated with the commercialisation of key enabling technologies in europe. the first interlocutory document, an internal working document, is available on the enterprise dg website. the final report of the group of experts will be submitted to the commission in july. this report will make an important contribution to the commission's discussions on the development of a common strategic framework for research and innovation support programmes. key enabling technologies are of fundamental importance to our economies, because they are the very tools that enable the emergence of future products and services and thus represent the foundation of our industrial base, of what we might call our third industrial revolution. those who can harness these technologies in europe will also be able to make our industries more competitive and will be at the forefront of the shift to a low-carbon, resource-efficient and knowledge-based economy. failure to use kets means losing european leadership in areas where we are strong and losing innovative capacity in applications that are strategic for our union. at the same time, these technologies offer enormous market potential for growth. i would like to mention a few figures which are emblematic. we estimate their global market volume at between eur 950 and eur 1100 billion per year, with an expected annual growth rate of between 5% and 46%. so emerging technologies represent a tremendous opportunity on which all industrialized economies will base their competitiveness, an inevitable tool for future growth. it would be a mistake to miss this opportunity and the commission intends to play its part. we need the support of the european parliament, all the more so after the treaty of lisbon with the increased powers entrusted to the european parliament, and i believe - and i say this as a former member of the european parliament - that this cooperation between the european parliament and the commission will also bring us good results in this sector, which is crucial for the growth and competitiveness of our european economy.
commissioner, thank you for your reply and, indeed, congratulations to the commission on its work for trying to ensure that europe remains at the forefront of what you called ‘the third industrial revolution’. the high level group dealt with a number of issues, but one of them was this ‘valley of death’, in other words this chasm that separates the creative idea from the market place, and it pointed out the fact that europe often loses its first-mover advantage. it also spoke about a number of roadblocks that are there, for example the absence of a european ip patent and the need to reduce the fragmentation of the regulatory framework already in place. so i suppose my question is, what steps, if any, has the commission taken to address any of those issues?
the commissioner paints a rather depressing picture. one of the problems that was highlighted by mr davies in the question, is the whole question of discards. now i met a fisherman recently who said that he had discovered or invented a net that would put an end to discards with regard to tuna fishing. would the commissioner consider looking at that? does she believe the technology can be implemented that will end discards, or at least curtail them?
madam president, cutting the fins off sharks is barbaric. it is inhumane; it is barbaric. dumped back into the sea, they die. it is a practice that should be banned. while the commission has referred to the 2003 regulation, it is simply not working. i appreciate that it is very difficult. how do you police it? we need to put in place a regulation banning this practice completely. what we are talking about is the wiping out – the total extinction – of a particular species. the figures speak for themselves. for example, it is currently estimated that, in 2009, the fins of 26 million to 73 million sharks entered the global trade. it is a very lucrative business indeed. we need to ban it completely. it is barbaric, it should not be countenanced and we need to ban it once and for all. we should take the lead in that regard.
in 2003, shark-fin fishing was banned. by analogy, we now have the whole situation with regard to the mackerel situation in the european union, where there is an agreement at european level and at european economic area level on a reduction in mackerel fishing. yet we see that both iceland and the faroe islands have caught 150 000 tonnes each and this is impacting directly on the sustainability of european fishing fleets. so what actions can be taken on that? in particular, can trade sanctions be taken against those two areas?
regarding higher education institutions, i want to ask the commissioner whether she is satisfied that the european institutions have both the will and the capacity to raise their game, improve their ranking on the world stage and develop their ability to cooperate with one another in order to avoid duplication in research.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the presentation of their reports and, due to the time constraints, i want to confine my remarks to the grelier report. the existing regulation on technical measures is causing major problems for small inshore vessels operating off the coast of ireland and, indeed, off the west coast of scotland. we cannot afford, as politicians, to sit and wait for the reform of the common fisheries policy when a new regulation is expected. parliament has an opportunity to act now and i urge all political groups to support the very realistic amendments that have been tabled. these small vessels which i referred to, short of 15 metres, are deprived of earning an income and, even more importantly, these vessels are forced to travel into dangerous waters. we are driving these vessels 80 kms off our coasts to catch fish outside the area, which is closed for cod recovery. my amendments refer to the use of tangle nets. these nets are used by small inshore vessels to catch shellfish and lesser spotted dogfish off the north-west coast. tangle nets are not used to catch cod, they are not used to catch whiting or haddock and will have zero impact on these stocks, so these amendments, if passed, will allow these small vessels to survive in these areas. it is not good enough to suggest that we do not want to open discussions. that is what we are here to do. in relation to boarfish, this is a new form of fishery. it has been developed primarily by fishermen from my own country. in december the council established a tac, of which ireland was allocated 67%, and i am glad to hear the commissioner says that there is scientific evidence to justify this. there are no references to boarfish under the existing regulation, so therefore i am pleased that the committee decided to accept my amendment to use the commission proposal as a vehicle to introduce the appropriate mesh size of 32 to 54, thus avoiding the need to introduce new legislation that would take too long. in conclusion, i urge all members to think about (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm cúpla focal a rá ar son mo ghrúpa maidir leis an ábhar seo agus, gan dabht ar bith, is ábhar conspóideach í an iascaireacht, ceann de na hábhair is conspóidí a thagann os comhair na parlaiminte. tá seanfhocal i mo thír féin a deireann ‘ní lia duine ná tuairim’ agus tá sé seo fíor maidir leis na hiascairí agus an iascaireacht. dá bhrí sin, tá sé deacair dúinne mar fheisirí labhairt d’aon ghuth ar an ábhar ach, ag an am gcéanna, caithimid ar ndícheall a dheanamh. regarding greenland in particular, i think the commissioner gave a fairly balanced view of the situation. there are issues obviously regarding the confidence of the european parliament vis-à-vis the council, but, as she said herself, a pragmatic solution will be found and that is obviously desirable. it is important from the point of view of the european union. it is equally important, or more important perhaps, from the point of view of greenland – a country that is almost totally dependent on the european market for its fish and, of course, almost totally dependent on fishing for its economy. one thing we can say regarding greenland is that the fish coming from there, as envisaged here in this report, will be verifiable and be of top quality – unlike many of the fish coming into the european union from the monstrous fish farms in south-east asia, the quality of which cannot be verified, and indeed which many think come from polluted waters. there is therefore a huge area for us to deal with, in particular because the commissioner herself earlier this afternoon in question time painted a somewhat grim picture of the sustainability of fish stocks and coastal communities into the future. for that reason, there is a need to develop a major policy regarding aquaculture within europe as part of the future cfp. in the meantime, i welcome the proposals here and i accept the commissioner’s words on what will happen.
in writing. – with regard to the grelier report, i voted against my group on four amendments – amendment 4, amendment 5cp, amendment 6 and amendment 3. i am disappointed that the amendments were not accepted. nevertheless, i supported the report in the end in order to ensure that the irish boarfish industry is protected, and there is legal certainty on this point, instead of waiting for full reform in 2013.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith, bhí an margadh aonair an-thábhachtach do na ballstáit sa dul chun cinn atá déanta acu ó thaobh chúrsaí eacnamaíochta de. beidh sé níos tábhachtaí amach anseo, go háirithe do thíortha cosúil leis mo thír féin, atá ag iarraidh teacht amach as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta. the single market requires two things, as i see it: one, a greater awareness amongst the public and particularly smes as regards its potential and two, we need to unlock the barriers to its progress. firstly, for the development of e-commerce, high-speed broadband is an absolute prerequisite. secondly, for energy as a single market in europe, the european super grid, which is a long-term project, is absolutely vital. thirdly, in the area of innovation, we will need the european patent, which mrs győri referred to, under enhanced cooperation, and also centres of excellence at universities that are independently assessed.
a uachtaráin, bhí an tionscail turasóireachta an-thábhachtach don eoraip agus beidh sé níos tábhachtaí amach anseo, go háirithe má táimid chun jabanna a chruthú go speisialta in áiteanna magúird agus áiteanna tuaithe. ach caithfidh sé a bheith bunaithe ar pheananna, go háirithe pleananna a léiríonn na staitisticí atá againn. so if we want to have proper planning and develop tourism, it has to be based on statistics that show trends regarding rented accommodation, one-day tourists, etc. based on that we can develop tourism, particularly to end seasonality, to encourage an ageing population to holiday more and indeed also to encourage young people to do so. any football team now has at least one statistician and bases its plans on that, and that applies also to the tourist industry. tá áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo.
mr president, i voted for the grelier report but i voted against my group on four amendments – amendment 4, amendment 5cp, amendment 6 and amendment 3. amendment 4 is an amendment by my colleague, pat the cope gallagher, to allow the use of tangle nets, which irish fishermen use inshore. otherwise we risk forcing the fishermen further out to sea in the north atlantic, which is not practical and is very unsafe. a 50 metre boat on the atlantic is very different to a 50 metre boat in the mediterranean. i voted for amendment 5cp in relation to mesh sizes. again, this causes a major problem for our own fishermen on the west coast who are working in mixed fisheries with megrim, monkfish and hake. this will not have adverse impacts on cod stocks, as there is very little low bycatch of cod at present. i also voted for amendment 6 by mr struan stevenson in relation to doing away with the scandalous business of the discarding of haddock. last, and by no means least, i supported amendment 3, which was proposed by my portuguese colleague, mrs patrão neves, which supports portuguese fishermen. i have no problem with that.
in fact, interpreters deserve our applause for the excellent work they do both in the chamber and in committees.
mr president, i voted against amendment 1, which stresses the need for zero tolerance for error. i think it is extremely important to distinguish between fraud and error. yes, there should be zero tolerance for fraud, and indeed criminal prosecution, but in many cases the error is inadvertent. while we need to uncover all errors and ensure the recovery of such monies, i cannot agree with zero tolerance for one very simple reason. this is that i have worked with many community groups, voluntary groups, leader companies and partnership companies, and seen the level of sheer and utter frustration at the myriad of rules, the revision of the rules half-way or three-quarters of the way through the programme and the different interpretation of rules at local, at regional, at national and at european level – with any infringement considered an error. therefore, while we do need to remain vigilant about fraud, we also need to simply, simplify and simplify again the rules.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i have serious concerns in relation to the eu´s economic and political approach towards the countries that are covered by the euro-mediterranean agreement. the establishment of a free trade area would have dramatic consequences for working people in the region. on the basis of the eu´s own figures, egypt is expected to lose 1.5 million jobs. the dire economic prospects for young people and the anger against corruption and excesses of the tiny dictatorial elite lie at the heart of the revolutionary movements and the aspirations of the egyptian people. a continuation of the free trade doctrine in the interest of european big business and the rich elites mean more of the same and therefore needs to be rejected. the negotiations on this deal were led by representatives of the dictatorial mubarak regime which has been ousted by the revolutionary upheaval. the top tier of the army, however, is deeply tied to the economic interests of the former regime and does not represent the legitimate demands and aspirations of the working people. trade relations must be based on the needs of the majority of the population, not the greed of tiny elites and corporations.
i scríbhinn. − is chuig na heorpa is mó a thagann turasóirí an domhain: 370 milliún turasóir idirnáisiúnta sa bhliain ag tabhairt cuairte uirthi. tugann thart ar 7 milliún turasóir ó thar lear cuairt ar éirinn gach bliain. is mór an tábhacht atá ag an earnáil turasóireachta do ghnóthais eorpacha agus do gheilleagair na mballstát. faoi láthair, tá 1.8 milliún gnóthas agus 9.7 milliún post ag brath ar an dturasóireacht eorpach. tá deiseanna fáis suntasacha san earnáil chéanna, ó thaobh na heiceathurasóireachta, na hoidhreachta, an spóirt agus na gastranóime de. chun an luach is fearr a fháil ó na deiseanna sin, ní mór go dtuigfí earnáil na tuarasóireachta i gceart. chuige seo, tacaím leis an dtuarascáil seo maidir le heolas staitisticiúil agus an turasóireacht. chabhródh eolas cruinn maidir le cúrsaí turasóireachta áitiúla, náisiúnta agus eorpacha leis an ae beartais éifeachtacha a fhorbairt agus an turasóireacht san eoraip a spreagadh. ós rud é go bhfuil earnáil na turasóireachta fíorthábhacht d’éirinn agus i gcomhthéacs shuíomh geographach na tíre, fearaim fáilte ar leith roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le cás speisialta na n-oiléan agus na réigiún seachtrach, agus maidir le plé a dhéanamh ar na cásanna speisialta sin i gcreat gníomhaíochta an ae um thurasóireacht eorpach.
in writing. − i voted for this report to support the fishing industry in ireland and europe over the longer term. sustainable fishing must be our guiding principal. i found many very strong arguments in favour of the gallagher amendments, but in the end voted with my group to maintain political cohesion within the group.
in writing. − i support this report because it gives an adequate budget framework for the important work of the eu institutions during this time of economic crisis for european citizens. i did not, however, support the group line on issues such as freezing the allowances of meps and provision of business class travel for meps. this, i feel, was appropriate in these times of crisis when ordinary workers are suffering huge pain with cutbacks.
in writing. − i supported this report which presents the parliament’s view on the expenditure required for policy implementation and administration for the financial year 2012. the report seeks to ensure that funding is increased at least in line with inflation for critical social policy expenditure at this time of rising unemployment. the report proposes a maximum budget increase of 2.3%, keeping the increase below the eu rate of inflation. this is more than half the original administrative request for an increase of 5.2%. i also supported a number of amendments to this report opposing increases in mep salaries and allowances.
in writing. − i condemn today's vote, which narrowly defeated the objection to a misleading health claim by a major manufacturer of baby milk. this is a defeat for families with young babies. i am disappointed that many conservative meps stood with big business interests on this issue. this vote opens the door to further aggressive marketing on food products which is not backed up by sound scientific evidence. dha is naturally found in breast milk, and it helps the development of children's eyes. but the synthesised dha added to formula milk is different. as the scientific evidence is still inconclusive, we cannot allow parents to be misled. babies' health is too important to be left in the hands of a multinational company's marketing department. today’s narrow vote by parliament not to reject the claim is very disappointing.
in writing. − i am voting for this resolution to reject the health claim that adding the natural fatty acid dha to baby food contributes to the normal visual development of infant for a number of reasons. first there is a difference between synthetic dha and dha in breast milk. also, authoritative studies show that there is no proven benefit regarding visual development and also some studies have shown negative effects of dha fortified formula on some childrens health. in short there is need for more research
in writing. − i strongly support this report as another step in the building of real european political parties which can act on a pan-european basis. the only way to overcome the democratic deficit whereby the citizens of europe do not feel part of the european project is to build real european politics. crucial to this are pan-european political parties.
in writing. − this report is part of a package of three reports with which the parliament has answered to the broad commission communication on the single market act (sma) containing 50 legislative and non-legislative proposals and divided in three different chapters, one focusing on citizens, one on business and one on governance. the objective of the sma, was supposed to give implementation to the monti report which had as main concern to re-launch the single market. i voted for this report but abstained on some amendments as they were part of the negotiated package on the compromise amendments. i hope this report puts the citizens at the heart of the single market and strengthens its social dimension.
in writing. − the four irish fine gael meps voted for the report on the single market act for enterprises and growth because we support the overall thrust of the resolution, but we do not support ccctb, as we have explained in previous explanations.
mr president, this debate should be about nuclear safety. it has obviously gone further than that and is about the energy mix. could i suggest that we have that debate when the commission brings forward its roadmap on energy? on the issue of safety, can i ask the commissioner whether it is appropriate to use the words ‘stress tests’, because when it comes to banking the words ‘stress tests’ have certainly failed us. what i would ask is to use the words ‘safety assessments’ or ‘risk assessments’. what follow-up will there be on those safety assessments? will you ensure that they are carried out on all nuclear plants, including waste and reprocessing facilities, because i have a particular concern about sellafield, which is close to the irish border? we need to look at the safety of plants now. regrettably, some colleagues say, we are highly reliant on nuclear power – even those who do not have plants on their territory – so safety is paramount. let us move to another stage of looking at the energy mix. let us be honest: renewables are not an easy answer either.
i scríbhinn. – tá baol núicléach suntasach i gceist d’éirinn de bharr na staisiún núicléach, idir stáisiúin ghníomhacha agus stáisiúin dhúnta, atá ar chósta thiar na breataine. sellafield isea an ceann is cáiliúla. is cúis imní intuigthe do mhuintir na héireann iad na stáisiúin sin agus tá an ceart acu eolas atá cruinn agus suas chun dáta a fháil fúthu. cé go bhfuil comhaontú déthaobhach maidir le heolas a roinnt i gcás eachtra núicléach i bhfeidhm idir éirinn agus an bhreatain, ní mór go mbeadh baint níos luaithe ag éire agus ag tíortha comharsanachta eile leis an bpróiseas slándála. ní foláir go ndéanfadh an ae mór-athbhreithniú ar an gcur chuige maidir le sábháilteacht núicléach atá i bhfeidhm aige agus ar na critéir a úsáidtear chun sábháilteacht na stáisiún a mheas. ní mór tús a chur gan mhoill le tástálacha struis cuimsitheacha, neamhspleácha agus trédhearcacha. is céim chun tosaigh iad na tástálacha struis ar áiseanna núicléacha. chun an leas is fear a bhaint astu, ní mór torthaí mionsonraithe a roinnt le tíortha comharsanachta agus leis an gcoimisún eorpach ionas go bhféadfaí beart mar is cóir a chur i gcrích agus pleananna sábháilteachta a chur i bhfeidhm, d’fhonn muintir na heorpa a chosaint.
in writing. – i am opposed to nuclear fission power on the principle of safety, while i support ongoing research into the potential of nuclear fusion as a possible safer alternative in the longer term. there is no safe way. there will always be accidents. the recent nuclear accident in japan, which we were told could never happen, demonstrates yet again that current nuclear energy production is potentially catastrophic. its by-product, radioactive waste, is already a lethal threat to human health, effectively for ever. rather than investing billions of euros in new nuclear plants, we need to invest that money in developing renewable energy sources.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am pleased to learn from the commissioner that screening the accession chapters relating to iceland, which began in november of last year, is expected to be completed shortly. of course iceland as a member of the eea has had a major advantage in that they have already adopted a significant part of the acquis. i am also pleased to note from opinion polls in iceland that 65% of the icelandic people want the negotiations to continue. i will use my position as chair of the jpc to prevail upon the icelandic people not to take up entrenched positions until such time as they know exactly what the deal is later on this year. the second meeting of the eu-icelandic joint parliamentary committee will take place in reykjavík on 26 and 27 april. it was established last year and i genuinely believe that it is an important forum for dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the icelandic parliament. i have to say that i am disappointed that the coastal states did not reach an agreement in oslo at the beginning of march. it is essential that agreement be reached. we cannot fish one million tons of mackerel between the four coastal states while we are being told that the scientific advice is for only half of that.
madam president, neighbourhood is the key word here. even in private lives, having good neighbours is a great asset to anybody. a good neighbour is a person who is friendly, does not interfere unduly with one’s affairs, but is willing to extend the hand of friendship in time of need. that is something that the european union should practise as a policy. it is easy enough when your neighbouring countries are equally friendly and stable and democratic. if they are not, then one has more of a problem. the suggestion that we should engage with civil society, particularly in these countries, is a very good one. my colleague, mr van nistelrooij, pointed out that we are spending eur 1.1 billion on border activities and that we need a more cohesive approach. i agree with that. also, the suggestion that we should have regular hearings, especially with civil society from undemocratic regimes, is a good one, so that they can hear what we have to say, and we can hear directly from them.
a uachtaráin, dhá mhí ó shin bhíomar ag caint faoi fhoréigean i gcoinne na mban san eoraip. luadh ansin go raibh suas le 25% de mhná na heorpa tar éis foréigean a fhulaingt. anois táimid ag caint faoi fhoréigean gnéasach i gcoinne na mban i gcoimhlintí san afraic thuaidh agus sa mheán oirthear. is bocht an scéal é agus ní féidir cur suas leis a thuilleadh. dá bhrí sin, tá sé tábhachtach go bpléifimis é agus go ndéanfaimis rud éigin chun é a chosc. unfortunately, not just in war but also in peace there is a very archaic attitude to women in the entire continent of africa. it is obviously exacerbated in time of war. however, i agree with the commissioner that we have to highlight these matters and in particular try and bring the people who commit these crimes to account. in that way, hopefully, at some stage, we may get a change of attitude and an elimination of this abominable practice.
mr president, could i just thank james elles for his observations in relation to the comments made by mr bloom and suggest to my ukip colleagues that, if they do want to make a point or have a disagreement with colleagues, they do not need to insult us to make that point. mr bloom described members as eccentrics, greenies and bored housewives; i would suggest that he tells us what category he falls into. now to my more substantive point about the european investment bank. ireland has benefitted, through funding for smes, but perhaps the president would comment – or others may comment – on how accessible that funding is, because announcements are made and smes are enthused by these announcements, but when they go to look for the credit line, it can be extremely difficult to access it. i do think this is an issue of practical importance to the sme sector and i would like a response on this matter.
mr president, due to a combination of vaccinations and restrictions on animal movement, the number of outbreaks of bluetongue has fallen significantly in recent years. the disease causes intense suffering and death amongst the affected animals and has a measurable negative impact on the rural economy and the farming community. i welcome measures allowing member states to use inactivated vaccination against bluetongue in areas not affected by the disease, and thank the rapporteur for his work on this issue. member states should be allowed the flexibility to be proactive and draw upon technological advances in vaccine production, thus reducing the burden on the agricultural sector posed by this disease and preventing occurrence without negating the disease-free status of the member states, as was previously the case. vaccination represents an effective veterinary measure in response to bluetongue which, when accompanied by further measures such as surveillance, means that eradication of the disease in europe is a real possibility. vaccination in controlling and eventually eradicating the disease will result in reduced economic losses and would be of benefit to european livestock.
mr president, it is worth recording the commissioner’s comment that the instance of bluetongue is on the decline: from 48 000 cases in 2008 to 120 in 2010. that said, we are still not sure what the trend will be in the future, so the development of this inactivated vaccine and discussion of the technicalities around its use are very welcome. it would be useful if the council were in the chamber so that we could address the issue of whether it is willing actually to provide the correlation tables that parliament and the commission believe to be essential – and perhaps this is something on which the council could come back to us quite swiftly. the prevention of all diseases, and of this one in particular, centres on animal husbandry, on the restriction of animal movement, on protection from vectors and on the issue discussed this morning – namely vaccination.
madam president, i voted in favour of the amendment insisting on a nuclear-free future for europe. the tragedy of fukushima underlines the huge danger that nuclear power represents for humanity and for the environment. the potential for massive catastrophe and the lack of a safe way to dispose of spent nuclear fuel means that nuclear power does not represent a safe means to develop energy production. the tragedy also underlines the fact that private profiteers cannot be trusted with the vital task of energy production and energy distribution. ultimately, the capitalist pursuit of profit, without regard for human life, human safety or the environment, is responsible for this crisis. i call for the nationalisation of the energy sector under democratic worker control and management. on that basis, we could develop a rational and sustainable plan for energy production, distribution and use, to provide cheap and safe energy for all, while protecting the environment. at the centre of that plan there must be a long-term programme of investment in renewable energy sources leading to the progressive replacement of oil, gas, coal and nuclear power stations.
madam president, can i say i abstained on the votes all of the way through on this. this was not because i am not concerned about the issue, as i really am concerned about this issue, but i realise that it has to be nuanced and there are no easy answers. i live in ireland, i represent dublin, which is on the east coast of ireland. along the west coast of britain there are five active nuclear plants; i have no objection to them. however, i do think that in the area of nuclear safety and in the interests of good neighbourliness it would be a good idea to have some form of joint british/irish –when i say irish i mean north-south irish – safety overview of the workings of those plants so that we would be informed about the risks, if there are any. furthermore, in the event of an accident, we could participate in any evacuation that there might need to be for people in wales or england, so that we could play our part as a good neighbour. within member states, where there are neighbour member state countries with facilities of this kind, there needs to be good neighbourly cooperation. that is the reason why i wished to make this explanation.
madam president, i abstained on the vote on the situation in syria, bahrain and yemen. the revolutionary movements that started in tunisia have inspired and encouraged millions of people across north africa and the middle east to engage in popular uprisings against the brutal regimes that have dictatorially ruled those countries for decades. those uprisings have once again proven the potential power of the working class and the poor to stand up and defeat their oppressors. i denounce the hypocrisy of the leaders of the eu and other western countries who today condemn the brutal repression that is used by these dictatorial leaders, but who yesterday supported, and provided a lifeline for, their regimes. it is now vital that the masses unite across ethnic and religious lines to clean out the corrupt elites and build genuine democratic societies that can provide decent jobs, decent education and end poverty. to achieve that, the working class and poor must take control over the economy and wealth that exists in the region and use it in the interests of the majority.
madam president, i abstained on the 2010 report on iceland. as a result of the financial and economic crisis, iceland went from being the fifth-richest country in the world to being a country racked by crisis, with the collapse of its banking system, where 40% of households could not pay their bills and pensioners lost their life’s savings. last year, 93% of the icelandic population, in a referendum, rejected the notion of paying more than eur 3.5 billion to the governments of britain and the netherlands. despite some modifications they are faced with essentially the same deal in the vote to be held on 9 april. they should not be bullied into accepting this deal; the deal should be rejected. it is not the responsibility of the icelandic people to pay for the crisis. workers, pensioners and poor people have not created this crisis and must not pay for it; not in iceland, not in greece, not in portugal, not in spain, not in ireland nor elsewhere. those international speculators who profited massively from the deregulation of the financial markets must pay.
in writing. − i am disappointed by the voting on this resolution. we are debating the lessons for nuclear safety in europe following the crisis in japan. however, my firm conviction is that there is no such thing as safe nuclear power and that the stress tests taking place this year are a distraction from the real issue – the transition to a europe powered by renewable energy. given the most recent studies, it is clear that it is technically possible that 95% of our energy supplies could come from renewables like wind, tidal, wave, solar and biomass by 2050. with that target in mind, and as we are now making long-term energy choices, we should be phasing out nuclear plants over the coming years across europe.
in writing. − dear president, i wish to place on the record the fact that i did not participate in the vote on the individual paragraphs of, and amendments to, the joint resolution. even though i have consistently opposed nuclear power i feel that the discussion was used by extreme opinion on both sides of the nuclear argument and this ensured that a common ground could not be found in parliament. i believe that we must ensure that all facilities are checked to allow for the maximum protection of facilities, and more importantly for the safety and security of the populations in their locations. obviously, we must ensure security of supply of power in a sustainable way and we have an opportunity to look at alternative sources of power which we can exploit whilst at the same time helping the environment. this ideological debate, however, must not take away from the immediate concern of assisting the japanese people in every way possible to recover from this disaster. this is why i abstained on the final vote.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i condemn the arrest of ai wei wei and call for his immediate release. his detention is part of the most severe police crackdown in china in decades. since 2008, china’s internal security budget has, incredibly, grown larger than its military budget. it now stands at an incredible usd 95 billion. this pays for a massive apparatus of state repression, including over 40 000 policemen whose sole job is to police the internet for dissent. this repression is being stepped up because the regime fears the spread of revolution from the middle east and north africa. the regime is right to be afraid. the revolutions there demonstrate that a risen working class and the risen poor are more powerful than even the most brutal repressive methods, the most repressive regimes. mass struggle is needed, in particular the creation of independent, democratic mass organisations of the working class. the struggle against dictatorship must be linked to the struggle for genuine socialist change in china, whereby the vast wealth and resources in china are taken into democratic public ownership and the economy is democratically planned to raise the living standards of ordinary people.
a uachtaráin, china is an enigma. on the one hand it has modernised and taken on many western practices, as we saw at the olympics, which i had the privilege of attending and indeed they were a great success. but while it has westernised in some ways, it is archaic in others, in particular in relation to fundamental rights, especially freedom of opinion. the case of ai wei wei is a perfect example. here is a world-renowned artist, arrested on 3 april for no apparent reason. nobody has heard much about him since and this, of course, is totally and utterly unacceptable. we call here today for his return to his wife, his friends and assistants. because one thing is for sure – and the chinese should take note of this – ai wei wei will be remembered and renowned long after those who were responsible for his arrest are forgotten.
mr president, i was not going to take the floor on this but because the dali lama will visit my country next thursday and will speak in my own constituency in the university of limerick, where i am sure he will have much to say on this and other issues. obviously, the behaviour of the nepalese home ministry in confiscating ballot boxes is totally reprehensible. as for what happened in kathmandu – a place renowned in song and story, and that even makes it sadder – up to 10 000 votes were not allowed to be counted. all we can hope is that we in the european union, by expressing our voice unanimously, can bring some pressure to bear, not just in nepal, but on their masters the chinese to try and be a little more understanding especially in relation to tibet and the dali lama. finally, i want to say that he will be as welcome in ireland as the queen of england and president obama, who are also coming.
deputising for the author. − mr president, firstly i want to say that i am speaking on behalf of my colleague alain cadec, who was to be the speaker here this afternoon. of the three topics we are discussing, this is by far the worst and probably the most recurring, as speakers have said. robert mugabe has been strutting the world stage for far too long now and has been behaving in a most dictatorial and brutal fashion towards his own people, and particularly towards opponents within his country. the government of national unity, which was set up in 2009 to bring about democracy, is obviously not working, due to his efforts to ensure that it does not. the intimidation, arbitrary arrests and disappearances – which is probably another way of saying summary executions – of opponents, particularly in recent months, is quite unacceptable. even ngos have not escaped: their offices have been raided and their staff have been detained, so it is quite obvious that action needs to be taken against this dictator. as mr van orden said, at least the african union is now beginning to form some class of opposition to him, and that gives us here in the european union an opportunity to side with it and to bring every possible diplomatic force that we have at our disposal to bear on this issue to ensure, firstly, that mr mugabe stops the arrests and the executions, and secondly, that the constitution is accepted for the freedom of the zimbabwean people, which will lead to free elections and the establishment of a truly democratic government in zimbabwe.
, in writing. – the current high oil prices have had a severe impact on operating costs of fishermen, even forcing some to stop work. following the adoption of a motion this week i am delighted that the parliament calls on the commission to introduce emergency measures, including raising the current ceiling for state aid from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per company for a transitional period of three years.
a uachtaráin, tagraím do na tinte a bhí againn i mo chontae dúchais – i ndún na ngall – agus in áiteanna eile in éirinn an deireadh seachtaine seo caite, nuair a bhí tinte againn a rinne scrios ar na foraoiseacha, talamh, sconsaí agus fiadhúlra. ba mhaith liom moladh ar leith a thabhairt do na seirbhísí dóiteáin a bhí amuigh ag obair gan chodladh ar feadh trí lá nó mar sin, agus do bhaill na bhfórsaí cosanta – iad siúd a bhí ag obair ar an talamh nó i héileacaptair. rinne siad a seacht ndícheall chun smacht a chur ar an dóiteán. is cúis mhisnigh domsa an fhreagairt a thug an pobal áitiúil – na daoine óga, na feirmeoirí, an lucht gnó – a tháinig amach chun cuidiú, mar aon leis na gardaí agus na fórsaí cosanta sibhialta. anois caithfimid ceachtanna a léamh as sin. caithfimid anois plean éigeandála a chur i bhfeidhm ionas nach gcaillfear bomaite amach anseo dá dtarlódh a leithéid arís. dá bhrí sin, deirim an méid seo chun buíochas a thabhairt do na daoine sin go léir.
madam president, it is a pleasure to be here this afternoon. today, my colleagues and i were speaking for the first time in the irish national assembly – the dáil – on europe day, so it is a historic day from that point of view. the topic before us is absolutely vital because forests have a huge role to play, particularly in combating climate change. we hear a lot about high-profile issues such as renewable energy etc., which are certainly important, but forests deserve far more attention because it takes a long time to grow forests and they must therefore be protected and encouraged. there is a need for research, in particular into ways of limiting forest fires. it is galling to realise that a single lit match can potentially destroy thousands of hectares of fine forest. i would also agree with the rapporteur that 1% of cap expenditure going to forestation is not enough. our parliament wants to increase the number of hectares of forest in ireland over the coming years, and an increase in funding through the cap would certainly be sensible and worthwhile.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. − madam president, the community fisheries control agency was established in 2005 to ensure better compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy by the eu member states. this agency, which is based in vigo, spain, plays an important role in strengthening fisheries control and ensuring coordination between eu member states. i welcome the recent adoption by the agency of a multiannual work programme for the period 2011-2015 in line with the eu 2020 strategy. i believe that the multiannual work programme will improve cost-effectiveness through enhanced regional cooperation and the pooling of means under joint deployment plans. i welcome the approval by the court of auditors of the granting of discharge. this viewpoint is supported by my opinion, which was adopted by the committee on fisheries. the commission will shortly publish its legislative proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy. this reform must standardise member states’ compliance and enforcement regimes, as there is no uniformity throughout the eu. in this regard, i strongly urge the commission to introduce a system of administrative sanctions. this should not be left to each individual country. if we have a common policy, then the sanctions should apply across the board. we should, in fact, have administrative sanctions for minor offences rather than the criminal system that is currently employed in my own country.
madam president, six months after the floods in pakistan the un spoke of a humanitarian crisis of epic proportions. another three months have passed, and there is still an entirely insufficient response by the eu and the wto. i voted in favour of granting pakistan emergency trade preferences for textile and other products in the eu in order for these trade preferences not simply to be a purely token measure that filled the pockets of the corrupt elites in pakistan. i call for effective control over the increased income by democratic trade unions to ensure that the money is directed towards rebuilding schools and hospitals in the areas affected by flooding. a major threat to the collective interests of all workers in pakistan has been brought to my attention by the progressive workers federation of pakistan. i oppose the disgraceful attempt and threat by the government to no longer allow trade unions to organise on a national level.
i scríbhinn. − bunaíodh an ghníomhaireacht chomhphobail um rialú ar iascach sa bhliain 2005 chun a chinntiú go mbeadh rialacha an chomhbheartais iascaigh á gcomhlíonadh ag na ballstáit. tá an-tábhachtach ag baint leis an ngníomhaireacht, atá lonnaithe i vigo na spáinne, ó thaobh rialú iascaigh agus chomhordú na mballstát de. is rud maith é, i mo thuairimse, gur ghlac an ghníomhaireacht leis an gclár oibre ilbhliantúil do na blianta 2011-2015, mar atá molta sa straitéis 2020 don eoraip. cuirfidh an clár oibre ilbhliantúil leis an gcomhoibriú réigiúnach agus leis an gcomhroinnt ar acmhainní faoi na pleananna imscartha, rud a chuirfidh feabhas ar an éifeachtúlacht chostais. fearaim fáilte roimh chinneadh na cúirte iniúchóirí an t-urscaoileadh a dheonú, agus is léir go bhfuil an coiste um iascach, a ghlac le tuairim uaimse ar an tsaincheist seo, ar an intinn chéanna.
i scríbhinn. − ó bunaíodh í, tá tacaíocht ríthábhachtach á tabhairt ag an ngníomhaireacht eorpach um shábháilteacht mhuirí don choimisiún eorpach agus do na ballstáit, go háirithe ó thaobh sábháilteachta muirí de agus maidir leis an truailliú ó longa a chosc.
i scríbhinn. − is í aidhm chomhaontacht na heagraíochta bia agus talmhaíochta (ebt), lena mbaineann an cinneadh seo, ná an iascaireacht neamhdhleathach, neamhrialaithe agus neamhthuairiscithe (iuu) a chosc, a dhíspreagadh agus a dhíothú trí bhíthin bhearta éifeachtacha stáit ar chalafoirt. go bunúsach, is éard atá i gceist le ‘bearta stáit ar chalafoirt’ ná na bearta sin a fhéadfaidh stáit chósta a chur i bhfeidhm i gcás árthaí nach bhfuil cead acu a mbrat a sheoladh agus iad i gcalafort nó atá ag lorg ceada isteach i gcalafort.
in writing. − the approval of the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (the agreement) is to be welcomed. the agreement is a vital tool in ensuring that the eu is well equipped to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing in our waters. ireland, and in particular ireland south, has a thriving fishing industry and this agreement will help to fight against iuu fishing as one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources. it is incredibly important that the eu has participated in this process from the start and has played an active and constructive role in the drafting of the agreement, as the fight against iuu fishing constitutes an essential component of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted against the proposals to discharge the commission of its obligation to report on its expenditure because the report was unclear. i did vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, as the general idea of cost efficiency in the eu is raised many times. i am in favour of cutting costs in relation to the commission and its agencies. however, this may not be at the expense of rank-and-file workers in the commission, as was suggested in paragraph 81. i do not accept that workers should be forced to work longer as a result of cuts, regardless of who their employer is. workers’ rights should be guaranteed and defended. if their function has become obsolete, they should have access to similar jobs with the same conditions. elected representatives enforcing a slashing of living standards for workers should, at the very least, accept that their own privileges undergo the same treatment. i will continue to urge that public representatives be paid an average skilled worker’s wage and to advocate the elimination of unnecessary costs, perks, benefits and other privileges.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím leis an tuarascáil seo, go háirithe leis an méid atá ann faoi thuarascáil speisialta na cúirte iniúchóirí maidir le leasú earnáil an tsiúcra. tharraing an tuarascáil sin aird ar na fadhbanna suntasacha atá le haithint in earnáil an tsiúcra ó rinneadh leasú uirthi sa bhliain 2006 agus ar na deacrachtaí atá anois ag iar-shaothraithe siúcra. gan tuarascáil na cúirte iniúchóirí ní bheadh tuairisc ar bith ann ar na deacrachtaí sin. bhí ról tábhachtach ag na gléasraí siúcra in earnáil na talmhaíochta, in éirinn go háirithe, áit ina raibh gléasraí próiseála i gcorcaigh agus i gceatharlach, agus d’fhéadfaí a rá gur chuir an leasú deireadh le hearnáil an tsiúcra in éirinn. mar atá ráite sa tuarascáil, níor cuireadh a dhóthain eolais ar fáil maidir leis an tionchar a bheadh ar na réigiúin próiseála, le tionchar na ndiúltaithe cuóta ar gheilleagair áitiúla, leis na poist a bhí le cailliúint agus le dáileadh an chúitimh. bhí easpa trédhearcachta agus eolais i gceist leis an bpróiseas leasaithe dóibh siúd a bhí ag obair san earnáil agus dó cháiníocóirí eorpacha agus ní mór anois a bheith soiléir agus macánta faoin tionchar a bhí ag an leasú ar earnáil talmhaíochta na heorpa tríd síos.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as the general idea of cost efficiency in the eu is brought up. i am in favour of cutting costs related to the european parliament. however, savings cannot be made at the expense of ordinary workers working in the european parliament; their rights should be safeguarded at all times. i support spending on the promotion of accessible artistic and cultural events which can enrich the lives of the population; this is why is supported the lux film prize, despite misgivings on the seemingly large budget spent on this particular award. savings can, and should, be made by limiting the expenses and wages of meps, for instance by linking the daily allowance to vouched-for expenses. i also supported the raising of the retirement age for meps from 60 to 63. i feel that representatives enforcing a slashing of living standards for workers should at the very least accept that their privileges undergo the same treatment. however, i do not agree that the retirement age for workers should be raised. i will continue to support workers and trade unionists in their struggle against the increase in the retirement age.
a uachtaráin, is tábhachtach an tuarascáil í seo mar téann sí go dtí croílár na hoibre atá ar siúl againn sa pharlaimint: rialacha agus dlíthe a ullmhú agus a chur i bhfeidhm. as mr cassini said, the term ‘lobbyist’ is somewhat unfortunate because it creates the impression of privilege or corruption or both, whereas in reality these are experts in their field who help to inform us of the intricacies and the nuances of the various pieces of legislation that we are proposing. i myself am at this point involved in an opinion on data protection and the number of groups that have come to me with their views amazes me. i would like, if i were compelled to have a register, to record those who came to me as well, because in that way, we could have true transparency. a register of lobbyists officially, but also a record of those who lobbied us. that would create true transparency, greater credibility and ultimately greater trust.
mr president, in my half-minute i would say two or three things: firstly, the victims of chernobyl are thankfully not forgotten. in my own country, a great lady by the name of adi roche and her organisation have given tremendous support and will do so long into the future, because the effects of chernobyl will still be felt. secondly, the role of the commission, as highlighted by the commissioner, is praiseworthy; and, thirdly, the point made by paul rübig that a new regulator should oversee the stress tests and any future power plants that are built would be very sensible.
is fianaise shoiléir iad lorg chernobyl ar an domhan agus an méid atá ag tarlú i fukushima faoi láthair ar an léirscrios a dhéanann taismí núicléacha ar phobail áitiúla. ós rud é go bhfuil líon suntasach stáisiún núicléach san eoraip, agus gur i ngiorracht do theorainneacha a bhíonn na stáisiúin seo go minic, ní mór cur chuige trasteorann a chur i bhfeidhm don tsábháilteacht núicléach, á chomhordú ar leibhéal an ae. ní foláir go mbeadh na ballstáit ag roinnt eolais maidir le ceisteanna sábháilteachta, bagairtí féideartha agus comhordú ar an gcosaint shibhialta lena gcomharsana agus le háiseanna núicléacha ar bhonn leanúnach agus prapúil. tá baol suntasach núicléach i gceist d’éirinn de bharr na ngléasraí núicléacha atá ar chósta thiar na breataine; sellafield is cáiliúla. gabhadh cúigear fear faoin acht um sceimhlitheoireacht lasmuigh de ghléasra núicléach sellafield ar an 2 bealtaine, agus níl sé ráite fós ag rialtas na héireann ar roinn rialtas na breataine an t-eolas slándála ar fad faoin eachtra leis. ní mór go mbeadh muintir na héireann cinnte de go mbíonn a rialtas ar láneolas maidir le bagairt bhéal dorais ar bith agus maidir leis an méid atá á dhéanamh chun na bagairtí slándála sin a chomhrac.
mr president, i know i am pushing an open door with you in raising this, but would say again that it really is not acceptable that question time be conducted in this way. there is no parliament in the world in which question time is not sacrosanct. i would ask you again to raise this matter with the bureau.
commissioner, would you consider an area-based response to youth employment problems? you will find that it is people with the lowest level of education, perhaps living in local authority complexes, lacking access to education and on social welfare who have the highest levels of unemployment. there are models of local development which have started to address this issue on an area-specific basis. would the commission consider doing anything in partnership with member states to try and tackle the areas with highest unemployment?
just a brief follow-up. in the communication on the cap towards 2020 it says that achieving all the objectives in the future cap ‘will require that public support to the agricultural sector and rural areas be maintained’. you mentioned this yourself, commissioner. how do you propose to ensure that this support for the cap is maintained in the new eu multiannual financial framework?
commissioner, as you know, the delivery of public goods and security of food supply comes at a very significant cost. farmers need to know that they will get a fair return for their efforts. they also need to be in a position to plan ahead. in this regard, and in terms of moving the negotiations on the cap forward, when does the commission expect to be in a position to reveal the detailed proposals of the next multi-financial framework and the allocation of the cap budget? i think it is imperative that we know that as quickly as possible because, as members, we are working somewhat in the dark, not knowing what finances are going to be available to us.
member of the commission. − i admit that, but of course this is of such importance, and this is such an urgent issue, that the leakage from last week’s meeting was discussed in the college. this is fuelling speculation. that sort of leakage has its cost, and what comes out of this deteriorating atmosphere around greece is not helping greece. it is of concern for the next meetings on the conditions for the greek restructuring programme and on the greek conditional aid rescue package. however, i am not here to discuss what should be agreed among competent members of the commission and the international monetary fund with the participation of the greek authorities. we can only wish all the best for the efforts made domestically, which are probably very painful politically and costly for the government undertaking these measures. i admit that the leakage is fuelling speculation and causing a deterioration in the conditions for a potential recovery in greece.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try to do my best to keep my answers short. the lisbon treaty provides for the setting up of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps with the objective of establishing a framework for joint contributions from young europeans to the humanitarian aid operations of the union. last year, 2010, we reviewed the existing situation of volunteering, through bilateral meetings, surveys and a dedicated conference in september 2010. as a result, on 23 september we adopted the communication setting up a phased approach for the corps. the first stocktaking phase allowed us to identify current gaps, needs and conditions for the voluntary corps to make a positive contribution to eu humanitarian assistance. this year, 2011, the main activity is to further develop the approach, including a public stakeholder consultation with results to be made available by the end of this month, may 2011. secondly, a preparatory action which allows the commission to finance pilot projects aimed at selecting, training and deploying a limited number of volunteers in view of the adoption of a legislative proposal. third, we will carry out a full impact assessment which will inform us about the potential economic and social impacts of the voluntary corps. the results of these activities will feed into a proposal for a regulation which will be tabled in 2012. the results of the public stakeholder consultation, as well as the selected pilot projects, will be presented at the dedicated conference organised in june 2011, this year in budapest under the auspices of the hungarian presidency.
mr president, given that we are under time constraints and the commissioner has answered my question quite precisely, i have no follow-up.
thank you for your reply, commissioner, which i believe. in your speeches you have mentioned nutrition on a number of occasions and in fact canned fish tick all of the boxes: they are low in value, high in protein, with no necessity for refrigerated transport or for cold storage facilities when they arrive, and, of course, they have a long shelf life. and when it comes to cooking, the fish are already cooked. i am thinking in particular of mackerel and herring. what i am saying to you is, could you use your offices to at least suggest the use of canned fish? we are the people who are funding this and i would like to have an opportunity to meet with somebody from your dg to discuss this, because i come from an area where there is an abundance of fish but there is no other type of job. we should try to help our own people and by the same token help others.
ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an gcoimisinéir. is léir go bhfuil a pholasaí ag dul sa treo ceart. ó thaobh stádas na talmhaíochta i ngeilleagar mo thíre féin, is léir go bhfuil sé an-tábhachtach ar fad. mar shampla, in 2010 ba é an measúnú d’aistriú glan ón ae chuig buiséad talmhaíochta na héireann ná eur 978.3 milliún. is léir go bhfuil feirmeoirí sásta comhoibriú leat, ó thaobh an athraithe aeráide agus nithe eile mar sin, ach caithfidh siad cúiteamh agus airgead a fháil má theastaíonn uainn an saghas comhoibrithe sin a bhaint amach. is léir go bhfuil siad sásta é sin a dhéanamh ach, ag an am céanna, ní féidir leo é a dhéanamh gan chúiteamh, gan eacnamaíocht, gan airgead.
mr president, eu citizens have a right to know the make-up of the clothes they wear and this regulation will allow them to avoid purchasing products containing non-textile parts of animal origin, whether for health, ethical or other considerations. when used in garments, for example as trimmings, such materials are currently not subject to mandatory labelling; most consumers are unaware of this and may not know the exact make-up of the textiles they buy. eu legislation providing for this already exists for footwear, and it makes sense to provide our consumers with the same level of information when they buy their clothes. allergy sufferers in particular stand to gain from this proposal, as fur is potentially hazardous to their health, and the commission must also study the possibility that potentially hazardous materials and chemicals used in textiles may lead to allergic reactions. future applications of new textile fibre names must include available scientific data on possible allergic reactions and other adverse effects on human health. it should be stressed that these are balanced proposals which exempt clothes made by self-employed tailors from such labelling requirements.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the most fundamental weakness of the proposed stress tests has now been referred to. it is the possibility of widespread sovereignty faults. surely, this is a very likely development, given the incredible level of debts that have been loaded onto economies that are simply unable to pay. for example, the irish state is on track to owe eur 750 billion by 2014, and we have a government debt that is more than eur 120 000 per worker. irrespective of a potential cut in the interest rate and our so-called bail-out, this is unsustainable and the irish state will default. i understand that german banks are exposed to greece, ireland, portugal and spain, the so-called ‘pigs’, to the tune of eur 400 billion. french banks are exposed to the tune of eur 260 billion and british banks eur 300 billion. this massive exposure explains the vicious austerity applied by the commission and the european central bank to working people in the peripheral economies. it is my understanding that the stress tests will assume that the funding needs of the banks remain stable. given the potential for a deepening of the crisis, this is unlikely to be the case. for example, eur 34 billion left the six irish domestic banks in the last three months of 2010, forcing them to rely on what is supposedly short-term funding from the ecb to the tune of eur 160 billion. on the restructuring of the banking sector, surely the most fundamental lesson that has to be drawn from the experience of the last number of years and the major crisis is that the major financial institutions and banks cannot be left in private hands. the pursuit of profit by these private institutions has played a significant role in wrecking our economies, for which working people have paid a terrible price. the major financial institutions, the major banks, must be taken into democratic public ownership. the dictatorship of the financial markets must be ended, and their massive resources should be used to benefit ordinary people through the granting of loans to small businesses, affordable mortgages to help homebuyers, and so on.
mr president, banks were once revered in ireland. now they are reviled, and there is no need to go into the reasons why. i am here to ask questions rather than give insights, and i have a number of questions. firstly, do all banks have to be stress-tested? secondly, can we be assured that the stress tests from now on will reflect the true position of banks? and thirdly, what authority does the european banking authority have to impose its authority on errant banks, banks that are over-exposed, banks behaving recklessly, etc? finally, mr gauzès referred to the need to rid ourselves of dependency on the rating agencies. how can this idyllic situation be brought about as soon as possible?
mr president, lest we forget that there are people affected by these problems, i met a young irishman on the flight to frankfurt today, on his way to australia with a one-way ticket, and he is just one of thousands who are doing this because of our economic and banking problems. would the commission accept that the damage done to europe’s credibility by the fudging of the first banking stress tests – and i say this with great regret – is almost irreparable? european union citizens are looking on in distress at what has happened in relation to banking. we have damaged confidence in the european union and in the eurozone. as you know, the irish banking sector has had its second round of stress tests and the new government has put in place a restructuring plan. the additional capital required was eur 24 billion. the impact on the irish economy now is that good enterprises are starved of capital as banks struggle to meet the various requirements. this is an impossible scenario, and i would ask the commissioner to address it.
mr president, there is a problem in the european union because our citizens are dumping on their own doorsteps. to do that in europe is one thing but to do it to the developing world and to the poor is, as the authors of this question said, reprehensible. i will listen carefully to the commission’s response about new legislation. i am always concerned that we layer legislation on top of existing laws without looking at the enforcement aspects, and i would ask the commission to address the issue of enforcement. i think in many areas we do not have sufficient numbers in member states to correctly keep control and account of the transportation issue, in this case of toxic waste. the consequences for the health and welfare of those who handle this waste in a very inappropriate way are extremely serious. this is a moral and ethical question. perhaps if our citizens were aware of this – i think they are not – they might think twice about their purchasing and disposal methods.
in writing. – europe must not fail the palestinian people yet again. now following the unexpected reconciliation agreement between fatah and hamas, which commits to establishing a technical, non-party interim government and early elections, europe must grab this opportunity to play a positive role in the region. it can do so by working with the interim government which is to be formed in the next few days; by supporting early elections; and most importantly undertaking to fully respect the outcome of elections and working with the new administration that emerges from those elections. europe cannot on the one hand work with democratic movements in libya, syria, tunisia and egypt, and refuse to work with a government democratically elected by the palestinian people. israel’s initial response to the reconciliation, withholding palestinian authority (p.a.) taxes, is illegal and potentially catastrophic for peace, putting at risk the state-building efforts of prime minister salem fayyad. the eu must step in to fully cover the loss of this income while making it clear that we will recover that money from israel by freezing all money due to israel from the eu to the same value, until it stops this further breach of international law.
mr president, i think we owe a debt of gratitude to the sunday times for exposing the ‘amendments for money’ scandal. as a result, as you know yourself, a working group has been established by the bureau to introduce binding codes of conduct for all meps. part two of cleaning up the act is what we did today by voting for this report in huge numbers. i believe that the register of lobbyists is long overdue, but i have a number of reservations. first of all, i think that it should be mandatory. however, it is a step in the right direction and it is worth noting that the lobbyists themselves, the reputable lobbyists, actually are in touch and are in favour of compulsory registration. i am disappointed, however, that the council has not signed up to the proposal. it is worth noting that the three meps who were exposed in terms of the ‘amendments for money’ scandal are all former government ministers. the registration of lobbyists is a big issue and lobbying is a big issue, and we need to push on, use this as an experiment and hopefully in the future make it compulsory and mandatory.
mr president, i voted against the motion for a resolution that deals with the negotiations for a free trade agreement with india. in my opinion, the conclusion of any such agreement negotiated by the european commission would only serve big multinational corporations, both in india and in europe. in contrast to the last speaker, in my opinion the trade negotiations are not driven by the interests of raising people out of poverty and improving people’s living standards; they are driven by those big business agendas to get more market access and increase profits. i stand with the poor farmers, trade unionists and workers of india who oppose the fta as it will mean a further undermining of living standards and working conditions for large parts of the indian working class, in particular those that work in the large informal sector. furthermore, this fta agenda and its drive to enforce intellectual property rights and data exclusivity endangers access to cheap generic medicines that are produced in india. today these generics are of vital importance to people across the world suffering from the likes of hiv and aids. because of the profiteering of the private major pharmaceutical companies, they simply cannot afford the branded equivalents.
mr president, i voted against the report on the eu’s common foreign and security policy. i am in complete disagreement with the views and ideas it expresses about europe’s current and future role in the world. in a nutshell, this report stands for a militarised and imperialist europe. it defends an aggressive raw materials strategy and asks for, and i quote, ‘a less rigid distinction between military and civilian crisis management operations’. this is disguised language for a further militarisation of foreign policy. it welcomes the trade agreement with colombia, despite the fact that hundreds of trade unionists have been killed in recent years, guilty simply of being trade unionists. this report hypocritically names social unrest as one element of a new generation of security challenges and risks. what hypocrisy! the capitalist system has created poverty and misery across the world and is incapable of dealing with the consequences. it is the right of people to defend their legitimate interests and struggle for a better future without any interference from the mighty political, economic and military powers.
a uachtaráin, bhí sé suimiúil agus sásúil ar maidin an méid feisirí a labhair ar son lady ashton agus an obair atá idir lámha aici sna seirbhísí gnóthaí eachtracha, agus freisin an méid feisirí a mhol go labhraímís le haon ghuth. má labhraímid le haon ghuth, beimid éifeachtach agus éistfear linn; mura labhraímid, ní éistfear linn agus ní bheimid éifeachtach. i was also reminded of the words of the great irish poet, william butler yeats, who said ‘peace comes dropping slow’. that was certainly the case in northern ireland, where the european union played a crucial part through its support for the international fund for ireland, and that peace was copper-fastened last weekend with successful elections. an obair a rinne an taontas eorpach i dtuaisceart éireann, is féidir an obair chéanna a dhéanamh ar stáitse an domhain ar mhaithe leis an tsíocháin agus daoine bochta má labhraímid le haon ghuth agus má dhéanann lady ashton a cuid oibre go díograiseach.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil sé tábhachtach go mbíonn tomhaltóirí ar an láneolas agus teicstílí á gceannach acu. buíochas leis an tuarascáil, beidh sé éigeantach amach anseo lipéadú soiléir a chur ar na teicstílí sin a bhfuil ábhar ainmhí ar bith iontu. cabhróidh sé seo leo siúd a bhfuil ailléirgí acu chomh maith. bheifí in ann snáithíní nua agus táirgí nuálacha a chur ar an margadh gan mhoill de bhuíochas na n-athruithe a mholtar sa tuarascáil, agus beidh rogha níos fearr ag tomhaltóirí dá bharr. cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le dhá staidéar a dhéanamh ar an bhféidearthacht go bhfuil nasc ann idir ailléirgí agus na ceimiceáin a úsaidtear i dteicstílí, agus ar indéantacht scéim i dtaobh lipéadaithe de réir ionaid tionscnaimh a chur i bhfeidhm d’fhonn a chinntiú go mbíonn lán-inrianaitheacht i gceist le táirgí teicstíle. táimse ar aon intinn leis an rapóirtéir sa mhéid is go mba chóir cothromaíocht a bhaint amach idir leibhéal ard cosanta a chur bhfeidhm do thomhaltóirí agus an gá atá ann an creat rialála do tháirgí teicstíle a shimpliú.
in writing. − i voted to reject (amendment 20, second part; amendment 69, second part), as this had been recommended by both s&d voices on the culture committee, on which i sit as a substitute member.
in writing. − i support this report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the commission on a joint transparency register. any actors seeking to influence decision-making and policy implementation at a european level are expected to join the common register, which will make both registration and access to information about lobbyists easier. those who do not register shall be refused a long-term access pass to the european parliament. this is but a first step forward towards transparent relations between european institutions and lobbyists. registration should be made mandatory and the council should also join this agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. − transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy. it should be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, what are the influences behind them and finally how resources, i.e. taxpayers’ money, are allocated. therefore rules for lobbying are ultimately a question of legitimacy. i supported this report which establishes a common register for lobbyists (transparency register) between the european parliament and commission. the scope of the register covers many activities carried out with the objective of directly or indirectly influencing the policy formulation or implementation and decision-making processes of the european institutions. all organisations, irrespective of their legal status, engaged in activities falling under the scope of the register are expected to register. this agreement with the european commission provides only for voluntary registration, even though lobbyists not included in the joint register will no longer be able to obtain a long-term access badge to the european parliament. the next step will be to extend the joint register to all the eu institutions and to convince the commission and council to make it mandatory. we need clear rules to prevent people and organisations from influencing eu decision-making in a non-transparent manner.
i scríbhinn. − is slí bheatha do na milliúin duine san ae, idir fiontraí, feirmeoirí agus 16 milliúin úinéir foraoise, í earnáil na foraoiseachta. faoi láthair, tá 2 milliún duine fostaithe ag earnáil na foraoiseachta san ae, i ngnóthais bheaga agus mheanmhéide don chuid is mó, agus gnóthaíonn an earnáil €300 billiún sa bhliain. meastar go bhfuil 16,000 duine fostaithe ag earnáil na foraoiseachta in éirinn amháin. cuireann na tionscail foraoiseachta leis an bhfás geilleagrach, cruthaíonn siad deiseanna fáis agus fostaíochta i gceantair tuaithe, agus spreagann siad an fhorbairt tuaithe trí mheán na dtionscal áitiúil agus deiseanna turasóireachta. is acmhainn luachmhar don earnáil talmhaíochta, don chomhshaol agus don bhithéagsúlacht iad na foraoisí, go háirithe ó thaobh na n-éiceachóras atá iontu agus ó thaobh thorthúlacht na hithreach agus an chosaint in aghaidh an chreimthe ithreach. tá deiseanna suntasacha forbartha i gceist le hearnáil foraoiseachta na heorpa, ó thaobh ceapaidh carbóin agus linnte co2 de. fearaim fáilte roimh an méid atá sa tuarascáil maidir le haitheantas a thabhairt do thábhacht na foraoiseachta ó thaobh na socheacnamaíochta agus an chomhshaoil de agus roimh an iarratas ar an gcoimisiún cur chuige soiléir a chur i bhfeidhm chun cabhrú leis an earnáil a lánchumas a bhaint amach.
i scríbhinn. − an tseachtain seo caite in éirinn, rinne dóiteáin foraoise – a bhí ar scála nár facthas le tamall fada roimhe sin – ollscrios ar fhearainn i ndún na ngall, sligeach agus réigiúin eile na tíre. is faoi na húdaráis áitiúla, le tacaíocht ón rialtas náisiúnta, atá sé freagracht a ghlacadh as eachtraí dá leithéid. is ceist choimhdeachta í seo. ó thaobh na ndóiteán in éirinn de a tharla le déanaí, ní mór do rialtas na héireann meastachán iomlán a dhéanamh ar an damáiste a rinneadh d’fhonn cúnamh a thabhairt dóibh siúd a buaileadh. ní foláir plean éigeandála, cosúil leis an gceann atá i bhfeidhm cheana do thimpistí bóthair agus do thuilte, a chur i bhfeidhm do dhóiteáin foraoise d’fhonn a chinntiú go dtabharfaí freagra níos fearr ar a leithéid de chás amach anseo. mar fhocal scor, ní foláir breis maoinithe a thabhairt do chomhairle chontae dhún na ngall chun na costais eisceachtúla a bheidh i gceist a íoc.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s green paper on forest protection and information in the eu. since forests are the main absorber of carbon, sustainable forest management is key to achieving the eu’s climate change goals. we need to bring protection and production together in the management of our forests in order to ensure the viability of their environmental, social and economic functions. the eu has a role to play in promoting best management practice that suits the needs of local actors and communities, and in incentivising forestation efforts compatible with local conditions and native species.
in writing. − i voted to oppose the measures in this report relating to the mercosur trade deal. the mercosur trade deal has the potential to seriously undermine european agriculture and the work of european farmers in delivering public goods and high-quality, safe food. a quota of the size demanded by mercosur would completely undermine ireland’s beef production. it is estimated that an eu/mercosur deal could reduce irish beef prices by 30% which would inflict losses of up to eur 500 million in ireland alone. the irish agri-food sector accounts for 60% of exports from irish-owned companies, valued at eur 8 billion per year, and provides up to 250 000 jobs. this deal would result in major job losses at farm and industry level across rural areas in ireland and the eu as a whole.
madam president, are we really surprised that we did not reach agreement? certainly, my view from the outside was that there were too many differences around the table, and i am not sure that starting at 7 p.m. a meeting which was doomed to fail at 7 a.m. was such a great idea, but we still have to resolve this particular problem and perhaps dividing the legislation into two parts might achieve it. the issue of cloning is a very sensitive issue, and there are animal welfare concerns which others have spoken about, but the issue of reproductive material needs to be addressed. we need clarity as to how this can be addressed within the wto rules, because farmers in europe want access to the best technologies available to them to be more productive. so, within that framework, we do have issues to resolve here in this house, and i hope that they can be resolved satisfactorily. finally, on the issue of europe’s standards versus the rest of the world, we import meat products into the european union. are we as clear about what we are importing as we are demanding about what is produced within the eu itself? this is also an issue which needs to be addressed.
mr president, it is a fact that, if every sme created one extra job, unemployment would finish in europe. that is not actually an impossible task. instead, however, many of them are shedding jobs, partly due to the recession, but also due to a preponderance of regulation and red tape. this certainly needs to be tackled urgently. i am pleased to say that our new government yesterday announced measures to help smes which were broadly welcomed by the business community today – measures relating to vat, prsi, travel tax and internships. at european level, it is essential that we tackle fraud in particular. the black market economy is thriving and needs to be tackled on a european-wide basis. we also need to encourage businesses to avail themselves of the opportunities in e-commerce and establish a european-wide patent. if we do this, we can actually end unemployment and also help the creation of many new businesses.
, in writing. – the irish government’s jobs initiative has correctly concentrated on the jobs-rich sector of tourism; while the eu’s small business act has the potential to complement this in the area of smes over the coming years. the purpose of the sba has been to reduce the administrative burden of doing business and improve access to finance for smes. commissioner rehn reported this evening that it has succeeded in reducing the cost of doing business by 22% in some areas and will continue to concentrate on this initiative. the principal message of the small business act is to ‘think small first’ – to concentrate business legislation across the eu on small and medium-sized enterprises – and the eu has committed tonight to continue the focus on this area. to this end, it is important that entrepreneurs in ireland are fully informed on how to make best use of the small business act.
mr president, just to add an irish voice to this debate: i too share the disillusionment with the extent of nationalism across this floor. i am disappointed that the chamber is half empty for what is the most important debate for europe in this session. on interest rates: let us be very clear that countries should not be charged penal interest rates. they do not help them to recover, and they do not help debt sustainability. in my last 30 seconds, could i ask the commission to address the issue of debt sustainability, for ireland and our colleagues who are in difficulty? could i also ask a question about the political capacity of the european union? on monday in our parliament in dublin, i spoke about a sundering of solidarity in the european union. i do not say that with any delight. i have said it privately to the commissioner. it is a real and serious problem. i rue the day when we might be ruled by the extreme right or the extreme left. for god’s sake, let the centre unite.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as deis labhartha a thabhairt dom ar an ábhar seo. madam president, it is incumbent on us to sell the message to third-level educational institutions, research organisations and, indeed, private sector companies concerning the opportunities that are available under the seventh framework programme (fp7) for research and development. we must at all times highlight the benefits that can accrue to small and medium-sized companies under what is the largest publicly-funded research programme in the world. support for research and innovation is vital for peripheral regions within the union if they are to stay competitive in an increasingly globalised world. from an irish perspective, the fp7 is helping to develop research that is in turn creating jobs and delivering new goods and services for our people. eur 270 million has already been drawn down by irish organisations in the agriculture, food, fisheries, health, energy, transport and ict sectors. in conclusion, i say that this is vitally important, particularly during these very difficult economic times, both in ireland and throughout the union.
madam president, a recent ge survey established that 85% of key people believe that innovation is the way to future prosperity for the european union. it is one thing to establish it, but another thing to make it a reality. that is the challenge facing us. i had the privilege of drawing up the draft opinion for the committee on culture and education on the innovation union and i emphasised a number of points. one was the need to avoid duplication. this was prompted by an answer given by the commissioner in her hearing, when she pointed out that one particular strain of salmonella was being researched by 40 different institutes – a clear case of a lack of joined-up thinking, and a waste of money. we also need productive cooperation between the various stakeholders. i saw a very good example of that at santiago de compostela university, which tracked research all the way until a new company was founded. thirdly, we need to develop the european patent.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think it is important for us to have this discussion in the light of the upcoming adoption of an ilo convention on domestic workers. i believe that we in this house should commend the ilo for its excellent work. domestic work – family caring, for example – takes place exclusively in the family home. traditionally, of course, in the eu it was women’s work, although that is changing. migrants and people from more marginalised communities are also more likely to work in a domestic situation. the value of domestic work is not included in our gdp calculations and, for that reason among others, domestic work is very often invisible and is certainly undervalued. without any doubt, this leaves domestic workers in a precarious position, and very often they have to rely on the goodwill of employers. this is simply not acceptable. as we say in the resolution, it leaves domestic workers more likely to face discrimination and, indeed, multiple forms of discrimination. the importance of this ilo convention is that it will provide legal recognition of domestic work as work. following on from that, domestic workers should be in a stronger position to exercise their rights. i think it is crucial that domestic workers have a right to core labour standards. that, of course, includes access to social security, health and safety protection and maternity protection, as well as provisions on working and rest time. because domestic work takes place largely within the family home, there can be issues of privacy involved. we need to find innovative and workable solutions to ensuring the health and safety of domestic workers and, in the overall context, to ensure that their rights are fully respected. one solution might be the use of model contracts. in the canton of geneva, for example, there is a model contract which is automatically entered into by all employers and employees: it deals, inter alia, with issues such as the minimum wage, family allowances and holidays. i believe that contracts of a similar type operate in belgium. they give greater security to domestic workers, simplify matters for employers and eliminate grey areas and ambiguities. i also want to say that i am very happy to support the amendments from the green group where they talk about the inclusion of au pairs and undeclared work, but come forward with practical suggestions to ensure we are proactive in ensuring access to the open labour market for domestic workers. finally, i want to support the author of the resolution, ms berès, when she says that the european union should lead the way on improving conditions for domestic workers. commissioner, i was interested in your words on occupational health and safety and, even though you do not foresee extending the directive, i think your comments leave some scope for flexibility in ensuring better health and safety conditions for domestic workers.
madam president, it is very clear that there is cross-party agreement on concern around antibiotic resistance. however, given what the commission has just said – that we have data from 10 member states and that it is not yet available to us – we really are talking about concerns about which we do not have detailed facts. we need that information. i would like to see a league table of member states’ usage of drugs per head of animal population, so that we can actually look at countries which adopt best practice and benchmark them against others that are not. i do not mean to point the finger, but rather to allow those member states who might be overusing antibiotics to improve their animal husbandry practices. it is also right to say that farmers do not use antibiotics willy-nilly; they use them when animals are sick. antibiotics are costly and therefore farmers do not just use them as they would give an animal a drink of water. we need to be a bit balanced in this debate. let us get the information. we look forward to the strategy in november to help us avoid this growing problem for the european union and its animal and human population.
mr president, for strategies like youth on the move to be effective and deliver measurable results there must be increased education and business cooperation. while i agree with the rapporteur that education should not only ensure employability but also encourage creativity, there is a need for a move towards integrating education and business objectives. university programmes must be brought closer to the demands of the labour market. young people should be given the opportunity to acquire, without barriers, the experience, skills, knowledge and know-how to equip themselves for future career paths and entrepreneurship. in particular it is necessary to improve opportunities for young people in vocational education and training to facilitate their mobility in the european union and allow for apprenticeships abroad, thus expanding their skill set and employability. mobility programmes and the benefits of the experience of working and studying abroad must be accessible to all young people regardless of the type of education they have chosen. youth on the move has the potential to be successful, but it must also translate into concrete measures that will deliver benefits for our young people.
mr president, the report on youth on the move contains some good ideas, like the demand that the crisis must not be used as an excuse to cut education spending. however, the report accepts the bologna process, which has increased the stranglehold of big business and furthered the process of commodification of education. the rapporteur referred to the fact that universities are underfunded, and therefore called for them to look for more funding from private sources. surely the answer to underfunding is not to invite in the private sector with all the distorting effect that has on education, or to impose fees that block access to hundreds of thousands across europe, but for state investment to provide free well-funded education at all levels. furthermore, as a result of the brutal austerity, in many countries it is virtually impossible for young people to get a decent job after finishing education. a quarter of young people in ireland are now unemployed and 1000 people emigrate every week, so for many irish families the very notion of youth on the move has a very different meaning. this unemployment crisis can only be solved on the basis of massive state investment to create decent jobs.
mr president, youth on the move contains many encouraging initiatives. these include, in particular, plans for a european student lending facility, the european youth guarantee, to ensure that young people are in either training or employment within four months of leaving school, and the recently announced youth at work plan, designed to build contacts between young people and businesses. however, i feel obliged to urge a note of caution. in 2010, eu countries achieved just one out of five benchmarks set for education, and that does not augur well for europe 2020. if youth on the move is to enjoy better success, its implementation and progress will have to be closely monitored on the ground and by members of this house in our constituencies.
a uachtaráin, is iontach an rud é go bhfuilimid ag plé an ábhair thábhachtaigh seo ar maidin agus taispeánann sé chomh dáiríre agus atáimid faoi chúrsaí cultúir agus oideachais. culture and education are intrinsically valuable in themselves. both have a huge part to play in creating a united europe and in the development of our economies as we move forward. the initiatives we are discussing here this morning would facilitate that. youth on the move is a wonderful initiative. many have benefited from it already and will do so into the future, but one thing is vital and that is that there is mutual recognition in all member states of qualifications and diplomas. this would facilitate greater movement, but also raise the standard in each of the institutions. i also have to say – mea culpa – that i am a late convert to early childhood education. like many, i thought it was basically a babysitting service, but now i know that it is the best investment and it gives the best return for investment in education at any level. certainly it reflects an old irish saying ‘well begun is half done’, and it can be done at early childhood level. i also want to emphasise the importance of intellectual property rights (ipr), in particular for actors. many of them are living on the breadline and they deserve to benefit from their genius and this certainly can be done by protecting the ipr online and offline environments. i also want to put on my sporting hat and say that sport is a very important part of culture and education as well. i have called for an indigenous festival of sport in europe. if we do that, then we can contribute greatly to sport as part of our culture. my last point is that i visited mannheim last year. there, under the one roof, was a music school which involved production, performance, education, the creation of instruments, etc. this is something that could be emulated in other places.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo. fishing – like farming – is a very precarious occupation. it is open to the vagaries of the weather and subject to the quota situation and, of course, the vagaries of stocks and supplies. now, added to this, we have the sudden increase in oil prices. ultimately, the solution will have to come from within the european union, with it becoming more self-sufficient in terms of more general energy supplies, obviously including renewable energies. however, i also think that we need to look at exploring areas within europe that have not been explored before because it was not economically viable to do so. now that is changing. i think if we could increase the supply within europe, that would automatically bring down world prices and also, of course, make us less dependent on non-democratic regimes for our supply.
madam president, fine gael members have asked me to speak on behalf of all four of us in the epp on this issue. we strongly support the main thrust of any provision such as this to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). we know the importance of smes to the irish economy and to the european economy. however, we do not see the case for including reference to the ccctb in this report. it appears to me that we buy into the propaganda of whatever the flavour of the day happens to be. currently in germany, for example, they say they are having second thoughts about this whole ccctb. so let us assist smes, but let us not insert particular propaganda into provisions of this kind. there is a case for and against ccctb. let us not put ideology in the place of assistance. we should give every possible assistance to smes, but it is not necessary constantly to introduce these terms. we voted against ccctb, but we did not vote against the entire report because we did not want to retard the sort of support that is needed for smes, and i am glad of the opportunity to put that on record.
madam president, i am glad you said that, i thought you were going to ask me whether i was speaking in lithuanian at the beginning! ccctb stands for common consolidated corporation tax base.
madam president, this is not a question of what is liked or not liked in ireland. we are members of the european parliament, and we will put our views forward. we will not be told what to do by any representatives of any other member state. we are not obliged in this country to do what is liked in other member states. every member state sends its parliamentarians here for them to put their views forward. our views are that the case for the ccctb, which is currently being denigrated in berlin, is the sort of propaganda that came off the top of somebody’s head. the case for it has not been proven. there is a case for and against this, and we should not be bludgeoned into this by any flavour-of-the-day political correctness.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús aontaím leis an méid a dúirt mo cheannaire gay mitchell maidir leis an ccctb agus vótálas mar an gcéanna. ach ba mhaith liom díriú ar phointe eile. the point i want to mention is that it was notable that it took an oral amendment to raise the issue of counterfeiting with regard to this individual proposal. that is unfortunate, because counterfeited goods are doing huge damage to businesses right across europe and this has not been highlighted or tackled enough. many of these goods come from third countries and are facilitated by the governments of those countries, which give safe haven to goods coming to europe. we need to name and shame and take action against those countries because they are having a terrible effect on legitimate businesses within europe. it is time that we said: no more!
in writing. − youth on the move is a fantastic initiative, and i strongly support the group in giving it my full support.
i scríbhinn. − is tionscnamh atá lárnach don straitéis eoraip 2020 é an clár an óige ag bogadh. is iad aidhmeanna an chláir an óige ag bogadh ná an t-ardoideachas a spreagadh san aontas, caighdeán an oideachais agus na hoiliúna a fheabhsú, agus soghluaiseacht mac léinn a chur chun cinn trí éifeachtacht na gclár eorpach atá ann cheana féin a fheabhsú.
in writing. − the youth on the move (yom) programme represents an opportunity to unleash the potential of young people and enable them to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu. the yom initiative supports lifelong learning and the ‘new skills for new jobs’ initiative of the european commission. yom looks to improve higher level education within europe and to improve student and worker mobility through existing european programmes. part of the ‘eu 2020 strategy’ states that ‘by 2020 all young people in europe must have the possibility to spend a part of their educational pathway in other member states’. the current economic crisis has badly affected young people, and youth unemployment rates in the eu are twice the average for adults. this is one of the most difficult challenges facing europe and it is vital that member states do not respond by cutting investment in education. we need to ensure that our young people have opportunities to learn and to move abroad to continue their learning if they wish, as investing in education today will better equip the eu to face challenges in the future.
in writing. − this is a very pertinent issue, and i strongly support the group line in focusing on early years learning.
in writing. − access to early years learning is of vital importance to young children in terms of their receptiveness and willingness to learn, especially since important skills such as the ability to speak and develop social skills are formed at a young age. as well as this, there is a clear link between a poor and disadvantaged background and low educational achievement. therefore, we should ensure that the targets set at the barcelona european council of providing childcare to at least 90% of children between the age of three and the mandatory school age and at least 33% of children under the age of three are met. addressing educational disadvantage by providing high quality early childhood education and targeted support, and by promoting inclusive education, are absolutely necessary to create a truly inclusive society.
in writing. − while it is not a good idea to subsidise the fossil-fuel industry, fishermen across the eu are suffering due to the economic downturn and, unlike other modes of transport, they do not have any real alternative to fossil fuels.
i scríbhinn. − is í an earnáil iascaireachta ceann de na hearnálacha is mó atá buailte ag méaduithe i bpraghas ola, toisc gur cuid shuntasach de chostas oibriúcháin an iascaire é an breosla. meastar gur 30-50% den chostas oibriúcháin atá i gceist. tacaím go hiomlán le bearta ar bith a d’fhéadfaí a chur i bhfeidhm chun cabhrú le hiascairí sa mhéid seo, go háirithe leo siúd atá i mbun na hiascaireachta ar scála beag ar chóstaí agus ar oileáin.
in writing. − the small business act has been one of the most proactive acts of the past three years, and it is important that the eu continues to focus on smes.
i scríbhinn. − tá 23 mhilliún gnóthas beag agus meánmhéide san aontas eorpach, agus breis is 100 milliún duine fostaithe acu. is beartas tábhachtach é an tacht um ghnólachtaí beaga, agus tá sé mar aidhm aige rochtain ar mhaoiniú agus ar an margadh a shimpliú agus cúrsaí rialacháin a fheabhsú. is cuid an-tábhachtach den acht é an rómhaorlathas a chuireann isteach ar ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide in éirinn agus san ae a laghdú.
i scríbhinn. − ní foláir dúinn gríosú ar institiúidí tríú leibhéal, eagraíochtaí taighde agus comhlachtaí san earnáil phríobháideach na deiseanna atá ar fáil faoi sheachtú clár réime um thaighde agus fhorbairt theicniúil an ae (fp7) a thapú. is é fp7 an clár taighde is mó ar domhan atá maoinithe go poiblí agus ní mór dúinn i gcónaí aird a tharraingt ar na buntáistí atá ag baint leis do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide. ó thaobh na héireann de, tá an clár fp7 seo ag cabhrú le taighde a fhorbairt, taighde atá ag cruthú post agus ag cur seirbhísí agus earraí atá riachtanach agus a bhfuil éileamh orthu ar fáil. tá eur 270 milliún ón gclár seo úsáidte ag eagraíochtaí éireannacha go dtí seo, sna hearnálacha talmhaíochta, bia, iascaireachta, sláinte, fuinnimh, iompair agus tfc. tá sé seo ríthábhachtach d’éirinn agus don eoraip araon, go háirithe sna laethanta eacnamaíocha deacra atá ann faoi láthair.
in writing. − more investment in research and innovation is essential to guarantee a sustainable and competitive future for our economies. as a share of gdp, the eu invests less than the us and japan in research and development, and venture capital investment is also lacking. we need to be able to hold on to our best researchers and innovators. reaching our target of investing 3% of our gdp on r&d by 2020 could mean a return of 3.7 million jobs and almost eur 800 billion. given its importance for improving quality of life and wellbeing, there is a role for both public and private initiative in innovation.
in writing. − i supported this resolution on the ilo convention on decent work for domestic workers. this convention aims to provide legal recognition for domestic work as work, to extend rights to all domestic workers and to prevent violations and abuses. the european parliament resolution further calls on the eu countries which are members of the ilo to adopt these instruments at the ilo conference in june 2011 and calls on the eu member states to ratify and implement the convention and recommendation quickly. in some countries much domestic work takes place in the informal economy, under precarious employment conditions and/or as undeclared work. in industrialised countries domestic work accounts for between 5 and 9% of all employment, with the vast majority of the people employed in that sector being women. indeed, the trend towards an increase in the proportion of non-standard or atypical contracts has a strong gender and generational dimension. the adoption, ratification and implementation of the ilo convention can have an impact by reducing the numbers of working poor and improve the position of the large number of women on the labour market.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the proposed international labour organisation convention on domestic workers. a significant part of domestic work is undeclared, precarious and underpaid, and domestic workers, mostly women, are vulnerable to abuse, especially when working abroad. the adoption of this ilo convention can help reduce the numbers of working poor, improve working conditions and facilitate the social inclusion of some of the most vulnerable workers. we need to apply core labour standards to domestic work and ensure that those performing it are entitled to social security and protection against abusive practices.
i scríbhinn. − is é príomhaidhm na bhfeirmeoirí ná sláinte agus táirgiúlacht a mbeostoic a áirithiú, agus is trí nósanna dea-chleachtais talmhaíochta a chur i bhfeidhm a dhéanann siad é sin. vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin seo toisc go bhfuil iarratas ann go ndéanfaí tuilleadh taighde ar ábhair fhrithmhiocróbacha agus ar roghanna eile, agus cabhróidh sé sin le feirmeoirí an phríomhaidhm thuasluaite a bhaint amach. ní mór clár oibre a chruthú d’fhonn taighde, eolas agus nósanna dea-chleachtais a roinnt. tacaím leis an iarratas atá ann breis taighde a dhéanamh ar leas ainmhithe agus ar chleachtais talmhaíochta, cosúil le bainistíocht tréada a fheabhsú, galair a chosc go luath agus cineálacha láidre ainmhithe a phórú. ní foláir a chinntiú, áfach, nach gcuirtear leis an ualach airgeadais agus riaracháin atá ar fheirmeoirí de bharr méadú ar bith ar fhaireachán agus mhonatóireacht ar an bhfrithsheasmhacht in aghaidh ábhair fhrithmhiocróbaigh (amr) d’ainmhithe táirgiúla agus do mheas-ainmhithe.
in writing. − antibiotic resistance is a serious public health issue. antimicrobial administration to both humans and livestock entails the risk of resistance when used incorrectly and at inadequate doses. antimicrobial resistance can be transmitted from humans to animals and vice versa. hospital patients and farmers are at particular risk of exposure to resistant bacteria. there is a need for better coordination of human and veterinarian research on resistance, as well as further research on new antibiotics, alternative treatments and animal disease prevention and control practices.
in writing. − the cultural dimensions of eu external actions should not be overstated, and it is important that commissioner ashton continues to build this into her work with the eeas.
in writing. − cultural and creative industries are not only a source of wealth and employment but also contribute to europe’s social and cultural fabric. artistic trades are part of our heritage and this knowledge needs to be passed on. we should foster multidisciplinary education and allow for more exchanges between higher education institutions in this sector. the commission needs to ensure legal security in information and communication technologies so as to protect consumers and innovative creators. it should also help local and regional authorities to develop networks to cooperate in the field of cultural tourism. ireland, in particular ireland south, has a rich cultural and creative history. we need to help to ensure that these cultural and artistic trades are encouraged and made available to a wider audience.
author. − mr president, in the brutal war of the sri lanka government against the tamil minority, at least 40 000 tamils were killed within the space of a few weeks and hundreds of thousands were detained in open air prison camps. the un report at long last publicly acknowledges the crimes that were committed against the tamil people. unfortunately, there should be no illusions that the report will change the conditions of tamils in sri lanka. the day after its publication, it was reported that the un secretary-general would only launch an international investigation if the sri lankan government agrees or an international forum such as the un foreign security council calls for an inquiry. given the nature of the sri lankan government, it is obvious that it will not allow any international investigation. it highlights once again the need to campaign for a genuinely independent inquiry into the war crimes and for the rajapaksa regime to be held responsible. on 18 may there will be protests around the world organised by many groups, including the tamil solidarity campaign, to mark the second anniversary of this bloody war. a united struggle of sinhalese and tamil people is still needed to defeat this regime and fight for the right of self-determination for the tamil-speaking people.
mr president, the situation in azerbaijan is very disappointing. here is a country that has not really moved forward in terms of political rights since the break-up of the soviet union. there are just too many examples of lack of freedom – freedom of speech and freedom of the press, which are fundamental to any properly functioning democracy – as well as evidence of the torture of prisoners, court cases where illegally acquired evidence is always admitted, and so on. because we have a close relationship with this country, we certainly have to engage in dialogue, but my position is closer to mr watson’s thinking: that we need to take a tough hand as well, because if you go ‘softly, softly’ on a continuous basis, you will get nowhere. so i would hope, yes, for dialogue and, yes, for engagement, but we have to up the ante in terms of making demands for freedom: freedom of expression, freedom of speech and, above all, freedom of the press.
a uachtaráin, ní minic a bhímid ar aon ghuth maidir le hábhar sa seomra seo agus inniu bhí sé soiléir go raibh an coimisiún agus feisirí éagsúla na parlaiminte ar aon ghuth maidir leis an ábhar seo agus go háirithe maidir leis an tslí inar chóir dúinn dul ar aghaidh. tá moladh mór tuillte ag an rapóirtéir an tuasal audy. mar a dúirt an coimisinéir, ‘he brought forward a rich and comprehensive report’. he brought forward a rich and comprehensive report and i am delighted that the emphasis has been on a few simple things. the first one is simple itself: simplification. the need for simplification is absolutely vital. i was pleased to hear the commissioner saying that we are moving to a user-friendly financial regulation. we have got to simplify, trust the researchers and ensure that we have the very best researchers. if we have that, then we will get results. finally, we have failed with the lisbon strategy. this situation cannot be repeated. it is through research, demonstration and delivery that we can achieve the competitiveness that europe so badly needs.
madam president, i believe that this report will have broad agreement across all groups in parliament. the key element of this report is that the union must stay at the forefront in the area of research, innovation and science. this is important because without research we cannot become the innovators of tomorrow. we need research if we are to create jobs, and we need research, of course, to maintain employment in the eu and to remain competitive against the emerging economies. we also need the public sector and, indeed, the private sector, which i believe is the engine of growth in the economy, to work together in a spirit of partnership. efforts to encourage greater participation by smes must also be encouraged at the highest level and we must ensure that bureaucracy is kept to the minimum. the eu heads of state and government endorsed the ‘innovation union’ flagship initiative when they met on 4 february, but endorsement is not sufficient. now we need action, and i know full well that commissioner geoghegan-quinn is a commissioner of action and will follow through. research and innovation are the key tools. they are the tools at our disposal to help europe through the economic crisis that we currently face.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the negotiations for the eu-canada trade agreement have been driven by major european and canadian multinationals who want market access to vital public services so that they can profit at the expense of workers and consumers. this agreement would be a charter for privatisation, particularly in terms of water, telecommunications and electricity. the investment chapter would, outrageously, give corporations the right to sue governments when social or environmental policies cut across their profiteering. canada’s tar sands have become a playground for big oil companies like bp, total and shell. these oil deposits produce more than three times the carbon emissions of conventional oil and their exploitation is also extremely damaging to the local environment and a threat to the first nations communities who live in the region. this trade agreement, i understand, could potentially cut across moves to stop this oil being imported into europe. there is an urgent need now for united action by the european and canadian trade union movement, with environmental and indigenous activists, to fight together and resist this proposed agreement.
madam president, unlike the last discussion which was virtually unanimous in its approach, this is the exact opposite. many people are very concerned about this proposed free trade agreement. now free trade agreements, bilateral agreements, are the norm at this point in time and i think we have much more in common with canada than any differences. they are a democracy. they respect human rights. they speak mainly english and french, european languages, and they are open to take in many people even from my own country who cannot find jobs in ireland. there are issues, largely concerning seals and tar sands. obviously they are important. but at the end of the day i think that some of the points made here would be refuted by the canadians – because i am a member of the eu-canadian delegation and these matters have been discussed and they would have a different perspective – and that is why it is important that we continue to negotiate with them on these issues. but the bottom line is – and nobody referred to it other than the commissioner – that there is a eur 20 billion benefit to both economies here if we can work out a free trade agreement. it is worth trying. go raibh maith agat a uachtaráin.
madam president, returning to sport, fifa has been mentioned and i would like to mention it as well, in particular the lack of proper governance and the lack of transparency at the higher levels of the organisation. it is extraordinary that a 75-year-old man, sepp blatter, is going to be returned to power as president of one of the world’s leading sports organisations, having been in power now since 1998, especially when you consider that the vast majority of the players – probably 99% of them – are under 30 years of age. there must be not just one generation gap, but several generation gaps between him and the players. secondly, it was not surprising last year that england got so little support for the awarding of the world cup venue, despite its great infrastructure. qatar was awarded it and subsequently we saw people suspended for trying to sell their votes. i wonder whether this is the tip of the iceberg. there is also the matter of fifa’s failure to introduce goal line technology when other sports have done so. it is quite clear that a real reform is needed in the interests of the sport itself and fifa.
madam president, i wish to express my deep concern regarding the medics who have been arrested in bahrain. many of these medics have been accused of trying to overthrow the monarchy and face trial with military prosecutors and possible death sentences. yet these doctors and nurses had simply treated injured protestors who were brought to their hospitals. amnesty international and médecins sans frontières have also expressed extreme concern over the safety of those involved and indeed the motivation behind their arrests. i fully support the irish nurses and midwives organisation and the international council of nurses, and indeed a number of irish doctors, who are adding their voices in condemnation of these awful events. in the last few days i have received information from a number of sources which points to torture and inhumane treatment: some medics have been severely beaten and have been denied access to their families and legal advisers. this kind of action is totally unacceptable. i am calling publicly on our high representative, catherine ashton. i have already written to her to ask her to make every effort to intervene on behalf of those medics who simply did what medical personnel do – try to save lives.
madam president, the new austerity package for greece, which includes eur 28 billion of cuts and taxes and the privatisation of an incredible eur 50 billion worth of state assets, confirms again the role of the eu and the imf as enforcers for anti-worker austerity policies. young people have been on the receiving end of their vicious attacks. they are now fighting back with hundreds of thousands occupying squares across europe, bravely facing down brutal repression. they have correctly raised the call for true democracy. in my opinion that can only be truly achieved by breaking the dictatorship of the markets and building a democratic socialist society where people’s needs come before profits. 15 june promises to be an important day of struggle across europe. a general strike will take place in greece and a major demonstration is planned in barcelona. big protests should be organised right across europe against austerity on that day. to defeat the onslaught against workers and young people in europe the power of the organised working class must be mobilised. a one-day general strike across europe would send a very powerful message of opposition to the european establishment.
mr president, i shall be very brief. first of all i think that this is an important proposal. this impact assessment is important to us for two reasons. one is to ensure that we are passing regulation that is necessary and effective, but also to stop blaming something called brussels for everything that goes wrong. national governments and parliaments take responsibility when everything goes right, but when it is wrong they blame brussels. i think these impact assessments should show just who is responsible and where the blame lies, because it is far too convenient to do that. furthermore, when you look back at what happened before we had the european union, the cost of that was absolutely devastating.
rapporteur. – mr president, the dci, the european union’s development cooperation instrument, is a powerful tool. covering the period between 2007 and 2013, the eu has at its disposal a budget of almost eur 17 billion to combat poverty, to help achieve the millennium development goals and to promote democratic governance in developing countries. parliament has closely followed the functioning and impact of the instrument to ensure that the money is spent in accordance with these objectives. at the end of this year the commission is going to present its proposals for the next generation of financing instruments for external action, to cover the post-2013 multiannual financial framework. therefore the committee on development has taken the initiative to analyse the lessons learnt with the dci and to define our expectations for the future instrument. the committee on development was unanimous in supporting the following key principles. we need a financing instrument which is exclusively targeted at the objectives of poverty eradication as defined in the lisbon treaty and which only covers developing countries. the new instrument must primarily fund measures which fulfil the criteria for oda (official development assistance) as defined by the oecd development assistance committee. the oda quota must be even stricter than in the current dci. let me be clear that we do not question the importance of non-oda cooperation with developing countries, in particular the emerging markets and strategic middle-income countries, but this form of cooperation should be channelled through separate instruments to enhance transparency and protect the specific nature of development cooperation. funding to improve people’s access to basic health and education must be ring-fenced by including a clear benchmark. at least 20% of funding under the geographical programmes should go into these life-saving sectors of basic health and basic education. the future instrument must ensure better integration of environmental and climate change issues in developing cooperation. assisting developing countries in setting up fair and effective tax systems is another issue to be strengthened. in particular for the middle-income countries, the mobilisation of domestic revenue is crucial for reducing poverty and aid dependency. the new instrument must be sufficiently funded. the eu development budget in the next financial framework should increase in real terms and thus contribute to reaching the collective target of spending 0.7% of gni on oda. the scarce development resources must be used in the most effective and efficient manner. closer coordination between the commission and member states is needed and parliament therefore supports the development of joint strategy papers. the commission itself has said that this could bring about savings of greater impact, of approximately eur 6 billion per annum. think of what that could do in the developing world. finally, a word on procedure. when the commission adopts strategic programme decisions on the new instrument, parliament must have a say on an equal footing with the council. this is the requirement of article 290 of the lisbon treaty, which must be fully respected. the resolution we are going to vote on this week will provide the guiding line for upcoming negotiations on the next-generation development instrument. i hope that this house will give broad support to the proposals from the committee on development which have been carried out in quiet disquisition but based on our experience of the negotiations we went into – and i remind the house that we merged 14 regulations into one in the dci. we want to make sure that the dci works and that its successor will work in achieving these objectives.
mr president, i would like to thank mr dalli for his measured comments at the start of the debate. there have been some less measured comments in the chamber because of the impact on human lives, and indeed the add-on impact on producers and consumer confidence. this is a most serious food crisis, and mr dalli has acknowledged that. we know it is regionalised in a certain part of the european union but it is not a german-only problem, it is an eu problem. the system exists to find the cause and deal with the consequences but i am afraid that not all parts of the system have been adequately put in place, and i have some questions in relation to timing. i understand that the rapid alert was given on 22 may 2011: i am concerned that the european experts went into germany only on sunday, 5 june. why such an incredible time lapse? i think that this needs to be looked at. we have, under article 55 of regulation 178/2002, the possibility of creating a crisis unit. everyone who spoke said this is a crisis, and mr dalli acknowledges it is a crisis. it is one which is growing rather than declining, and i would suggest it is now time for the eu to invoke that regulation and put such a crisis unit in place. the thing that has been most distressing has been the virtual ‘naming and shaming’ of vegetables and then declaring them not guilty. this has shattered consumer confidence not just in fresh fruit and vegetables but in our system of food safety and control. commission dalli, i know that you are nodding in agreement, and i welcome that, but i do believe that now is the time to set up the crisis unit, and i would like you to comment on that in your closing remarks.
mr president, the general trend of this proposal is positive because we are in an era where we have to tackle climate change, etc. in every possible area; all methods which lead to pollution have to be dealt with. certainly the focus on the heavy goods vehicles makes sense regarding the use of tolls, etc. the one point which we need to expand on in particular is that we should be able to develop technology that produces engines that require less and less fuel, in other words that travel more and more miles for fewer miles to the gallon. certainly that is one area where much research needs to be done; many efficiencies could be made, not just for heavy goods vehicles, but also for all other vehicles. that is something which is not being mentioned and promoted and researched enough.
in writing. − i voted for sweden’s nomination of h.g. wessberg to join the european court of auditors and replace lars heikensten. when the budgetary control committee interviewed mr wessberg on 24 may 2011, meps praised his past performance in both the private and public sectors. once appointed, h.g. wessberg will serve until the end of sweden’s mandate, that is until march 2012, and could then be re-elected for another mandate of six years. i wish him all the best in his new role.
in writing. − i have spoken on this issue before and i am voting for this report because i believe eu citizens have the right to know the make-up of the clothes they buy. this regulation will allow consumers to avoid buying products containing non-textile parts of animal origin, whether for health, ethical or other considerations. under this regulation, for example, the trimmings on collars will be labelled clearly and separately from the rest of the garment, allowing consumers to make an informed choice about the clothes they buy. allergy sufferers in particular stand to gain from this proposal, as fur is potentially hazardous to their health and without proper labelling they may buy a product containing these textiles without realising it.
in writing. − the commission’s action plan on global navigation satellite systems shows there is huge demand in a market projected to be worth eur 230 billion by 2025. however, europe is failing to compete globally in this field and our current market share of 25% is below what is expected. we must ensure we take the necessary steps to ensure this industry achieves its full potential. the european geostationary navigation overlay service (egnos) is ten times more accurate than gps and it is predicted that accuracy to 45 centimetres can be achieved in the near future. this system has obvious uses in the fields of air and sea transport and can also be used in road transport. however, we must be mindful of encroaching too much on european citizens as there are obvious personal privacy issues with such technology. overall i welcome engos and gnss as they can make an important contribution to safety and environmental objectives and i believe adequate investment in the related research and development will be essential. but the funding gap must be closed in order to reap the benefits of these projects.
i scríbhinn. − is é an líonra bóithre a úsáidtear le formhór na n-earraí éireannacha a dhíoltar ar mhargadh an ae a iompar agus, dá bhrí sin, vótáil mé i gcoinne na mbeart a moladh sa tuarascáil seo, toisc go gcuirfidís costas ró-throm ar iompróirí, ar onnmhaireoirí agus ar tháirgeoirí éireannacha. tá táillí i gceist le treoir an eurovignette cheana féin, ach níl iallach ar na ballstáit na táillí seo a ghearradh. tá an eurovignette i bhfeidhm faoi láthair ar 15 000 km de mhótarbhealaí eorpacha, leath de mhótarbhealaí an ae a bhfuil dola orthu san áireamh. cé go bhfuilim i bhfabhar aghaidh a thabhairt ar thruailliú aeir agus fuaime agus daoine a spreagadh chun feithiclí níos glaine a úsáid, dá leathnófaí an treoir seo agus dolaí don truailliú fuaime agus aeir a chur san áireamh, bheadh iompróirí éireannacha a thógann onnmhairí éireannacha chun na heorpa thíos go mór leis. déantar onnmhairiú idirnáisiúnta ar mhéid mór earraí éireannacha agus d’fhéadfadh na costais bhreise a mholtar sa tuarascáil dochar as cuimse a dhéanamh do chuideachtaí onnmhairithe agus iompair na héireann, agus d’fhéadfadh gur bhuille marfach a bheadh ann do na gnóthais bheaga sin nach bhfuil ach corrlach brabúis beag á dhéanamh acu faoi láthair.
in writing. − the reality is that this proposal will have a disproportionate impact upon the peripheral member states in the european union, such as ireland, as centrally located member states have the option of switching to rail. it is estimated by the irish exporters association that a truck travelling from ireland to mainland europe via holyhead and dover will incur a road use charge of eur 120 and an external cost of eur 30. therefore, a roundtrip will incur a fee of eur 300 as a result of this legislation. the main export sectors that will be affected include pharmaceuticals, ict, medical devices, dairy and other food products. moreover, the road haulage sector employs over 30 000 people in ireland. the bottom line is that these new charges will increase the cost of transporting irish exports into european markets. i voted against this report as the eu should be seeking ways to improve our competitiveness in line with the europe 2020 strategy instead of introducing legislation which threatens our competiveness.
in writing. − in order to ensure sustainable development and appropriate environmental policies at eu level, it is essential that policy makers are provided with reliable data on the environmental impact of economic activities. i support this resolution as it lays out a number of effective measures for the collection of more comprehensive data. if the eu is serious about increasing recycling, reducing waste and limiting air emissions and climate change then it must take action. the most effective way to achieve european goals in relation to sustainable development and environmental policies is through full cooperation across all member states. therefore mandatory data collection on the impact of economic activities by member states is necessary. the more accurate and reliable the information provided is, then the better our environmental policies will be.
madam president, today’s discussion on sudan and south sudan is encouraging and positive in a world where there is more bad news than good news. the european union has both an opportunity and a responsibility to nurture the new state along and to ensure that democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are established in sudan and south sudan. particularly, i think the record of the european union – because of the founding principles of schuman based on peace and prosperity – puts us in a position in which large states worldwide could not be, because they might be seen to be using sudan to exploit it for their own internal and external policies. we can do a great deal, working with the un, to establish these new states, particularly south sudan, and to ensure that they do not have civil wars, as often happens when new states occur.
deputising for the author. – mr president, i want to thank the commission for its reply. i think the labelling of food produce is something that is to be commended. but the commissioner has put his finger on it in relation to a number of issues: first of all the fact that there are some diverse standards; secondly, the long time that it takes from the time of application to actual registration. if ever there was an example of bureaucracy at european level, this surely is it. in my country, it takes the department of agriculture five years from the time that you actually make an application until you are registered. given the crisis in germany, we need more food labelling, we need more standards; we need more quality control. so i would urge the commission that we should have a much tighter time frame.
member of the commission. − my response to the first question is that the commission is aware of the need to speed up the legislation procedures. proposals to this end have been made in the context of the quality package, which i referred to in my first answer. the commission’s proposals include reducing the time for scrutinising the application it receives to six months and also reducing the objection period to two months. if parliament and the council decide to adopt the commission’s proposals, almost one year – or ten months at least – will be saved for the majority of applications. as for the other question, there was a health council yesterday which dealt with the issue. we shall follow up on it at a later stage while taking the today’s extraordinary agriculture council into account. i am not in a position at this moment to give further details but we will definitely follow up on it.
mr president, i will be very brief. i apologise that i did not get here in time for the commissioner’s answer at the beginning. i suppose my question refers to the fact that there is a low level of awareness among producers in many countries, and in some countries it is very low. is the commission taking any steps to try and increase that level of awareness, not just amongst consumers but amongst producers?
the figures are frightening: the baltic states, ireland, greece and slovakia, 30%; spain, 40%; in your own country, mr president, one million people under 25 with no prospects of a job. in italy, 76% of youngsters say they are going to emigrate. i would love to think that youth mobility within europe is the answer, but most of the countries in europe, barring the three you mentioned, have unemployment problems. what we really need is to focus on the fact that europe has an ageing population. we cannot afford this brain drain. these are highly educated, highly motivated young people and what we need is to hold them, to keep them, to introduce the kind of imaginative schemes that you have already mentioned in the three member states, germany, the netherlands and austria. i welcome the fact that the commission is recommending initiatives to the member states. i think that in some of the member states, however, we need some financial assistance in terms of training people and keeping them at home, because i think that, rather than feeding the jobs market within the eu, they will be feeding the job markets of australia and other countries further afield.
thank you for your reply, commissioner. i understand that there are people bragging and conducting so-called criminal business on the internet, and that gang business includes drug trafficking, human trafficking, prostitution, weapons trafficking, smuggling illegal immigrants across borders, even murder, theft, fraud, armed robbery and much more. this is all being done on facebook, using the system, and it is being bragged about. surely it is possible for europol and the service providers – perhaps even coordinated by the commission – to identify some of these people. the more they feel that they are immune, the more their numbers will grow. i would ask the commissioner to consider taking some special steps to coordinate a response to what some of these people are doing on the internet.
i did have a question for the commissioner further on, which we will not get to tonight, and which did indeed ask for his view on the merging of the esf and the egf, on which you have spoken but did not give us an opinion. so if you are in a position to do that i would appreciate hearing it, and also, if there were to be a merger would you see an increase in budgetary appropriations for the social fund? finally, my other question relates to the timing, and you spoke about the difficulty with the commission and the budgetary authority. what about also encouraging member states, as soon as they have applied for the egf, to start putting in place themselves the measures that they have applied for under the egf, because that at least would ensure that workers would not be waiting for the application of the fund?
mr president, can you indicate how many more questions you might be prepared to take in this section?
in writing. – i want to draw attention to the proposal in this report for a financial transaction tax (ftt). a financial transaction tax could deal with two problems at once — how to finance ever-growing demands to put new eu policies in place, and how to make the financial sector contribute to the resolution of the economic crisis that it helped to cause. the tax revenues could moderate payments eu member states currently make to the eu budget. at the same time, they will allow the smooth development of policies to safeguard the economic future of europe. we would have the resources for investment in research and development, fighting climate change and in building solidarity between the regions of the eu. europe should lead the world by levying this tax within its borders and campaigning for it to be introduced in the rest of the world. i urge the european commission to act promptly on foot of this report and meet the demands of this democratically-elected parliament to bring forward appropriate measures.
mr president, in relation to the carrying of heavy goods vehicles, this is quite serious as far as ireland is concerned. we are on the periphery of europe, with two sea bridges to mainland europe where all of these extra charges for road use and pollution are going to apply. i understand from the exporters’ association in ireland that this would add eur 150 per trip, or eur 300 per round trip, for haulage from ireland, which depends heavily on this type of haulage and also very heavily on exports. this will ensure that we will be less competitive. i believe that the commission and the council must look at this and must take into consideration the peripheral regions. it is not a major issue for the mainland european member states but is certainly a major issue for ireland and for other peripheral countries.
mr president, the eurovignette proposal is well intentioned. there are many commendable aspects to it. to reduce carbon emissions from vehicles is very commendable; to reduce heavy goods vehicle congestion is very commendable; and the spending of 15% of the tolls on infrastructure is very commendable. i would have liked to support this particular measure but i had to vote against because, as has been said already by my colleague, pat the cope gallagher, ireland’s economy is heavily dependent on exports. the eurovignette measures, if adopted in our country, would have devastating consequences. any additional charges on irish hauliers would have a major negative impact on our exports. i think i am supported by the spanish, the portuguese and also the italians. we are peripheral nations. we are totally dependent on our international markets. the high cost of diesel has pushed hauliers to the brink. regrettably, i had to vote against the measure.
mr president, i voted against the hirsch report as it fundamentally sees education not as a means by which people can improve their knowledge and skills, but solely as a tool for increasing the profits of big business. i completely reject that approach. the report claims that the implementation of the eu 2020 goals is a way to secure employment and a better standard of living. this is simply untrue. the eu 2020 strategy will deliver neither jobs nor a better standard of living. it offers more neo-liberal policies and a race to the bottom in wages and conditions. this report disgracefully calls for employers to be able to terminate apprenticeship contracts should the apprentices be deemed unsuited to their employment. that is a recipe for gross exploitation. i reject the call for the increased involvement of private higher-education institutions in the expansion of vocational training and instead demand meaningful training opportunities provided through massive public investment.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo freisin go háirithe nuair a mheastar go mbeidh 15 milliún jab le fáil ag daoine ag a mbeidh cáilíochtaí tríú leibhéal acu idir seo agus 2020. ag an am céanna, meastar go mbeidh laghdú 12 milliún jab ann do dhaoine nach mbeidh aon cháilíocht acu nó cáilíocht an-lag ar fad acu. dá bhrí sin, caithfear rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi seo agus is léir go bhfuil géarghá le hoideachas agus traenáil. tá 21 % de na daoine óga trasna na heorpa as obair agus tá se tábhachtach mar sin go bhfanfaidh siad in oideachas go dtí go mbeadh cáilíocht oiriúnach acu freisin agus go mbeadh comhoibriú idir na coláistí agus an lucht gnó i dtreo agus go mbeadh na cáilíochtaí sin oiriúnach. ina theannta sin, tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh meastachán neamhspleách ar na cáilíochtaí sin. má dhéantar na rudaí sin go léir, is féidir linn an fhadhb seo a réiteach amach anseo.
firstly, i welcome the commitment in the report to at least maintaining the cap and cohesion funding at present levels in the next perspective. there was much controversy in our group as well about the intermediate category, and it was decided to have a free vote. it does not affect my colleagues in ireland or ourselves at all because even though we are in the imf – and we are broke as a country – we are well above the european average in gdp terms; so whether there is an intermediate category or not does not affect us. however, we do think that there is a need for a fundamental appraisal of cohesion policy going forward, because as more and more regions go above the 75% threshold the policy is either going to become redundant or be reformed, and that is what we expect to happen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the grounds that such moves are important to reaffirm european solidarity at a time when it is being severely put to the test.
in writing. − it is important that europe reaffirms its commitment to and cooperation with international movements like the un at this time. the attention that the european parliament gives the un is most important.
i scríbhinn. is é an ionstraim is mó ar domhan um thaighde a thacú an seachtú clár réime, a bhfuil buiséad iomlán de €54.6 billiún aige, agus is cinnte go bhfuil an clár sin i gcroílár bheartas taighde an ae. ní mór athbhreithníu a dhéanamh air agus é a chur in oiriúint don domhan atá ag athrú, áfach, ó thaobh na géarchéime airgeadais agus cúinsí fioscacha inathraithe de go háirithe. faoi láthair, tá thart ar €1 milliún sa tseachtain ó chistí taighde an ae á fáil ag comhlachtaí éireannacha, agus tá deiseanna eile fós ann do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide (gbm) éireannacha. is iad na gbm a chruthaíonn 70% de phoist an limistéir euro agus tá an earnáil gbm ar chroílár an gheilleagair eorpaigh. dá bhrí sin, ní mór go bhfeabhsófaí ar thrédhearcacht agus go laghdófaí ar an ualach riaracháin ionas go mbeadh suim ag a thuilleadh gbm a bheith bainteach le cláir amach anseo, d’fhonn éifeacht an aontais i leith taighde, forbairt agus nuáil a áirithiú. ní mór an tréimhse deonaithe a laghdú agus an comhoibriú agus comhordú eorpach a fheabhsú d’fhonn dul i ngleic leis an oirneachadh atá ag déanamh dochair don chlár i láthair na huaire.
i scríbhinn. − is é príomhphointe na tuarascála seo ná nach foláir don aontas eorpach a sheacht ndícheall a dhéanamh chun fanacht ar bharr na n-earnálacha taighde, nuála agus eolaíochta. mura bhfuil bunchloch an taighde againn inniu, ní éireoidh linn barr feabhais a bhaint amach sa nuáil amach anseo. tá acmhainní taighde maithe de dhíth chun fostaíocht a chruthú agus a chothú san ae agus chun cumas iomaíochta an ae a láidriú go háirithe agus na tíortha i mbéal tionsclaíochta ag dul i neart. ní mór an comhoibriú idir an earnáil phríobháideach agus an earnáil phoiblí a fhorbairt agus gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide a spreagadh chun páirt níos mó a ghlacadh sa chlár. ní foláir go dtiocfadh an spreagadh seo ó na hardúdaráis. ag cruinniú an 4 feabhra, gheall ceannairí an ae agus na mballstát go raibh siad tiomanta i leith an tionscnaimh shuaineanta um aontas nuálaíochta. ach caithfear anois beart a dhéanamh dá réir a mbriathar. is iad an taighde agus an nuáil a chabhróidh linn teacht as an tsáinn eacnamaíochta ina bhfuilimid faoin láthair.
in writing. − given the economic crises the eu is facing it is essential we identify which areas of our activities lend themselves to helping us overcome our difficulties. research and innovation are central to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth so investment in r&d is the best possible response. considering the numerous political and economic changes that have taken place since the 7th framework programme was adopted it is necessary to amend fp7 to reflect the situation of the new reality. given the importance of knowledge-based industries to europe and our thriving r&d sector we cannot afford to wait until fp8 to take action. the ‘lisbon strategy’ of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 may have failed, but this does not mean we should abandon it entirely. we must continue to work towards this goal by amending fp7. in doing so we should address a serious failure under fp7 to provide funding for research in maternal and child health. close to 400 000 babies are born prematurely annually yet there is no funding for research in this area. pre-term birth is the number one cause of infant death and premature babies are far more likely to develop life-long chronic illnesses.
in writing. − the situation with credit ratings agencies must be addressed in europe. these private, profit-orientated organisations have far too much power over sovereign governments and i fully support plans to address this anomaly at european level.
in writing. − i support this report on the future of credit rating agencies (cras). the recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are major problems with this business such as over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by cras. indeed, cras played a significant role in the build-up to the financial crisis through the assignment of faulty ratings to structured finance instruments. this report, in advance of the legislative proposal the commission is preparing for the autumn, addresses these issues, calling for: a review of whether and how member states use ratings for regulatory purposes in order to reduce the general over-reliance on them of the financial regulatory system; a detailed impact assessment and viability study on the costs, benefits and potential governance structure of a fully independent european credit rating foundation; the exploration of establishing a truly independent european credit rating agency; the establishment of a european rating index which incorporates all ratings of registered cras that are available on the market.
i scríbhinn. − ba mhaith an rud é dá mbeadh gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheasa níos freagraí amach anseo. is í an fhírinne ná gur thug na gníomhaireachtaí an rátáil is airde a bhí ann do an-chuid ionstraimí airgeadais casta, ionstraimí a bhí lofa, mar a d’fhoghlaimíomar níos déanaí. molann an tuarascáil gur chóir go mbeadh anailís níos mó agus níos fearr á dhéanamh ag lucht an mhargaidh ar rioscaí, ionas nach mbeadh orthu brath an-iomarca ar na gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheasa.
i scríbhinn. − is é an léamh is déanaí atá ag an eagraíocht idirnáisiúnta saothair ar an scéal ná go bhfuil 115 milliún páiste i mbun oibre guaisí – ceann de na foirmeacha is measa den saothair leanaí – a chuireann saol agus sláinte an pháiste i mbaol. agus an lá domhanda i gcoinne saothair leanaí an 12 meitheamh ag druidim linn, vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála tráthúla, tábhachtaí seo a iarrann ar pháirtithe leasmhara an chomhaontaithe saorthrádála tiomantas a thabhairt, de réir fhorógra na heagraíochta idirnáisiúnta saothair um bhunphrionsabail agus cearta san ionad oibre, i leith gach cineál saothar éigeantach a dhíothú agus deireadh a chur le saothar leanaí. ní mór nach ndéanfaí neamhaird ar shárú eagraithe ar chearta an duine agus ar an saothar leanaí agus comhaontaithe trádála á bplé agus ní mór don ae seasamh láidir a ghlacadh d’fhonn beartas sóisialta agus caighdeáin shaothair agus shóisialta a chur chun cinn in idirbhearta trádála.
in writing. − the external dimension of social policy includes activities and initiatives of the eu aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-member countries. the failure today inside and outside the eu to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to both european enterprises and eu and non-eu workers and citizens. given the globalisation of industry and services, international labour standards are the basis for guaranteeing that the growth of the global economy can benefit all. this report demands a change in global governance and in the eu in order to better implement worker’s rights and working conditions, calling for the strengthening of the core labour standards which are embedded in the eight ilo conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour.
in writing. − promoting labour standards through the eu’s negotiations with third party countries benefits both the member states and the third party countries. by promoting higher safety standards and better pay the eu is helping improve workers’ lives. by insisting on better pay, the eu is also ensuring that there is a market in third party countries for eu exports. if we allow imports into europe from countries that do not ensure fair wages we are effectively pricing european companies out of the market. it is harder for eu companies to compete with third party countries who do not observe the same safety standards and who can pay employees much lower salaries. however, it is important to note the dangers involved in ‘soft law’ approaches to labour standards. as well as the fact that such rules are not binding and that there is no sanction if they are breached, it also risks reducing traditional supervisory systems in favour of informal monitoring procedures. therefore the eu must be vigilant and ensure that standards are adhered to and, if not, then action must be taken.
in writing. − i support this report which calls on the member states to ensure that people, at different times of life, have access to vocational education and training which is tailored to their needs that will facilitate and improve their participation in the labour market and in society more generally. vocational education and training should be accessible, available and affordable at all times of life, regardless of the people’s status on the labour market or of their income. in particular, in order to achieve a better social integration and greater social cohesion, this report urges member states to create training opportunities specific to groups such as unemployed youth, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women and people with disabilities. the report also points out that financing opportunities should be widened, simplified, and made more readily available, using the funding currently provided under the european social fund, the lifelong learning programme as a whole, and erasmus for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. − one of the most pressing challenges in the current economic climate is that of youth unemployment. not only is the unemployment rate higher among young workers than among the rest of the population but young workers are often to be found in insecure temporary jobs with lower pay and weaker legal protection. it is vitally important we address this. the forecast by the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) of growth of 80 million new jobs by 2020 is welcome. it is worth noting that there will be a shift towards industrial and technological development and a corresponding shift away from low-skilled labour. these new jobs will require workers with high and intermediate level skills. action needs to be taken quickly to ensure that adequately skilled workers are available to fill these positions. with that in mind we must ensure that our approach to learning is focused on results. we must provide young people with access to lifelong learning and to courses with practical training elements to enable them to take up these jobs and to grow and progress in their careers. i believe these changes to vocational education will benefit the economies of all member states.
i scríbhinn. − is laistigh de thréimhse ama na chéad ionstraime maoinithe don chomhar um fhorbairt eile a thiteann spriocdháta spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise. dá bhrí sin, ní mór leathnú ar an gcomhoibriú atá ar siúl leis na húdaráis áitiúla agus an ról atá acu ó thaobh an bhochtaineacht agus an t-ocras a chomhrac, seirbhísí uisce agus sláinte a fheabhsú agus an fhorbairt eacnamaíoch áitiúil a spreagadh a fhorbairt. ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt ar shlándáil an tsoláthair bhia, ar dhúshláin na hearnála talmhaíochta agus an táirgthe bheatha, agus ar ghéarchéim costais bheatha agus na hionstraimí maoinithe agus an mórbheartas don chomhar um fhorbairt agus chomhoibriú á gcruthú. fearaim fáilte roimh an méid atá ráite ar an ábhar sin sa tuarascáil. aontaím gur chóir don choimisiún anailís chuimsitheach a dhéanamh ar an tacaíocht bhuiséadach ghinearálta, le sonraí ann maidir leis an tacaíocht atá ag dul chuig earnálacha ar leith, chuig tionscnaimh ar leith, agus chuig rialtais áitiúla. chabhródh an t-eolas sin amach anseo agus iarrachtaí á ndéanamh dáileadh níos éifeachtaí a dhéanamh ar acmhainní agus mhaoiniú, agus bheifí in ann fadhbanna ar bith sa chóras dáilte a aithint dá bhrí. is beartas níos comhsheasmhaí a bheadh ann mar thoradh air seo.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh thuarascáil an uasail mitchell. is í aidhm na tuarascála ná seasamh pharlaimint na heorpa i leith mhaoiniú an chomhair um fhorbairt sa todhchaí a fhothú sula bhfoilsítear an creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil don bhliain 2013 ar aghaidh. ní mór amach anseo go mbeadh a dhóthain airgid á fháil i gcónaí ag comhar an ae um fhorbairt.
in writing. − having worked on this area at committee level before, i am obliged to stress the point that impact assessments must be free from outside interference and that this independence must be protected at all levels.
in writing. − i welcome this report, as i believe impact assessments to be a key instrument in the legislative process. european legislators should make greater use of these instruments as they can improve the legislative process by showing the possible impacts of their policy decisions. legislators must not be afraid to state harsh realities when looking at potential impacts. not only should impact assessments state the possibilities and make recommendations to legislators, they must also be prepared to recommend taking no action at all if it is considered to be the most appropriate course. legislation coming from europe has a massive impact on the lives of those living within its borders and we must use every opportunity to ensure this legislation is as fair and balanced as possible.
in writing. − many recent events have shown us the importance of consumer confidence and this is in part borne from proper laws to protect consumers in the marketplace. as such, it is imperative that this issue is addressed on a european level.
in writing. − the eu cannot claim to be a single market if obstacles to trade still exist. the immense costs incurred in cross-border trading represent a serious barrier. between legal fees, translation fees and implementation fees it can cost small businesses up to eur 15 000 to enter the e-commerce market of just one member state. according to a flash eurobarometer survey in 2008 this barrier is seen as a major concern by up to 60% of retailers. if laws regulating consumer transactions were harmonised throughout the eu, small and medium businesses (smes) and consumers in all member states would benefit. the removal of these barriers would encourage more smes to exploit the potential of e-commerce. i believe smes are crucial for economic recovery in many member states. ireland’s path to recovery is being export-led, thus the removal of barriers entering in the eu market is crucial. the findings and recommendations of this report also show the potential for great benefits for consumers. if cross-border trade increases, consumers will be offered a wider choice of products and more competitive prices.
in writing. − while academics will argue over the best possible way to measure progress, we as european legislatures must be confident in the method we pick and ensure that it stands up to argument both today and in the future.
in writing. − gdp (gross domestic product) is the aggregated added value of all money-based economic activities. it is the most widely known and used measure of macroeconomic activity. indeed, gdp has become the primary indicator for overall societal development and progress in general. there is growing international recognition of the inadequacy of gdp as an indicator of social progress, social inclusion, environmental sustainability, and resource efficiency. i support this report which calls for the development of clear and measurable indicators that take account of climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion. it further underlines the need to measure quality of life in societies, considering that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, and environmental conditions. it also fully supports the establishment of a solid legal framework for the european environmental economic accounts as a positive step in the ‘gdp and beyond’ process, and, indeed, welcomes the commission initiative to present an index for environmental pressure, to be submitted alongside gdp.
i scríbhinn. − tá tábhacht shocheacnamaíoch ag baint le hearnáil feirmeoireachta na heorpa, go háirithe ó thaobh slándáil an tsoláthair bhia a áirithiú agus pobail tuaithe agus an chomhshaol a chothú de. mar sin, ní foláir go mbeadh buiséad láidir agus acmhainní mar is ceart ag an gcbt sa chaoi is go mbeadh sé in ann na haidhmeanna sin a chomhlíonadh. tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir leis na haidhmeanna agus tascanna leathana atá ag an cbt agus gur chóir gann gearradh siar ar mhaoiniú an cbt don bhliain 2013, d’fhonn is go mbeadh sé in ann freastal mar is ceart ar na riachtanais leathana sin. táthar ag súil le mórán ón gcéad creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil eile, ó thaobh aidhmeanna straitéis 2020 don eoraip a bhaint amach, taighde agus nuáil a spreagadh, na dúshláin atá ann don chomhshaol a chomhrac, aidhmeanna cistí sóisialta, comhtháthaithe agus réigiúnacha na heorpa a bhaint amach, agus an t-oideachas, an tsoghluaiseacht, an oiliúint agus an fhoghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil a chothú de. ní mór go mbeadh acmhainní dóthanacha agus creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil láidir ag an ae má tá sé chun na spriocanna sin a bhaint amach agus freastal ar riachtanais pobal an aontais.
in writing. − we need to gear the eu budget for the 21st century. the budget must match our ambitions. new pan-european investments are needed to boost european-level added value by acting as a catalyst for further private investment and by creating economies of scale. major green investment is needed in areas like renewable infrastructure, with more wind farms in the north and solar energy in the south. irish investment in wind energy will only pay off, for example, if there is european infrastructure to export that energy via the uk and france. with oil prices rising and increasing environmental damage, we know the eu must now drive forward to a more sustainable society by becoming more energy efficient, by using more renewable energy, by investing in public transport and ensuring our children live in a clean and healthy environment. the long term eu budget should also follow the agreed so-called eu 2020 strategic objectives, especially our internationally binding climate objectives. cap should be reformed to pay farmers for the delivery of public goods, such as an attractive countryside rich in biodiversity. we need to maintain the cap budget to ensure these vital environmental services are provided in ireland and across europe.
in writing. − the eu budget post-2013 must be fit for purpose to maintain competitiveness, to increase economic growth and to combat high unemployment in europe. i believe that agriculture and a strong, well resourced common agricultural policy are central to this objective. i fully support the call in the report to link agriculture to the europe 2020 strategy as i firmly believe that the agriculture and food sector can make a valuable contribution to future economic growth in ireland and across europe. that is why it is essential that we protect and maintain the some eur 1.7 billion which ireland annually receives under the cap. a strongly funded common agricultural policy will protect europe’s food security, contribute to our climate change targets and maintain employment in our rural communities. i am pleased that the report recognises the role played by the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in maintaining employment in coastal, island and remote regions. i believe that we must direct more funding to these communities under the european fisheries fund post-2013. the peace process in ireland has benefited hugely from the eu budget. i urge all members to support the retention of these important programmes.
in writing. − renegotiation of the eu budget will impact on how the union operates in the coming years and on the programmes it can afford. the budget as a percentage of the eu gross national income should reflect the agreed priorities of the european union. but the negotiations must also reflect member states’ needs in light of the consolidation efforts under way in many countries, including ireland. the aim to boost employment, productivity and social cohesion in the europe 2020 growth strategy cannot be discarded because of the current financial problems. productivity-enhancing policies, particularly those in green energy and research and development must be recognised as the driver of the eu’s economic future. another issue of major importance, not just to ireland but to the eu as a whole, is the common agriculture policy. it is recognised that significant change is coming after 2013, but changes to payments under the cap should gradually evolve to allow farmers adjust to the new arrangements. at the same time, the cap budget must help european farmers adapt to new challenges and opportunities.
madam president, this is a passionate, exhilarating if somewhat controversial debate, but nevertheless i am certainly enjoying this expression of democracy. it has to be said that we are entitled to discuss this matter because hungary is part of the european union. but hungary is also entitled to have a constitution and certainly this is far better than the old constitution of 1949 brought in by the communists. it is a genuine effort to reflect modern values within the european context. while people will argue with some elements of it, it has to be stated that a constitution can always be amended by way of referendum and, if we find at european union level that some aspects of it are not in keeping with european law and values, that can be done and taken on board. it has to be said as well that this constitution was passed on 18 april with 262 votes for and 44 against and that is an expression of democracy. people have objected to some aspects of it, for instance to the references to christianity and to god, but this is nothing new. these are found in the german, polish and irish constitutions. as a christian-democrat i am absolutely delighted that there is a reference to god and christianity, because it is a fundamental part of our culture and our history and i think it is far better to have it included than excluded and creating a godless society. people have also objected to granting citizenship to people outside of hungary but in ireland we have had passport facility for people who are officially living in northern ireland, which is in the united kingdom. this has helped the situation more than it has detracted from it and we now have a better relationship with the united kingdom than ever before, expressed by the visit of queen elizabeth two weeks ago. people have objected to the definition of marriage, the definition of life and so forth but, as i have said, if there are flaws they can be addressed in a referendum. finally, they are to be commended for including a limit to the extent of state debt, which is very important. if we had had that in our constitution in ireland we might not be in the mess we are now financially. so there is an awful lot of good in it and i think that if we are thinking of having a new constitution we can learn a lot from what hungary has done.
madam president, it is good that the european union should strive to have the best possible relations with all its neighbours, and indeed with all countries around the world. sometimes that can be difficult – particularly, i suppose, when it comes to russia, because it has a very chequered history. even since the fall of the iron curtain over 20 years ago, its behaviour towards some countries, particularly neighbours such as georgia, certainly cannot be admired. obviously, any negotiations with russia have to be underpinned by a recognition of the important values of respect for human rights and respect for neighbours. nevertheless, they do offer a great opportunity for tackling global issues like climate change and also, of course, a great opportunity to develop both our economies. russia is a rising country and a developing country in terms of wealth. certainly, if the fundamentals are right, there are great opportunities both for the european union and for russia in the long term.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would say to the commissioner that over the last number of years i have met many irish citizens who have been victims of misleading business directory companies. for example, i met a school secretary who paid over eur 2 000 because the school could not afford to pay it as she felt responsible because she had signed the form. she also felt very foolish. she thought nobody could be so stupid as to do what she had done, not realising of course that this happens to people all the time. i met an elderly lady whose husband was a taxi driver. she received a form on which there were some errors. she merely thought she was correcting the errors, sent the form back and subsequently received threatening letters for two years. she was terrorised by those letters to the extent that she was afraid to open the letter when it arrived in her door. i could not tell her not to pay the money. all i could say was that if i were in her position, i would not pay the money. that was the best advice i could give her. there are lots of other examples, which i know you have heard. the truth is that citizens expect to be protected by european legislation and they cannot understand why european legislation does not protect them in this respect. there is an ambiguity here. as i said, i tell citizens that i believe that they are protected, but i cannot guarantee it. it is my understanding, for example, that one of these companies was convicted in one region of spain, and yet all it did was simply move to another region and continue its work. one of the matters that concerns citizens is that they are not sure of how legal systems operate in other countries. they may feel that within their own member state they will be protected, but they are not sure what happens in another member state. equally, if these companies move outside the eu, they also have concerns about that. it is good to hear, therefore, that the commission shares our concern and that it is pushing for cooperation between member states and again looking at cross-border cases and trying to inform citizens and companies. commissioner, you said the situation was urgent, but it has been urgent for a very, very long time. citizens see many areas where eu legislation impacts on their lives, and so they cannot understand why they are not protected from fraudulent companies. i would ask you, commissioner, to understand that the word ‘urgent’ means ‘now’.
madam president, the european parliament has received hundreds of petitions from small businesses across the eu who claim to have fallen victim to these schemes. while paying these outrageous fees may put innocent companies under severe financial hardship, the victims are often too small to afford the legal costs of bringing actions against these directory companies. these companies often target victims that are based in another member state. this creates legal uncertainty for the victims, as they often do not know what the legal status is of such contracts in another country. the directory companies play on that uncertainty. whilst the commission has clearly stated that the directive on misleading and comparative advertising outlaws the misleading practices of these directory companies, it must also look at the transposing of that directive by the member states in order to clarify whether citizens are protected equally across europe. the fact that this directive has been transposed by member states does not necessarily mean that these measures are either comprehensive or in conformity with one another.
madam president, the position is exactly as colleagues have pointed out. i know this because in my own constituency, particularly in cork, a company called the european city guide has been fraudulently engaging with businesses all over the place. despite the fact that, as i understand it, it was asked to cease trading by the high court in catalonia in 2001 and was found to be guilty of misleading practices in the belgian courts and by the united kingdom office of fair trading, it continues to trade. this is not good enough. it is very important that we do two things: firstly, we have to try and raise awareness amongst businesses right across europe to ensure they are vigilant and do not fall foul of these misleading companies, and, secondly, we have to bring in legislation that ensures that, when they are taken to court, they either cease trading or are put behind bars. it is as simple as that.
in writing. – i ndiaidh an méid a thit amach sa tseapáin le déanaí, tá sé ríthábhachtach go ndéanfaí tástálacha struis ar stáisiúin núicléacha eorpacha d’fhonn caighdeáin sláinte agus rioscaí a mheasúnú, tubaistí poitéinsiúla a sheachaint agus imní an phobail a mhaolú. is cúis mhór imní do mhuintir na héireann í nach ndéanfar tástáil struis ar bith i sellafield, nach bhfuil suite ach cúpla céad ciliméadar ó chósta na héireann. tá baol suntasach i gceist d’éirinn ó na stáisiúin núicléacha sin atá ar chósta na breataine. is é sellafield an stáisiún is cáiliúla agus is ann a bhí sceitheadh suntasach tamall gairid ó shin, in 2005. is é an freagra a thug údaráis na breataine go bhfuil díolúine i bhfeidhm i gcás sellafield toisc nach bhfuil cumhacht á giniúint ann a thuilleadh. ní mórán sóláis atá ansin dóibh siúd in éirinn a bheidh thíos go mór leis i gcás tionóisce. tá stáisiún sellafield an-ghar go héirinn agus is iomaí timpiste a bhí ann go dtí seo, agus dá bhrí sin táim ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún brú a chur ar údaráis na breataine tástáil struis a dhéanamh ar an stáisiún toisc go bhfuil baol ann i gcónaí do mhuintir na héireann.
i scríbhinn. − ní hé seo an chéad uair a rinne parlaimint na heorpa plé ar shaincheist na n-eolairí gnó míthreoracha agus is minic a luadh fhadhb na n-eolairí leis an gcoimisiún agus na ballstáit. is minic a labhair mé féin ar an ábhar sa pharlaimint agus le déanaí chuaigh mé i dteagmháil leis an gcoimisiún chun na gearáin ar fad a bhí ag teacht ó mo dháilcheantar féin maidir le camscéimeanna eolairí idirlín atá bunaithe i dtíortha eile a phlé. ligeann lucht na gcamscéimeanna orthu gur fíoreolairí atá iontu agus ansin gearrann siad táille ar ghnóthais nár lorg an tseirbhís sa chéad áit agus nár thuig go mbeadh táille i gceist. cé go bhfuil treoir 2006/114/ce i bhfeidhm, níl a dhóthain á dhéanamh ag an gcoimisiún nó ag na ballstáit chun teacht i gcabhair ar na gnóthais atá buailte ag na camscéimeanna nó chun deireadh ar fad a chur le na camscéimeanna. tacaím le rún na parlaiminte, a tharraingíonn aird ar an gceist seo, agus iarraim arís ar an gcoimisiún bearta pras a chur i bhfeidhm d’fhonn deireadh a chur leis an gcleachtas loiteach, míthreorach seo. ní mór don ae muintir agus gnóthais an aontais a chosaint ón gcamscéim seo atá rófhorleathan ar fad.
in writing. − meps have received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory companies affecting thousands of mostly small businesses. the misleading business practices in question typically consist in luring businesses, as well as professionals and non-profit entities, into being listed in a business directory free of charge only for the signatories to later discover that they have signed a contract with a fee. indeed, the business directory companies are often established in a different member state, making it difficult for the victims to seek protection or redress from national authorities. i support this resolution. the directive on misleading and comparative advertising (2006/114/ec), which applies to business-to-business transactions, is insufficient in providing an effective remedy and is also inadequately enforced by member states. the resolution urges the commission to verify member states’ correct transposition, implementation and national enforcement of the directive and to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically black-listing misleading practices by business directories.
i scríbhinn. − tuigtear dom go bhfuil breis is 400 achainí maidir le mí-úsáid eolairí gnó faighte ag parlaimint na heorpa. is éard a tharlaíonn de ghnáth ná go gcláraíonn gnóthas le heolaire i taobh is go mbeadh ainm an ghnóthais liostaithe ann, ag ceapadh nach mbíonn táille ar bith i gceist. is níos déanaí a fhaigheann an gnóthas amach go bhfuil air táille a íoc. tacaím go hiomlán leis an rúin seo, a iarrann ar an gcoimisiún eorpach an treoir um fógraíocht mhíthreorach agus chomparáideach a chur i bhfeidhm i gceart.
mr president, the situation in madagascar is the classical situation where the new is no better than the old. this illegal regime came into power in 2009 with military support and matters have not improved one bit. so all the old bad habits remain: unlawful killings, mental and physical torture of prisoners, overcrowding and pre-trial detention are rampant, and of course poverty abounds with the minimum wage of usd 35 per month. the solution is obvious. we need a democratic regime there and we at the european union must do our best to establish that because, without that, progress cannot be made. if we can get free elections and a new government in place, the european union, in conjunction with other international bodies, particularly the african union, can help nurture this country along on the road to democracy and the road to economic recovery.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the hypocrisy of the imperialist powers and their double-speak about human rights is demonstrated most graphically behind the wire in guantánamo bay. the wikileaks files have now given an even clearer picture of the grossest abuses of human rights that have taken place there – the widespread use of waterboarding, other forms of brutal torture to extract confessions and information – and they also revealed that hundreds of people were held in guantánamo with no real evidence against them. yet barrack obama has not only ditched his promise to shut that horrific prison but has now approved the resumption of military trials for detainees. this hell-hole must be shut down immediately with all of the current detainees having access to fair trial before a civilian court, all of the secret cia torture prisons in europe must be shut down, the use of shannon airport in ireland for military and rendition flights by the cia must be ended, and the barbaric death penalty must be brought to an end. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, similar to mrs vergiat, i do not support torture. i do not support abuses of human rights anywhere. here i think we are talking about guantánamo bay. i think we are talking about secret prisons. i think we are talking about gross abuses of human rights and i think they are taking place in the biggest imperialist power in the world – the united states – and they should be condemned here.
mr president, the road to democracy is often a slow and tortuous one. some countries move quicker than others and we see that with the countries of the former soviet union, who are now our valid colleagues here in the european parliament. others countries move somewhat slower – maybe ukraine is an example of that. nevertheless, it is important to recognise that it has made progress but must go further. in particular, to establish true democracy it needs first of all to promote civil society, secondly end state control, particularly over ngos, thirdly have a truly independent judiciary and fourthly have a free and strong opposition. you cannot have proper democracy without having a free, strong and vibrant opposition. we in the european union must use every means to encourage ukraine to go the full circle and establish true democracy. it has made progress, but it needs to go a bit further.
mr president, we have heard a lot today about giving and giving and giving and cutting and cutting and cutting. i want to add another dimension to the mix, and that is ‘taking and taking and taking’. i am referring in particular to the interest rate being charged by the ecb to my own country, ireland. we are struggling manfully to reach our targets in relation to the bail-out. but this is not helping us. thankfully, the ep and the commission see that we are being unjustly and unfairly treated. charging an interest rate like the one we are being charged is akin to tying a millstone around the neck of a drowning man while you are sending out the lifeboat to save him. i would ask, particularly tomorrow, for the council to reduce the interest rate on ireland. if it does so, we will return to growth, we will meet our commitments and we will be a great nation, part of europe once again.
in writing. – firstly i wish to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. the final document sends a clear message to the commission, which is currently in the middle of its internal budget discussion on the next financial programme: namely that parliament sees the future common agricultural policy as one that is capable of delivering for the european economy in terms of employment and growth. it is a policy that will deal with the challenges of food security; it is a policy that will deliver public goods, protect the environment and enhance biodiversity; and it is a vehicle for tackling climate change. reducing european farmers’ capacity and hampering their competitiveness and viability with a weak cap budget would be counterproductive and short-sighted. this is a sector with a wealth of potential for expansion, for growth in the economy, for research and innovation and for tackling climate change. the cap produces measurable results and a clear return on investment with regard to the delivery of public goods. the cap post-2014, as outlined in this report, has clear aims and priorities, on which european farmers can and will deliver – but they need the support of a credible budget behind them.
in writing. – as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and a committed environmental campaigner, i expected a deß report which would represent a cap for the carbon era – one based upon environmental incentives, resource management, and a strong investment in the wider environmental issues facing the eu. as such, i am impressed by the degree to which the deß report has committed to greening cap; to supporting small- and medium-sized food producers; and to looking towards the future while also addressing the current concerns which face european agriculture. given that the commission is broadly in agreement with the parliament’s proposals, i call on this house to make their voice heard in ensuring that the european council also supports this report’s environmental proposals.
mr president, the measures we are discussing here this evening are to be welcomed. i think they show that the european union has the capacity, the will and the intelligence to take measures arising out of the lessons we have learned from the economic crisis. and, particularly, i think that some have said that this is a transfer of powers from member states to the european union. this is the old hoary chestnut that is brought forward to object to every proposal. if you are part of the european union it has to have some powers, and certainly we are sending out a message to the markets and the citizens that we can deal with crucial issues when they occur. certainly, i agree completely with what we are doing and i also would love to see us adopting automatic, binding sanctions and also the reverse qualified majority voting system. that would ensure that we would stay out of crisis in the future. prevention is better than cure and this is all about prevention. learning from what we have learned already.
madam president, on saturday i will set sail for gaza with hundreds of other activists as part of the freedom flotilla 2. we will be bringing medicine and reconstruction materials that are desperately needed. as a result of israel’s illegal blockade, 300 000 people live on less than a dollar a day and there is over 40% unemployment. catherine ashton has said that the flotilla is not the right response to the situation in gaza, but the eu’s response is to continue to fund, through research grants, the israeli armaments companies that make the weapons that kill palestinian civilians. instead of criticising the flotilla, the eu should condemn the threats of violence made against us by the israel defence forces. given the fact that they murdered nine activists on the flotilla last year, these threats have to be taken extremely seriously. the eu should also end its complicity with the continuing oppression of the palestinian people.
a uachtaráin, le scór bliain anuas tá ról lárnach glactha ag an aontas ó thaobh síocháin agus athmhuintearas a spreagadh in éirinn. tá breis is eur 1.3 billiún tugtha ag an aontas don chlár um shíocháin agus athmhuintearas ó 1994 agus thart fá eur 349 milliún tugtha aige don chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn. is léiriú iad na heachtraí foréigneacha in oirthear bhéal feirste agus dúnmharú ronan kerr cé chomh tábhachtach agus atá sé leanstan leis na scéimeanna sin a spreagann forbairt gheilleagrach agus shóisialta ar gach taobh den teorainn. an tseachtain seo, bhí ionadaithe ón gciste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn agus ón gclár um shíocháin agus athmhuintearas anseo i bparlaimint na heorpa chun labhairt leis an gcoiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach maidir le chomh tábhachtach agus atá tacaíocht na parlaiminte agus an aontais don chlár seo. creidimse go láidir go mba cheart don aontas eorpach agus na comhpháirtithe idirnáisiúnta eile diansmaoineamh a dhéanamh ar an cheist agus an cinneadh a ghlacadh leanstan leis an chlár fiúntach éifeachtach seo.
mr president, money spent at european level should, generally speaking, be adding value and that should be clear to citizens. unfortunately, adding value and demonstrating it are two different things. this is something we need to look at closely, perhaps aligning the budget to prove to citizens and member states that what we are doing here is adding value. secondly, the 2020 strategy is crucial to the future of the european union. in 2020 we will be judged not by the size of our budget but on whether we delivered on the 2020 strategy or not. if we do so, europe will be a better place: it will have more growth, more jobs, more renewable energy, more money being spent on innovation and more entrepreneurs. i think that has to be our target. finally, we also need our own resources, and the sooner we have them, the less time we will have or need for debating budgets every year.
madam president, i voted in favour of postponing the final vote because i think there may be some possibility that we can reach agreement with the council. the economic governance reports on the whole are not, in my view, the best option, but in the situation in which we find ourselves, they are probably the least worst. we are in a position that we have an inherently fragile structure supporting the euro. the stability and growth pact has not worked; even from the very beginning it was a failure. now we are in a position where we either give up on the currency or we try to put in place some form of economic governance that will strengthen its foundations and in some way rebuild the infrastructure. i agree with mario monti, who said that excessive deference to large member states contributed somewhat to the current economic crisis, and our proposals might at least stop that happening in the future. i just hope it is not a case of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted.
madam president, i strongly supported paragraph 25 of this resolution which ‘regrets that with the limited increase foreseen for the progress programme ...’, because the commission committed back in 2010 to reinstate the eur 20 million that was going from progress to microfinance and that obviously is not going to happen. the microfinance facility itself, although it is very small, plays a really important role in ensuring access to credit for micro-enterprises in the social economy and it is crucial, now that financial institutions are not lending money. however, that should not happen at the expense of the progress programme. as far as i am concerned, it is a question of robbing peter to pay paul. but also i just want to say that i strongly support the increased support for the lifelong learning programme grundtvig, and i particularly also welcome increasing support for the life+ programme.
madam president, i voted in favour of the deß report, but i must say i was disappointed that amendment 4 was not successful. it was supported by my group because it would have allowed specific aid under the first pillar to compensate for natural handicaps and also to ensure that agricultural activity was maintained in mountainous areas, in environmentally sensitive areas and in natura 2000 regions. i voted against amendment 23 not because i support gmos – i do not – but because i support subsidiarity and i believe that member states should be able to make their own choices on gmos. i was particularly pleased that we supported amendment 27, which sensibly rejected the introduction of burdensome and unclear requirements derived from the water framework directive into the cost-compliant system until we have a much clearer picture with regard to its implementation in the various member states. i was also pleased to see parliament support a multi-tiered safety net in the event of market disruption and, indeed, emergency situations. this is a reasonable and a proportionate response. finally, i was pleased that we overwhelmingly voted that the budget be maintained at least at the 2013 level. without that, all the rest of it is just talk.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus molaim an rapóirtéir an tuasal deß as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé. d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht aréir ó thús go deireadh ach níor éirigh liom preab na súile a fháil agus bhí brón orm faoi sin mar theastaigh uaim dhá cheist a chur ar an gcoimisinéir. ag an am céanna, bhí áthas orm go raibh an pharlaimint beagnach d’aonghuth, sásta an buiséad a choimeád ar a laghad ar an leibhéal céanna agus atá sé faoi láthair. the two points i wanted to raise with the commissioner were regarding the historical reference years and the milk quota. both of these are supposed to be abolished. we want to know when, and what will replace them? without that knowledge it is very difficult for farmers to plan for the future. the sooner we have answers to those questionsis fearr é d'fheirmeoirí na heorpa go léir. go raibh míle maith agaibh.
in writing. − mr draghi should be congratulated on his appointment, and i believe he is a very able candidate. however, i trust that he recognises the mandate which he has been given by meps, and accordingly entertains their views as governor of the ecb.
in writing. − it is important that this chamber represents the huge potential of the egaf.
in writing. − it is important for the eu to maintain its focus on disadvantaged areas to ensure they do not suffer further in the current economic crisis. helping poorer regions also helps more affluent ones by increasing spending power in neighbouring markets, which is one of the things the single market is all about. structural funding is of immense use in tackling challenges in these regions and we must guarantee it continues to operate effectively, delivering sustainable and inclusive growth. this report commented on the delays in project selection for areas such as the rail sector, energy, the environment, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and capacity building. these are key issues for competitiveness and therefore a key issue for economic growth. the eu must ensure excessive delays in respect of the allocation of funds are avoided.
in writing. − europe has almost 1 000 cities with populations of more than 50 000 and their composition is constantly evolving. given recent population changes and migration patterns, it is important to continually assess how we want the cities of the future to develop. answers must be found to the challenges of transport, housing, suburbanisation and green space. these responses must be tailored to local needs but recognising that issues such as unemployment, deprivation and social exclusion are universal problems. the eu’s regional and cohesion policies must address these challenges. the rise of cities as economic drivers for regions and entire countries means that the urban agenda must be based on spatial strategies that recognise the role of cities as not just places to live and work but as providing a service to those in the hinterland and beyond.
in writing. − it is crucially important to ensure the effectiveness of these and other european funds, in order to ensure their continued support from the european people.
in writing. − the current economic crisis facing europe requires a new approach. the crisis is political as well as economic in nature and we have seen time and time again that europe is strongest when it acts together and a unified response to this crisis is the best response. even the approach by the eu is novel in this regard as this is the first time the parliament is co-deciding with the council on macroeconomic developments and the council needs the parliament’s agreement in order to reach a final consensus. this report represents a large number of compromises from all sides of the argument. it is vitally important to send a strong signal to the markets and to citizens both of the eu’s intention to combat this financial crisis and of its capacity to resolve differences and address crucial issues. i also welcome the approach taken to address fraud and an unwillingness to act on agreed recommendations without a reasonable justification. it is important that such sanctions exist but it is equally important that we do not punish states where they are unable to achieve proposed targets and i welcome the report in this respect.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le cearta tomhaltóirí a chosaint agus trádáil trasteorann a spreagadh ar fud na heorpa. tá cearta tomhaltóirí fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh feidhmiú éifeachtach an mhargaidh aonair de. vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála toisc go moltar bearta ann a chinnteodh go mbeadh cosaint ann do thomhaltóirí i ngach cearn den aontas. de réir na bhforálacha atá ann, beidh ar thráchtálaithe eolas cruinn, soiléir a chur ar fáil go prapúil agus ina éagmais sin ní féidir le tomhaltóir a bheith faoi cheangal ag cianchonradh nó ag conradh seacháitribh. cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh a bhfuil ann maidir leis an gceart a thabhairt do thomhaltóirí a n-intinn a athrú i ndiaidh earra a cheannach ar líne. is trí bhíthin ríomhphoist nó an ghutháin laistigh de thréimhse dhá sheachtain a bhféadfaí é seo a dhéanamh. tá méadú suntasach tagtha ar an tsiopadóireacht ar líne san ae agus ní mór go mbeadh cosaint ann do thomhaltóirí atá ina bun. ní foláir a chinntiú, áfach, nach gcuirtear ualach riaracháin ró-throm ar ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide. ní mór cothromaíocht a bhaint amach idir cearta tomhaltóirí a neartú agus srian a chur ar an rómhaorlathas.
in writing. − it is important to underline the necessity of consumer rights, particularly those related to online purchases, in this and future reports in this area.
in writing. − i supported this deal between the european parliament and council on a directive on consumer rights. the proposal for the directive merges the four existing community directives into a single legal instrument. i would have liked to have seen a higher level of consumer protection in some areas but the proposal as a whole is a very good compromise and will enhance the rights of the consumers throughout the eu. several important points will mean real added value for the european consumer; the directive now applies to digital products and (partly) to passenger travel; the trader is now required to provide the consumer with specific information in the pre-contractual phase, in on-premises contracts as well as in off-premises and distance contracts; immediately before a consumer places an order, she has to be informed (again) about the full price and the main characteristics of the product, and she has to explicitly confirm that the order implies and obligation to pay; moreover, the right of withdrawal will now be fully harmonized in all member states providing a 14-day withdrawal period. further there will be a prohibition of so called pre-ticked boxes causing problems especially in the passenger travel sector.
in writing. − a directive harmonising consumer rights across europe makes sense. it also has the potential to boost internet and distance sales businesses because shoppers will have greater confidence in services based in the eu. providing this information will give consumers confidence and encourage them to engage in cross-border shopping, providing them with better choice and value. any increase in cross-border shopping will be a benefit to the internal market as a whole. online sales and e-commerce in europe were worth eur 163 billion in 2010 and the centre for retail research predicts online sales in europe will grow by 18.7% to eur 202.9 billion in 2011. this is a highly lucrative market and we must ensure that consumers are adequately protected. the directive also protects businesses. differing consumer laws in member states have deterred companies from expanding their markets. by harmonising these laws across the eu, businesses can be confident the rules that apply in their home market also apply everywhere else in the eu.
in writing. − i supported this report on the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the current directive only covers spent fuel storage facilities directly related to nuclear installations, the current proposal intends to assure safety in the long term of the management of existing and future radioactive waste. it is crucial that we work together to guarantee the highest possible safety standards. indeed, many generations to come will remain at risk this report calls on member states to accept common minimum standards, invest in new technologies and, importantly, to ban nuclear waste export to third countries.
in writing. − this report highlights a serious flaw in eu governance that must be addressed as soon as possible. member states with nuclear power enjoy a competitive advantage over states that are nuclear-free. however, states adjacent to countries with nuclear power plants can be adversely affected by their neighbour. it will be recalled that in the past carbon emissions from some member states created acid rain in other countries. also nuclear fallout from chernobyl affected eu states. this is the case in ireland, where sellafield – one of the world’s biggest nuclear reprocessing plants – has been contaminating the irish sea to the detriment of ireland since the 1950s. apart from the threat of accident or terrorist attack, there is also considerable evidence of adverse health effects along ireland’s eastern seaboard attributed to sellafield discharges. europe has been using nuclear technology for more than 60 years and still there is no policy on management and disposal of nuclear waste. the 12th congress of the international radiation protection association called for a regional approach to the transport of nuclear waste. the industry and parliament should recognise that disposal and reprocessing is also a transnational policy area that cannot be left to individual member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the deß report on the common agricultural policy, which evaluates the communication from the european commission on the cap towards 2020. of note, the deß report stresses the important role that agriculture can play in the europe 2020 strategy. in particular, it emphasises the importance of agriculture as a source of employment in rural areas. while containing both favourable and unfavourable elements, the report provides a good, solid basis for a reform package. in my opinion, the most important element at this stage in the reform process is to maintain the current budgetary support for the cap for the period 2014 to 2020.
in writing. − i particularly welcome the proposals in this report to protect and encourage young farmers, through grant schemes and other measures. the age profile in farming remains skewed towards the older age group: 34.1% of farmers in the eu are over 65, while only 6.1% of farmers are under 35. a reformed cap must account for this. reform is needed in other areas, which will mean big changes for some farmers. because of this, the new cap must include transitional arrangements in established sectors subjected to radical change going forward. change is always difficult but the agriculture sector must adapt to market realities. global demand and greater realisation of the need for food security means agriculture will be a growth area for the eu going forward and particularly important for less developed economies. the new cap needs to effectively target the areas of inefficiency by incentivising new practices. for instance, in ireland there is a need for greater scale on our farms and throughout the eu changes to traditional uses of land offer great opportunities. for instance, tourism and recreation can be important drivers of rural economies. that means the cap budget must be maintained at its current level and index -linked post-2013.
a uachtaráin, bhí an díospóireacht seo an-suimiúil agus tá sé tábhachtach dár saoránaigh. mr president, one of the problems i find with the european union is that an awful lot of the good work we do is never actually transmitted to the citizens. it is very easy to get publicity if you want to be negative in the member states, in the media, etc., but a lot of the good work we do is never reported. that is partly our own fault. as has been pointed out, if only 26% of citizens are aware of this facility, then you have to ask what are we going to do about it, and whose fault is it. certainly it is something that is of major importance. speakers have mentioned people with disabilities but this can add value to the lives of average individual citizens. we should be making an all-out effort to communicate that message to every single citizen so that they can see the positive side of the european union, which is sadly neglected in these times.
a uachtaráin, chuir sé ardú meanman orm an méid a dúirt an rapóirtéir anna maria corazza bildt faoin ábhar tábhachtach seo. i am pleased to have an opportunity to say a few words about it. coming from ireland where we are in the middle of a difficult recession – imf bail-out, etc. – i can see exactly where the problems in relation to retail are. one of the real issues here is the survival of businesses – smes – in town centres, etc. which are competing against the big multinationals. while we need regulation i am prepared to go along with self-regulation up to a point, but at the same time we have to ensure that the consumer, the processor, the producer and the retailer are all given fair play, and particularly that consumers can have confidence that they are getting fair value for money. i think what we can do at eu level is to give some kind of coherence to that, and certainly this is a start in that regard.
a uachtaráin, tríd is tríd, tá mé i bhfabhar na tacaíochta buiséid seo do na tíortha atá ag forbairt, ach chun a bheith macánta táim beagáinín amhrasach faoi chomh héifeachtach is atá sé. the idea of budgetary support for developing countries goes back to the marshall plan and is seen as perhaps the most effective way of implementing the paris declaration and the accra agenda. indeed, the european union spent eur 13 billion on this from 2003 to 2009. obviously, some good has come of it. but i am just wondering how effective it really is and, particularly, how we can justify that type of expenditure, because it is difficult to assess the effect in terms of the twin objectives of poverty reduction and the strengthening of democracy in the countries that are recipients of this aid. i would like an objective view. there are different views but certainly an objective view would be welcome.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús an rapóirtéir a mholadh as ucht an óráid bhreá a thug sé faoin bhfuinneamh agus an méid atá le déanamh againn idir seo agus 2020. the rapporteur used a phrase which is very important. he said ‘the european interest’. it is about time we started thinking about the european interest, not the member states’ interest, not the global interest, but the european interest. the sooner we become self-sufficient in terms of energy, the better we will be able to contribute to the entire world. certainly we need a europe-wide grid, not in 2050, but as soon as possible. we need renewable energy – wind, wave, tidal, bio, solar. all of these are within our remit. we have to develop these. also if we have fossil fuels within europe, let us develop them. the sooner we wean ourselves off fossil fuels coming from other regimes, the stronger we will be in europe and the greater chance we will have of creating a sense of europe – one voice, one europe – and then we will be able to convert the world.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is about the future of universal social services and proposes pragmatic ideas for advancing the quality of those services, and decent working conditions for those who deliver them. it is based on widespread consultation with civil society, with the social partners, and with local and regional authorities, and on detailed political compromises consolidating 285 amendments to the report. it is my objective to try to maintain the integrity of those compromises in the vote tomorrow. a high-level stakeholders’ working group is proposed. for me this is the most important aspect of the report. we can differ here on matters of principle and on matters of law but the proposed working group provides us with an ongoing method to arrive at implementable solutions. i also propose a fourth forum on services of general interest to monitor progress of the working group and other initiatives such as the european voluntary quality framework. research consistently proves that social services, and public services more generally, are not only socially invaluable, but are also economically vital. public services contribute 26% of our gdp and employ 64 million people, one third of whom are employed in the health and social services, while eurofound research shows that public services are one of the most important ways of enhancing the citizens’ quality of life, ensuring full inclusion in society and providing for social and territorial cohesion. the report as it stands outlines reforms to address the problems and legal uncertainties that providers and users have identified as needing urgent solutions, such as the difficulties arising from current procurement and state aid rules. it also proposes an active role for social economy enterprises and actors, urges that a race to the bottom be prevented through compliance by contractors and sub-contractors with member states’ social, environmental, and quality criteria, and looks for an eu statute on mutual societies. the world has changed dramatically since 2007, the last occasion on which social services were addressed in this parliament. the ‘light regulation’ economic model, assiduously promoted by the commission and the council over many years, spectacularly collapsed at the end of that year. that collapse has had enormous human, social and economic costs. some member states’ debt and budget deficits have reached crisis levels as a consequence of the nationalisation of privately owned bank debt, resulting in vicious austerity programmes which are hitting the vulnerable hardest. the pressures generated by this situation are putting massive strain on the funding of social services, and the report calls for enhanced eu programmes and for project bonds to help address those problems. because of the economic and unemployment crisis our citizens face, they have a greater need than ever for access to high quality social services, while our economies and our societies also need the added value which such services can deliver. i hope that this report can be adopted in full tomorrow and look forward to working with all the stakeholders to ensure that our citizens get the services they deserve. to conclude i want to thank everybody who worked with me on this report – the shadows, the staff, those in civil society – who took part and indeed brought forward many innovative ideas which i hope the working group will be in a position to develop over the time to come.
mr president, i want to indicate my strong support for the rapti report. perhaps my main concern is that, in times of austerity, european citizens look to the eu to help provide a safety net and, while the actions we can take at european level are limited, nonetheless the universal service obligation is a mechanism which can support citizens where market forces have failed. indeed we have plenty of examples of that happening in recent times, especially where the financial markets have failed european citizens. as i said, circumstances have changed and therefore, in that context, we do need to re-evaluate how appropriate existing legislative provisions are for universal service. we need to ensure that the real needs of citizens are met. finally, 112, the european emergency number; it is a great idea, but we must ensure that member states provide timely, accurate and reliable location information on the 112 service. if we can do that, then a full-scale promotion of the number, a european emergency number, is warranted. like the universal service obligation, it can be a safety net for citizens.
mr president, i too welcome the outcome of the vote on this report. what we are doing here is supporting a proper legal basis whereby member states, if they choose, can ban the cultivation of gm crops. we are trying to give some legal certainty and it makes no sense if we have one case after another in the court of justice. we want to ensure freedom of choice for consumers and farmers and we are trying to do this in a reasonable, practical and workable way. i was happy to see some amendments carried from my own group, in particular amendment 44, where it states that the long-term environmental effects of gmo crops, as well as their potential effects on untargeted organisms, should be rigorously assessed. also paragraph 47, which came from the alde group, was voted through and it allowed grounds such as the maintenance of local biodiversity and the need to ensure seed purity to be used. today we have applied the precautionary principle and that is wise. finally, we asked the council and commission to ensure that necessary resources for independent researchers on the potential risks of gmo would be in place, and i think that was a good move on our part.
mr president, i voted in favour of the lepage report because i oppose the spread of genetically modified organisms. the pro-gmo agenda is driven by six major food corporations led by monsanto. they are backed up by some of the right wing in this parliament and other parliaments who have opposed here today the support for even the extremely limited requirement for a risk assessment before authorising a new gmo variety. the companies’ profits are rising dramatically as their stranglehold over agricultural production is increased. as a result of their control over these seeds, farmers are forced to buy the seeds, causing prices to rise dramatically. they are forced to buy them from these same corporations, as they have no other choice. the environment also suffers through the loss of biodiversity and the growth of weed resistance, which leads to the use of even more harmful pesticides and the crushing of sustainable farming. finally, consumers also suffer from the bad impact on human health of the increased use of chemicals in farming as well as the unknown impact of gm.
mr president, while there are some positive statements in this resolution, i have some concerns and could therefore not support it, in particular recital h, which speaks of ‘unclear wording when defining basic notions such as “family” and the right to life from the moment of conception’. i have not read the wording, which is described as unclear; however, there are many clear references to the term ‘family’ in the universal declaration of human rights and, indeed, in the charter of fundamental rights which we have recently appended to the lisbon treaty. according to article 33 of the charter, ‘the family shall enjoy legal, economic and social protection’. that seems pretty clear to me. indeed the word ‘family’ appears five times in the charter and six times in the universal declaration of human rights. i know there are many in this house who would like to get rid of the word ‘family’ but i simply do not support that view. furthermore, the right to life from the moment of conception or not is a matter for member states to decide. time and time again we have this useless debate in this house. member states have the right to make their own decisions on their own territory – i support that. i do not seek to push my pro-life views on other member states. i believe citizens of all member states have the right to make their own decisions in this matter, and i am supported on this by the treaties.
mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur because i believe that a well-funded cohesion policy sends the right message to european citizens when the word solidarity and the principle of solidarity have certainly been sorely tested right across the eu. in particular today i am pleased that we supported amendment 34, which calls for the creation of regions in the intermediate category. this will help to avoid unequal treatment of regions that no longer come under the convergence objective. given the extremely severe impacts of the economic and the financial crisis on citizens and on regions, it is very important to ensure that we have an appropriate and a proportionate response. furthermore, in certain regions the impact of the economic and the financial crisis has been particularly severe, for example in my own region, the border, midlands and west of ireland. in that context it is crucial that the most up-to-date information is used so that policies in place from 2013 onwards reflect and react to the actual situation on the ground, not the situation of a few years ago. it makes no sense to use out-of-date information, so we must ensure that we do not do that.
in writing. − it is essential that the european parliament chooses the right members for the right portfolios. i wish anni podimata the best in her new role.
in writing. − the globalisation fund is one of the eu’s greatest resources, and essential to many workers across the union. it is essential that the fund is used productively and efficiently and implemented to maximum effect.
in writing. − it is essential that the eu solidarity fund is used to help those most in need: families whose access to important resources has been cut off, whose children cannot attend school and businesses which are immobilised by impromptu events.
in writing. − it is essential that this fund is used in a responsible and efficient manner.
i scríbhinn. − is buncheart gach duine san ae é teacht bunúsach a bheith acu ar bhonneagar teileachumarsáide. ní mór go mbeadh sé ar chumas gach uile duine san aontas leas a bhaint as buntáistí na ré digití. áit nach bhfuil an spreagadh airgeadais ann don earnáil phríobháideach an bonneagar cuí a chur i bhfeidhm, cinntíonn an treoir um sheirbhísí uilechoiteanna go nglacfaidh an stát an fhreagracht air féin seirbhís bhunúsach a chur ar fáil do chách. tacaím go hiomlán le sprioc ‘leathanbhanda do chách’ an chláir oibre digitigh agus aontaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir lena dhóthain airgid a chur ar fáil d’fhonn é seo a bhaint amach. is seirbhís le cumas suntasach tarrthála í an uimhir 112 ach tá sé rí-léir nach bhfuil cur amach a dhóthain uirthi san ae. mura bhfuil eolas agus taithí mhaith ag muintir an ae ar an uimhir seo, ní mórán maitheasa atá ag gabháil léi. ní mór go mbeadh teacht ag gach éinne san ae ar an uimhir seo. ní foláir léirmheas cuimsitheach a chur ar bun d’fhonn an tseirbhís a fheabhsú agus a chinntiú go mbíonn an t-eolas agus an cumas ag muintir na heorpa an uimhir 112 a úsáid i gcás éigeandála.
in writing. − the 112 number is a strategic and life-saving resource, and the eu needs to do more to promote this initiative.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór níos mó a dhéanamh ar leibhéal an ae chun an uimhir ghutháin éigeandála ‘112’ a chur chun cinn. de réir suirbhé a rinne eurobarometer le déanaí, ní thuigeann ach 26% de mhuintir an ae gurb í an uimhir ‘112’ atá le glaoch i gcás éigeandála. tá an uimhir sin thar a bheith úsáideach agus tábhachtach do dhaoine aonair agus do theaghlaigh agus iad ar laethanta saoire san eoraip le linn an tsamhraidh.
in writing. − i welcome this report and the value of the ‘112’ number. i would propose that all eu airports, seaports and border crossings prominently display signs showing that ‘112’ is the phone number for emergency services throughout the eu. these signs should be displayed in arrival and departure areas, and at security points including passport control, to promote awareness of the service. with schools closed for the summer holidays and families heading off on their vacations it is important that people be aware of the ‘112’ european emergency number. more must be done to promote awareness of this number and to improve the effectiveness and quality of emergency call systems. with the right technology upgrades dispatchers could be informed within seconds of the location of callers and we should look into this. that the number can be dialled anywhere in the 27 member states of the eu and gives access to the police, ambulance, coastguard and fire service is an invaluable service and of vital importance to holidaymakers.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le plean gníomhaíochta comhtháite eorpach a bhunú d’earnáil an mhiondíola.
i scríbhinn. − tá dlíthe éifeachtachta um chosaint an tomhaltóra fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh an mhargaidh aonair de. ní mór go mbeadh creat dlíthiúil láidir soiléir ann d’fhonn a chinntiú go mbíonn tomhaltóirí lánmhuiníneach agus iad ag íoc as seirbhísí nó earraí áit ar bith san ae. tá fadhbanna i gceist leis na rialacháin mar atá faoi láthair. cuireann difríochtaí idir dlíthe náisiúnta leis na moill agus na costais arda a bhíonn i gceist go minic. anuas ar sin, níl an líonra um chosaint an tomhaltóra ag feidhmiú ar lán a chumais toisc easpa comhoibrithe ó na ballstáit. is iad tomhaltóirí atá thíos leis seo, agus trádálaithe bradacha ag baint úsáide as laigí an chórais le brabús a dhéanamh. is cur chuige forchéimnitheach a mholtar sa tuarascáil d’fhonn an treoir a leasú, rud a ligfeadh don cpc feidhmiú i gceart agus cosaint mar is cóir a chur ar fáil do thomhaltóirí eorpacha. chabhródh léirmheas cuimsitheach ón gcoimisiún, mar a mholtar sa tuarascáil, go mór agus na laigí a bhaineann le dlíthe um chosaint an tomhaltóra a aithint agus le freagraí ar na laigí sin a chumadh. ní mór go mbeadh cearta an tomhaltóra i gcroílár reachtaíocht ar bith a mholtar amach anseo.
in writing. − the development of cross-border trade in the context of an enlarged internal market offers new opportunities to retailers and consumers but it also brings new challenges. new technologies can hinder the authorities’ ability to enforce consumer laws effectively in the internal market, and rogue traders can hide behind borders to target consumers in another member state. providing robust consumer protection and informing consumers about their rights will encourage cross-border shopping, with better choice and value. we must consider removing barriers to cross-border cooperation between enforcement agencies to allow them investigate and detect intra-eu infringements of consumer protection laws.
in writing. − i support this first-reading report on the proposal for a regulation on short-selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps. financial speculation has caused untold damage to the exchequers of those very states which scrambled to save the financial sector from the brink of destruction, at the expense of essential public services and social provision on which our citizens’ well-being depends. parliament is sending a very clear message to the council ahead of the negotiations to come on this piece of legislation: if investors do not own sovereign bonds, or assets whose value is tied to them, they should not be able to seek profit from defaults on debt they do not own by trading in sovereign credit default swaps. such speculative practices have no real economic utility, and they encourage betting on the failure of states to fulfil their obligations. i also welcome the proposed requirement that naked shorting be allowed only when, at the end of the trading day, the securities meant to be sold have at least been located and reserved.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin i leith sprioc de laghdú de 30% ar astaíochtaí carbóin a leagan síos don bhliain 2020. tá cur síos sa tuarascáil seo ar na buntáistí atá ann ó thaobh fostaíocht a chruthú. de réir staidéir a rinne rialtas na gearmáine, d’fhéadfaí 6 mhilliún post nua a chruthú san aontas eorpach a bhuí le laghdú de 30% ar astaíochtaí, agus is méadú de 0.6% sa bhliain ar ráta fáis gheilleagar na heorpa a bheadh mar thoradh air sin.
in writing. − i support this report, and would argue in favour of introducing a commitment to reduce europe's greenhouse gas emissions by up to 30% by 2020. europe must show its commitment to combating climate change. the best way to strengthen our hand in negotiations with other countries on the importance of fighting climate change is to have strong environmental protection measures in our own territories. this report would send a clear message that europe is serious about combating climate change. combating climate change is not only good for the environment, but can also lead to job creation and can have a positive effect on the eu economy. europe’s environmental industry currently boasts a eur 227 billion turnover and 3.4 million jobs. europe can be a leading light in the fight against climate change. adopting this report would help us on our way.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar catagóir idirmheánach a bhunú. d’fhéadfadh réigiún na teorann, lár tíre agus an iarthair (bmw as béarla) leas a bhaint as catagóir nua den chineál sin. faoi láthair, tá an réigiún sin beagáinín os cionn tairseach na 90%. dá nglacfaí mar thréimhse thagartha tréimhse ina gcuirtear na deacrachtaí eacnamaíocha atá in éirinn le tamall anuas san áireamh, tá seans maith ann go gcomhlíonfadh réigiún an bmw na critéir atá ann.
in writing. − i strongly support this report on social services of general interest (ssgis), and congratulate my colleague proinsias de rossa for having managed to bring new political momentum to a neglected dimension of european integration. social services of general interest, such as health services, care services for children, the elderly or other dependents, and other universally available services, are an essential part of the european social model. they play a key role in social cohesion and inclusion and in the realisation of the social rights recognised by the european charter of fundamental rights. however, they are faced with a number of constraints and with legal uncertainty, as the application of eu rules on the functioning of the single market, on public procurement and on state aids impinges upon their normal operation. the european court of justice has been called upon to adjudicate on this tension. there is an overwhelming stakeholder consensus on the need for commission action to address these problems. the weakening of ssgis through austerity measures is a false economy, as demonstrated by their role as automatic stabilisers which cushioned the impact of the crisis for the most vulnerable members of european societies. more than ever, we need affordable, universally available and good quality ssgis.
i scríbhinn. − tá an eoraip tiomanta do chearta an duine, do phrionsabail an daonlathais agus do riail an dlí a chur chun cinn agus dul chun cinn inmharthana na tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha á spreagadh. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le fás geilleagrach a spreagadh, tacaíocht a thabhairt do ghnóthais bheaga agus aghaidh a thabhairt ar neamhionannas ioncaim i dtíortha atá i mbéal forbartha. ní mór a chinntiú nach fás claonta a bhíonn i gceist agus ní mór go mbeadh beartais an ae ag dul chun leasa iadsan is boichte ar domhan. chuige seo, is uirlisí tábhachtachta iad na scéimeanna um mionchreidmheas agus micreamhaoiniú agus scéimeanna eile dá sórt. ní mór cearta maoine láidre a bhunú, deireadh a chur le gabháil neamhdhleathach talún agus le hamhantraíocht ar ábhair bheatha d’fhonn cumas acmhainní áitiúla a neartú chun sábháilteacht an tsoláthair bhia a áirithiú. is iad bunphrionsabail bheartas um fhorbairt an ae atá mar bhunchloch an aontais. ní mór go mbeadh cearta an duine, prionsabail an daonlathais agus riail an dlí i gcroílár na leasaithe polaitiúla sin a bhíonn fite fuaite leis an bhforbairt inmharthana uileghabhálach, má táthar chun spriocanna bheartas um fhorbairt an ae a bhaint amach.
i scríbhinn. − is í príomhaidhm na tuarascála ná beartas um fhorbairt an ae a dhíriú an athuair ar an bhfás uileghabhálach a spreagadh. is éard is mó atá i gceist le cúnamh airgeadais an ae ná an bhochtaineacht a chomhrac, í a laghdú agus, go fadtéarmach, í a dhíothú. ní foláir, in ainneoin na ndeacrachtaí eacnamaíocha atá san ae faoi láthair, go leanaimid linn ag tabhairt cúnaimh airgeadais agus pholaitiúil do bheartas láidir um fhorbairt choigríche.
a uachtaráin, cuireann an chuid is mó de na feisirí fáilte roimh na moltaí seo. ní haon ionadh é sin mar cabhraíonn sé le saoránaigh maidir leis an mbia a itheann siad. just a few points on these proposals. firstly, i think we have to be careful that smes in particular are not driven out of business in complying with regulations, to the benefit of multinationals. secondly, it was my pleasure to attend a national federation of women’s institutes breakfast meeting this morning, where they revealed some the results of a survey that they carried out. it was significant that 98% of respondents felt that country-of-origin labelling was necessary, but also over 50% of the respondents were not aware that country-of-origin labelling meant the country in which the product underwent the last significant change. there is a huge difference between something being reared in a country and being processed in a country. that certainly needs to be clarified, and a distinction made and the current practice ended.
in writing. – over the past generation in europe, obesity has been transformed from a potential health burden into a current health epidemic, leaning heavily on every health system across the eu. in this context, it is crucial that the eu should take measures to address this problem, both small and large, direct and indirect, both in hospitals – through thorough preparation for relevant health problems – and at the source through food information to consumers. while this report does not contain all the measures which i would like to see implemented – such as information on alcoholic drinks and traffic-light labelling –, it is an important start and will cause european consumers to think twice in future about what they eat on a daily basis and what it means for their health.
vice-president of the commission. − i am not a legal expert but, from what i know of this process, i would say that it will depend on the kind of asset to be privatised and the circumstances. in any case, if there are obligations to be fulfilled under the eu public procurement rules, those rules should apply. and if, because of the privatisation, there should be a merger that has an eu dimension, then it would be the direct responsibility of my services, as i am commissioner for competition, to analyse whether this merger complies with eu rules. this is not, of course, a legal answer, it is a political one. in any case, i think we could provide a much more precise answer about the eu laws, regulations and directives that would apply.
vice-president of the commission. − as the member correctly says, paragraph 74 of the commission decision on the nama case in 2009 includes a commitment from the irish authorities to report yearly on the use of some of the post-acquisition powers conferred on nama by the legislator. on 16 february this year, the commission received the first yearly report on the use of post-acquisition powers. we have not raised any concerns on the use of the aforementioned powers mentioned by nama for the period covered by this report. in addition to assessing the report on the use of post-acquisition powers, the commission follows nama’s operations closely, both directly and indirectly. as for direct monitoring, we have adopted two decisions in the period up to june 2011, one for each of the two first tranches of assets that have been transferred to nama and notified to the commission. these decisions stem from the commitment to notify each individual tranche of transfer assets set out in the aforementioned paragraph 74 of the decision and indirect monitoring is carried out through the assessment of the impact on the financial institutions participating in the nama scheme.
deputising for the author. − i want to apologise for mr mitchell, who might be leaving us shortly, as might ms mcguinness later, because both are going to be presidential candidates in the irish presidential election. can i say that i am very pleased with the reply that i have received from the commissioner? but what is crucially important is that the commission keeps its eye on the situation, because we are in the early stages of an experiment that we have never had before, in which stressed assets are being taken over by nama. what is crucially important is that the hospitality sector, with its multi-million euro hotels, which cost the irish taxpayer and the banks a lot of money, is kept under review and does not contravene the competition laws. so i am delighted that, in year one, nama is complying with the conditions and terms which were applied by the commission at the request of the irish government.
vice-president of the commission. − indeed i can assure the honourable member, and also mr mitchell, with whom i recently had the opportunity of discussing these issues in dublin, that we will indeed monitor very closely the operations of nama. we know how important it is and the huge volume of assets and resources that they have to manage, and that there is a lot at risk for irish taxpayers. at the same time we are looking very closely at the individual cases of restructuring of the banks that benefited from this outsourcing of the bad assets towards nama. we decided last week on the liquidation of anglo irish and inbs; we are waiting until the end of this month of july for the reception of the restructuring plans both of allied irish banks and bank of ireland, according to the programme that ireland subscribed to with the eu, the imf and the ecb, and we will look very closely at those restructuring plans. hopefully this will pave the way for the sustainability of the banking sector in ireland, which is one of the necessary conditions for the recovery of its economy.
like mr mitchell and ms mcguinness, i too was a prospective candidate, but said i would stay here with my colleague mr higgins, so i withdrew from the race. my question is as follows: it is strongly rumoured in ireland that nama-owned hotels are undercutting non-nama hotels and will possibly put them out of business. is the commission aware of this and, if so, what action does it propose should be taken to alleviate that situation?
vice-president of the commission. − it is not our responsibility to look at every case of the management of assets by nama. that is impossible. this is a good question to be addressed to the irish authorities in the irish parliament. we have to monitor the development of the functioning of nama on a yearly basis. if you address me this question in the light of the report that nama will submit to us and that we will assess regarding the operations that nama is managing this year, maybe i will be able to answer your question ex-post next year. however, i cannot give you a precise answer on every kind of asset that is being managed right now by nama. i would recommend that you tell your colleagues to put this question in the irish parliament, which will have much more information than i do.
vice-president of the commission. − as mr gallagher has pointed out, the commission has recently expressed some concerns about the situation regarding competition in the banking sector in ireland. i myself expressed these concerns over the medium term. as you know, on 31 march the irish minister of finance announced the government’s plans regarding the future of the irish banking sector. in particular the minister announced the merger of allied irish banks with ebs. the allied irish banks and the bank of ireland are now the two pillar banks in ireland. this decision by the present irish minister of finance, mr noonan, has been endorsed by the imf, the ecb and the commission. the commission also sees the rationale for the merger of allied and ebs, as it clearly serves a financial stability purpose in the short term, which in the current climate is an advantage. what is a matter of concern – and i personally express this concern – is the situation of the irish retail banking market in the medium to long term. for financial and stability reasons and because of what has happened with other financial institutions in ireland – i have just mentioned that allied irish banks is in liquidation and we decided on this liquidation process last week – in the short term there is no alternative other than to base the functioning of the banking sector in ireland on these two pillars – allied irish banks and the bank of ireland. but this situation should not mean that over the medium term the barriers to entering into the banking sector in ireland will increase because of the short-term situation of a de facto duopoly. we will be monitoring very closely to ensure these barriers to entry will not be increased and we will carefully encourage other players to enter into the irish banking system gradually. in the short term there is probably no alternative to the present situation but in a few years – hopefully – the situation will improve and will be completely different from the present one. in that case, maintaining a duopoly would present a serious risk for competition and in real terms for the citizens of ireland, who will require a competitive, dynamic and efficient banking sector.
i want to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive response. can i ask the commissioner to provide an update as to when a final decision will be taken on the ordinary liquidation of anglo irish and irish nationwide? he referred to our finance minister, mr noonan, and his announcement in march. you will be aware that in the united states, in washington, he announced his intention to impose losses on eur 3.2 billion of senior unsecured guaranteed bonds. what is the commission’s view? can the commissioner confirm that the commission supports this plan?
vice-president of the commission. − we clearly support the liability management that is taking place with subordinated bondholders. the question of the senior bondholders is a different one given that, because of the way the decisions were taken in the recent past at the beginning of the crisis, these senior bondholders have a strong state guarantee. so, one way or another, the taxpayers are supporting their interests. in this case i can share the concerns that have been expressed, among others, by the president of the ecb about the negative consequences that the imposition of this kind of haircut on the senior bondholders can have. but i praise the exercise of the liability management with subordinated debt bondholders. in such cases – with anglo irish or in other cases – as in all the other financial institutions which are under restructuring because of the consequences of the financial crisis and the intervention of the state giving public resources for the rescue and restructuring of those banks, we are always taking decisions that will try to distribute the burden of the operation in a fair way. this is one of the three elements that we always take into account when analysing the restructuring plans that are submitted to the commission and when adopting our own decisions.
thank you, commissioner, for your very comprehensive reply and your understanding of the banking situation in ireland. in particular i welcome your comments that you are encouraging other players to enter the irish market. at present we have a number of banks in the irish market, for example kbc, who are doing very well indeed. can i ask the commission if it would have any objection to the establishment of a further irish domestic bank? this is because, like in greece, there is a lot of private money in ireland. it is a case of setting down new terms, new standards, new protocols and new conditions. so would the commission have any objection if a whole new irish bank – or several irish banks – were to emerge in the market to avail of the capital that is there?
commissioner, you said that other players would be encouraged to enter the irish banking market. can you be a little bit more precise about that? what exactly do you mean by encouraging them? what steps would you see as appropriate for that? secondly, you said that because of earlier decisions, the bank guarantee, etc., we could not now impose haircuts on senior bondholders. your argument here is the existence of earlier guarantees, yet, at the same time, we have angela merkel saying that post-2013 there will be burden-sharing. so it seems to me that we are in an interim phase at the moment, and i would just like your comments on that please.
deputising for the author. − i am beginning to feel more and more like a super-substitute. i hope that normal service will resume once the presidential race is over. the emphasis in this issue is on competition, as the commissioner has said. would the commission not agree that the victims in all of this are the small farmers who have limited cash flow and the small retail outlets that are increasingly being squeezed out of business by the multinationals and the big retail chains? what does the commission propose to do to get a proper balance between the two? would the commissioner, who has been very forthcoming, not agree that, once the huge supermarket chains achieve total dominance and get a stranglehold on the retail market, the two groups that are really squeezed are the producers, particularly small producers, on the one hand, and the consumers on the other hand?
you will note that both ms mcguinness and mr mitchell asked mr higgins to take their questions. i hope he did not promise both of them that he was going to vote for them next saturday. he wouldn’t do that. now, moving on to the question, the last few words in ms mcguinness’s question concern unfair commercial practices that undoubtedly exist. one of those is ‘hello money’, and that is being dealt with in the programme for government. the other practice, supported by a lot of anecdotal evidence, is the fact that multinational companies moving to a town first sell at very low prices to eliminate smes, local businesses and so forth, and then raise prices again. is the commission aware of this? what would they suggest could be done to eliminate it?
vice-president of the commission. − the member state is obliged to send us the information we requested. if, after the normal deadline, the information has not reached dg competition, we will request it on an informal basis. then, after waiting for a prudent amount of time, we can decide to send an injunction obliging the bulgarian authorities to send us the information.
vice-president of the commission. − regulation (ec) no 561/2006 does not prevent drivers from working longer than 30 hours per week. normal weekly driving time is 45 hours averaged over two consecutive weeks and 56 hours as a maximum. similarly working time directive 2002/15/ec allows for a maximum of 60 hours of weekly working time, provided that the average of 48 hours per week is respected. in fact driving a bus on regular routes shorter than 50 kilometres is a transport operation which does not fall within the scope of the regulation. consequently the provision on the obligatory weekly rest specified in the regulation does not concern such drivers. member states are obliged, however, to establish national protection rules for such drivers with regard to the permitted driving times, mandatory breaks and rest areas.
i am very pleased to hear what the commissioner says but unfortunately the road safety authority in ireland does not agree with what he has just said. correct me if i am wrong, but i understand that where a driver’s weekday routes are less than 50 kilometres long he does not fall under the regulation from monday to friday. however, because on a saturday his route would be longer than that, it is my understanding that he then does fall under the regulation. the driver in such a case does five to six hours per day, five days a week but, because he may drive eight to nine hours on a saturday, according to the road safety authority in ireland he cannot start work at 8 a.m. the following monday morning. commissioner, perhaps i have this wrong and perhaps the road safety authority has it wrong but i really would like clarification on it from you. i accept what you have said and i am very pleased to hear it, but i am just not sure.
in writing. – this important report aims at improving road safety and abolishing the impunity of non-resident drivers in the eu. incredibly, some 100 people a day die on europe's roads. we simply must act decisively to improve road safety. eu studies show that respecting the rules of the road would result in 33% fewer road deaths. at present, 75% of road deaths are caused by four offences: speeding, breaking red lights, failure to use seatbelts and drink-driving. indeed, eu statistics suggest that non-resident drivers account for 5% of traffic but for some 15% of speeding offences. however, most go unpunished because member state authorities are unable to pursue drivers once they return home. this report approves a system for exchanging information between member states to enable follow-up on road-safety-related traffic offences committed by non-resident drivers. unfortunately, the previous fianna fáil government chose not to participate in the drafting of this directive. however, i'm pleased to say that the new government is now carefully considering opting in to the new system.
madam president, i support the compromises reached in this report, in particular the country-of-origin labelling, because we are extending country-of-origin labelling to meat from pigs, poultry and sheep. i think it is really important. citizens want this information and they want it presented in a clear and unambiguous way. we have strict rules in the european union regarding traceability from farm to fork. we have strict rules regarding protection of the environment and we have strict rules on ensuring animal welfare. consumers demand this from their producers and i think it is essential that they are easily able to identify country of origin in order to make informed choices when they spend their money. also, we have committed to examining within two years the possible extension of compulsory country-of-origin labelling to meat that is used as an ingredient. i believe it is an important step in ensuring clear and unambiguous information to consumers when they are purchasing processed foods.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo mar feictear domsa go bhfuil sé ríthábhachtach an mhinicíocht de dhíobhálacha marfacha agus tromchúiseacha a laghdú go mór, agus feabhas a chur le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre. tá mé buíoch de bhean uí ayala sender as an tsár-obair atá déanta aici maidir leis an tuarascáil seo. caithfimid, mar eorpaigh, oibriú as lámha a chéile agus líon na mbásanna ar an mbóthar a laghdú. is gné mhór in imbhuailtí tráchta ar bhóithre na heorpa é an róluas nó luas, a bheith ag tiomáint faoi thionchar an óil agus ag tiomáint gan chrios sábhála. tá fadhb mhór againne freisin le tiománaithe nach ngéilleann do shoilse dearga nó nach bhfuil meas acu orthu. cé nach bhfuil éire ag glacadh páirte sa treoir seo, tá mé dóchasach agus muiníneach go mbeidh sí páirteach nuair a bheas an treoir seo curtha i bhfeidhm. tá mé i dteagmháil leis an aire iompair in éirinn faoi seo, agus tá mé muiníneach go mbeimid in ann é a ghlacadh.
madam president, we are still living with the legacy of the 9/11 attack on the twin towers in new york. we can never, ever compromise security because of the fact that we are only one day away from the next atrocity. one of the problems faced by the travelling public is the delays that are incurred at airports – every airport – in going through security. mr de grandes pascual’s report addresses this by virtue of the fact that it gets the balance right. firstly, it will speed up the passage of passengers through security – because it is only a matter of seconds – and, secondly, it will ensure personal integrity, because the moment that the actual image has been taken, the image will be destroyed. also, from the point of view of the danger to public health, it deals with the issue of ionising radiation. the radiation exposure represents merely 2% of that of radiation treatment or an x-ray. so it is a good report, but the important thing is that it is not left lying on a commission desk gathering dust. we should implement this.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil a lán moltaí maithe i dtuarascáil berès caithfidh mé a rá go raibh orainne, feisirí fhine gael, san epp staonadh ag an vóta deireanach agus míneoidh mé an chúis anois. taxation is a matter of subsidiarity and we feel that talk of tax harmonisation at this stage, while it may be idealistic, is premature, especially as we in ireland are in the midst of an imf-eu bail-out, and for the eu part of that bail-out we are paying what we consider to be draconian interest rates. this is recognised by the european parliament and by the commission, including commissioner rehn and president barroso. but we cannot get a reduction because at council level some member states want to have a quid pro quo – a reduction of interest rates if we give up our right to set our own corporation tax rate. this is contrary to the spirit of subsidiarity and it is also contrary to the spirit of solidarity which is supposed to exist in the european union.
in writing. − it is crucially important that europe invests in high quality broadband, and maintains our position at the upper ends of the technology and infrastructure markets. for this reason i supported this vote.
in writing. − the provision of high-speed broadband coverage for all by 2013 is an integral part of the european commission’s digital agenda strategy. it is critical that the most remote and disadvantaged regions in europe are not ignored by the european commission as they pursue this objective. the european commission must ensure that all member states reach this important target, which is vital for growth and jobs.
in writing. − i welcome this report on broadband in europe, as widespread coverage of high-quality, high-speed broadband networks across the eu is essential to build up europe’s competitiveness, research and innovation potential and to foster social and territorial cohesion. broadband underpins new information and communication technologies, such as cloud computing or the internet of things, which will help determine the future of industrial innovation. we need consistent research investment in fixed and mobile icts in europe. the european territory should be fully covered by 2013 and, in order to ensure that the digital agenda target of universal access at speeds of no less than 30 mbps by 2020 is met, intermediate benchmarks should be set for earlier dates. the radio spectrum has to be managed in such a way as to allow low frequency bands to provide wide wireless coverage in rural areas, islands and mountains. those with reduced mobility, disabilities and those living and doing business in isolated areas would enjoy new opportunities which only a combination of public and private investment strategies can bring about. the digital agenda has immense potential for growth, enhanced productivity and inclusion, as well as more integrated information in fields such as education, health and public administration.
in writing. − personal data is a crucial area and one which must be scrutinised closely. while security concerns exist, the privacy of european citizens is also of paramount importance and it is important that both the european parliament and european commission keep this in mind at all times.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór go mbeadh tomhaltóirí ar an eolas maidir le réigiún táirgthe agus fáis an bhia atá á cheannach acu, agus go mbeadh eolas soiléir ar fáil faoin mbia sin. vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála, agus fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil ann maidir leis an lipéadú éigeantach maidir le tír thionscnaimh táirgí a leathnú chun go mbeadh muiceoil, caoireoil agus sicín úr san áireamh. faoi láthair, tá sé éigeantach lipéadú maidir le tír thionscnaimh a bheith ar mhairteoil úr, ar thorthaí agus glasraí, ar mhill agus ar ola olóige, agus cuirtear tomhaltóirí ar strae go minic nuair nach bhfuil eolas soiléir ann maidir le tír thionscnaimh earra. tá bia atá ar ardchaighdeán, atá slán le hithe agus a chloíonn le reachtaíocht maidir le caomhnú an chomhshaoil agus le leas ainmhithe á tháirgeadh ag feirmeoirí na heorpa. cabhraíonn lipéadú maidir le tír thionscnaimh na n-earraí atá á ndíol ar mhargadh an ae le tomhaltóirí rogha eolasach a dhéanamh agus feoil úr agus táirgí eile á gceannach acu.
in writing. − this issue is one which is of central importance to me and many of my colleagues on the envi committee. while this report does not include all of the provisions which i would have liked, such as traffic light labels on food, the measures which will be implemented will be a definite improvement on that which currently exists in many member states.
in writing. − i supported this report, which seeks to improve the food information available to consumers. it will now soon be mandatory throughout the eu to include information on how much sugar, salt, fat and other key nutrients a product contains. this report also introduces country-of-origin labelling for fresh lamb, pork, goat and poultry, just as we have already for beef, fish, fruit and vegetables. it also obliges the commission to produce a report and possible legislation on the origin of meat in processed food within two years. however, we must continue to fight for more transparency and for an eu-wide ban on added trans fats, similar to that currently on the statute books in denmark and austria. trans fats are often added unnecessarily to processed foods even though they can increase the risk of a whole range of problems including obesity, heart disease, infertility and alzheimer’s disease. this report ensures that the commission will investigate the problem and report back within three years. disappointingly, however, nutritional labelling will only be mandatory on the back of the pack and not on the front. if we are serious about tackling some of our major health issues we should give consumers the information they need to quickly identify healthy choices.
in writing. − i welcome this regulation, which supports consumers’ entitlement to accurate information about the food they eat and where it comes from. i especially welcome the provisions relating to the country of origin. while the origin of certain foods such as beef, honey, olive oil and fresh fruit and vegetables must already be shown on labels, these new rules will extend them to other foods. this regulation is also good news for allergy sufferers, as all ingredients – including allergenic substances – must be indicated on the labels of pre-packed foods. without proper labelling, allergy sufferers may buy a product containing harmful ingredients without realising it. i also welcome the proposal for information on allergens to be given on food sold in restaurants or canteens. this information must be provided in a clear and consistent manner and must be easily understood by people. the provision of such information will allow consumers to make better-informed and healthier choices.
in writing. − while it is unfortunate that certain countries have opted out of this measure, it is important that europe takes measures such as this to target road offences and reduce the loss of life on roads across the eu through proper implementation of sanctions.
in writing. − recent figures from eurostat state that road fatalities in ireland fell by 16% in 2010 and have decreased by 51% over the last ten years. this is a real improvement; however, every effort must be made to further reduce the number of fatalities on our roads.
in writing. − i welcome this directive and expect that it will have a deterrent effect on driver behaviour, as drivers will know they are not exempt from driving safety laws across europe. the consistent enforcement of penalties for traffic offences is an important element in improving road safety. financial penalties for certain road traffic offences are often not enforced if those offences are committed in a vehicle registered outside the state. eu figures also suggest a non-resident driver is three times more likely to commit an offence than a resident driver. also, while foreign drivers account for 5% of traffic, they account for 15% of speeding offences. while ireland is not automatically bound by legislation enacted in the area of freedom, security and justice, the irish government has indicated it will give careful consideration to opting into this directive.
in writing. − this report relates to the changes to the legal procedure for adopting the eu budget as a result of entry in force of the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty sets a special legislative procedure for the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, that is, unanimity in the council after the european parliament has given its consent (via the majority of its component members).
in writing. − i fully support measures to improve gender equality in the workplace, in particular action to reduce the so-called gender pay gap which exists between men and women.
in writing. − i abstained on the ‘women and business leadership’ report. i subscribe to the fact that women are being discriminated against when it comes to taking leadership positions in companies and business, and i also argue for the existing gender wage gap to be removed. the principle of equal pay for equal work must be defended by the trade union movement. despite the progress achieved by the women’s and trade union movement on women’s rights, women still carry the biggest share of domestic tasks, childcare and care for elderly or ill members of the family. this has adverse affects on their careers and pension rights. women, more than men, work in low wage sectors and are subject to employers’ flexibility demands. i am in favour of more women in leadership positions. however, i do not support the idea that a bigger share of female ceos will contribute towards genuine equality between men and women. as long as companies are functioning in the interests of accumulating more profit for the few, ceos’ decisions generally – whether taken by a man or a woman – will impact negatively on the interests of the workforce, and women will continue to face extra hardships.
in writing. − ireland is geographically a ‘peripheral’ country in europe. a low corporate tax rate is a tool to address the economic limitations that come with being a peripheral country. in this regard, we voted to oppose measures in this report proposing the introduction of a ccctb and strongly condemn recommendations for the allocation of eu funds to be based on the taxation strategy of the member states and their willingness to cooperate on closer tax cooperation. measures of this nature are contrary to the ethos of the eu and the right of member states to determine their own taxation structures. secondly, a well financed eu budget is essential for delivering on the eu 2020 objectives. it is the foundation for increasing the competitiveness of the eu and is central to the long term success of the cap. however, as member states are faced with increasing demands on their national budgets, it is essential that a fair balance is found in financing the eu budget. in this regard, we support the recommendations contained in the draft multi-annual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 published by the european commission on the 29th of june last.
in writing. − it is of crucial importance that the eu takes the requisite measures to tackle the financial, economic and social crisis, and return both the union and each member state to growth and stability. it is also of crucial importance that each member state is given the independence to set their own tax rates on corporation taxes and all connected charges and rates. while i supported this resolution as a whole, i do not support a common consolidated corporate tax base or any other form of european involvement in setting the corporate tax rates (or connected charges and measures) of member states.
mr president, i would like to ask how the speaker can possibly describe a peaceful flotilla – which i participated in along with two other meps – bringing humanitarian aid, medicine and reconstruction material to gaza, as a provocation? how can he justify the sabotage by the israeli regime of the irish ship and of the greek and scandinavian ship that put the lives of 20, 30 or 40 people in danger – actions that, in my opinion, were carried out by the israeli state?
mr president, brutal repression is being used to maintain a corrupt dictatorship in bahrain. dozens of people have been killed and thousands have been injured. forty-seven doctors and nurses, including some trained in ireland, now face military trial and are suffering torture. they are guilty only of treating those injured by the regime. the united states’ supposed support for democracy in the middle east, about which we heard so much, has hastily been dropped and replaced by support for this brutal monarchy. this is because of bahrain’s strategic location and the presence there of the us navy fifth fleet. us and eu-made weapons are being used to kill peaceful protestors. disgracefully, bahrain has taken a libel action against robert fisk and the independent newspaper for daring to tell the truth about the brutal repression that has been unleashed. in my opinion, the eu should cancel its cooperation agreement with the gulf cooperation council. i demand an end to the oppression, and the immediate release of all opposition activists and imprisoned doctors, and i call for a united movement of workers and the poor to overthrow the dictatorship and create a democratic workers’ and poor people’s government.
mr president, there is a continued occupation by israel of palestinian territory beyond the 1967 borders, and a failure to find mutual agreement on final status issues, which would end the conflict between these two proud peoples. untie that knot and you release the potential of the arab spring. palestinians are entitled to their own democratic state; to have their sovereignty respected by israel and by the world; and to be secure from attack. these are principles that the european union and the united states endorse in practice for israel, but only in principle for palestine. as democrats, we have an obligation to support the implementation of these rights for palestinians too. there is no contradiction between starting negotiations on final status issues while acknowledging these principles in practice for palestine at the united nations in september. the two things could, in fact, be mutually reinforcing. lady ashton, i welcome your strenuous efforts to get negotiations back on track and i wish you success for your initiative with the quartet on the middle east next monday. gazans need more than humanitarian aid. they need a normal life, they need jobs and they need to be released from their open-air prison, and achieving these things would, i believe, ensure their support for a negotiated settlement. as regards hamas, i urge the quartet to listen carefully to the 24 former prime ministers, former ministers and peace negotiators – some of whom participated in the northern ireland process – who have urged it to consider the conditions it has applied to hamas as goals rather than preconditions. they have advocated that, at least to start negotiations with hamas, it should be sufficient that they adhere to a ceasefire and to the principle of non-violence.
madam president, firstly thank you for giving me time to speak. i was somewhat disappointed that i did not get speaking time for my group as i was a co-signatory to this resolution, and particularly instrumental in amendments 17 and 18. they refer to the situation in bahrain. coming from ireland, we have a particular affinity with the medical staff there because many of them were trained in our country. now we find that, when they are carrying out their duty and trying to attend to the sick and the injured in the protests, they themselves have been arrested, subjected to military trials and in some cases subjected to torture to get various confessions out of them. this is contrary to all normal standards in war or peace, and certainly contrary to the geneva convention. we call today for an end to this practice and for the release of all medical staff who have been impounded since the start of the protests. finally, i just want to thank the polish presidency for their free gifts of strawberries – which were scrumptious.
madam president, first of all i want to thank the high representative for her work in the arab world, as we describe it, but in particular for her interventions in bahrain on behalf of those whose human rights have been violated and who have been subjected to inhumane treatment and torture. i welcome her statement today on the disgraceful treatment of doctors and medics in bahrain. i think the total disregard for medical neutrality is just staggering. so many ngos – such as human rights watch, doctors without borders or physicians for human rights – have documented numerous cases of torture in hospitals and medical centres in bahrain. it is unacceptable anywhere but i think it is doubly so in a medical facility. we have the national dialogue, but that is doomed to failure because the composition of the group that is conducting this dialogue. but the recent initiative by king hamad on the independent and investigative commission might offer some possibilities. but, as the high representative said earlier, we need to continue to call on the bahraini government to end unlawful detention and ensure the human rights of all their citizens.
i scríbhinn. – is léir ó fhigiúirí an chláir eorpaigh do na daoine is díothaí go bhfuil an clár thar a bheith tábhachtach don 43 mhilliún duine san ae atá i bpriacal na bochtaineachta bia. cuireann an clár cúnamh bia ar fáil i 19 bhallstát do 13 mhilliún duine atá beo bocht agus tá 240 banc agus carthanas bainteach leis. ós rud é gurb é ceann de chuspóirí straitéis 2020 an ae an bhochtaineacht a laghdú san ae, ní mór go mbeadh tacaíocht láidir ann don scéim seo, go háirithe agus an ghéarchéim eacnamaíoch ag cur leis an mbrú atá cheana féin orthu siúd is leochailí san ae. bíonn bia atá ar ardchaighdeán á tháirgeadh ag feirmeoirí na heorpa agus is é mo bharúil féin gur buntáiste suntasach don ae é go bhfuil an comhbheartas talmhaíochta (cbt) in ann bia folláin a chur ar fáil dóibh siúd san ae a bhfuil deacrachtaí sóisialta agus eacnamaíocha acu. cé go bhfuil mórán daoine ann a bhíonn ag ceistiú an róil shóisialta seo atá ag an cbt agus an ae, creidim go bhfuil dualgas ar an ae gnéithe uile na mbeartas cosúil leis an cbt a fhorbairt d’fhonn cabhrú leo siúd nach bhfuil mórán buntáistí acu.
a uachtaráin, ag caint go pearsanta, táim i gcoinne na moltaí maidir le 25 fheisire bhreise, cé go bhfuil a lán moltaí maithe eile ag an uasal duff. this is the perfect own goal, absolutely. the suggestion that we should have 25 extra meps for europe, with no constituency – elected by everybody but answerable to nobody – makes no sense whatsoever. we cannot allow such a situation to exist, particularly in a time of recession. for instance, in my country we are reducing the numbers in parliament, abolishing the second house, and our number of meps have been reduced from 15 to 13 and then to 12. but now we are talking about creating 25 extra members of parliament. it makes absolutely no sense; it must be resisted. we have to look at ways to make ourselves more relevant to the citizens, not less relevant.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús comhghairdeas a dhéanamh le mo chomharsa béal dorais, martin kastler anseo, as ucht an tuarascáil bhreá a chuir sé romhainn agus na moltaí atá ann. bhí áthas orm cuidiú leis inniu. it is good that people’s lives are stretched out longer, as previous speakers have mentioned, but that poses both a problem and also, of course, a challenge. the problem it poses is in relation, particularly, to pension funds and the retirement age, etc.: whether there should be voluntary retirement, compulsory retirement or, perhaps, phased retirement. these are issues that need to be looked at very carefully over the next number of years. having an opportunity next year to focus on active ageing will give us that opportunity. i certainly think it is opportune. tá súil agam freisin go mbeidh buiséad ann, mar a dúirt martin kastler anseo, chun go mbeimid in ann na gníomhartha atá luaite aige a dhéanamh.
mr president, i am pleased to follow mr hannan once again – but not, of course in his attitude to the european union. in fact i think it is good that we have been discussing this today, because i think the european union – uniquely – has an opportunity to influence the growth of democracy and human rights on the world stage that major powers such as the usa, the ussr (now russia), china, etc., cannot do, because they would be seen to be taking care of their own vested interests, whereas we can be seen to be more objective. it is only right that we should put human rights at the forefront of our policies and, especially in this report, highlight the need for equality amongst the sexes and especially the treatment of women in so many countries around the world. it is not right, it is not fair, it is not human and certainly it is not utilising the great resource that is there to allow women to develop in terms of business, in terms of peace-making, etc. these matters are highlighted; i agree with them, and i think we have a lot to offer to the world in that regard.
in writing. − i am pleased that next year will be designated the european year for active ageing. this measure will serve to promote vitality, dignity and solidarity between generations.
in writing. − i support this report on eu external policies in support of democratisation, while highlighting at the same time the need for a new european approach to this end. the eu needs to overhaul its approach to promoting democracy in the world while simultaneously placing values, coherence and a genuine culture of results at the heart of the project. doing so requires an inclusive and more coherent policy that merges together the various external policy spheres, a central role for the european parliament and evaluations of the different instruments in accordance with the results they produce, not simply how they operate. we must value the important role social movements have played in the recent revolutions within the arab world. support from europe for civil society and trade unions, mutual societies, political parties, associations of women and young people, farmers’ groups, ngos, social movements and activists must be stepped up in order to enable them to become better organised. the new european external action service, through detailed knowledge of conditions on the ground, should serve to identify these. moreover, there must be a firm emphasis on freedom and protection for the media as well as on social, cultural and political rights.
in writing. − the european commission estimates that 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food poverty. this report calls on the european commission to reverse a proposal to cut food aid to the most deprived persons living in the eu.
in writing. − i fully support this report on mine action. the mine ban treaty and the convention on cluster munitions are key components of international law in this respect.
a uachtaráin, is scannalach, tragóideach, uafásach agus truamhéalach an scéal é seo. agus arís, is iad na mná a fhulaingíonn an chuid is mó de. this area has been described as the rape capital of the world. that is not a soubriquet that its citizens can be proud of, but it is probably true, because there is the rape of natural resources, which is destroying the wealth of the country and continuing the poverty cycle, and then the rape of women and children. in particular, from 10 to 12 june, 170 women were raped. that is outlandish. the consequences for them, and for the children born as a result, are unbelievable. we therefore have to do everything in our power to try and bring some sense to bear on the situation, and particularly to get the government there to make the fight against rape a national priority, to combat impunity and eventually to bring the perpetrators to justice.
madam president, members have given a very good overview of the situation in indonesia, and no doubt indonesia has made rapid progress in recent years, with growing economic power, and will be looking forward to having a more comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the european union. all that makes sense, but concomitant with that, there has to be recognition of human rights and particularly the rights of religious minorities, not just in theory but in practice. legislation that is used to discriminate against religious minorities must be revoked and those who engage in these activities must be brought to justice, otherwise the problems will continue and the fanatics will have their way. this cannot be the situation. indonesia has only a little way to go to become an example to the rest of the world and to be a real partner with the european union, going forward in every possible way.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, with which we can all concur in the broader sense. i think this debate gets really interesting when we speak about specific raw materials. i would like to endorse mrs de lange’s comments on the use of phosphorus: how it is in decline and is finite in supply, and how we need to look again at how we will produce food – not just within the european union but globally – given the circumstances of that single raw material which is crucial to food production. but there are many others. your report did take on board some of the comments of the committee on agriculture, and i thank you for that, but i do think that when it comes to the three-pillar approach it does not mention agriculture and food. it talks specifically about other acquis and industries, and i think that is a mistake. one of the most crucial areas, in my view, for the world and also for the european union, is food security. we need raw materials to produce food, and many of those that go into food production, into the land, are scarce and in short supply. we need a strategy to ensure that we can continue to have agriculture within the eu.
a uachtaráin, is maith an rud é go bhfuilimid ag díriú ar an ábhar seo, mar gan dabht ar bith gan straitéis chiallmhar maidir le bunábhair ní féidir linn mórán a dhéanamh. fiú amháin dá mbeadh an bainisteoir peile is fearr ar domhan agat, ní bhuafadh sé mórán gan an bunábhar – is é sin peileadóirí maithe – a bheith aige. is é an rud céanna é le tionscail agus mar sin de. therefore the rapporteur is to be complimented on a very practical and necessary report, because if europe is to remain competitive in the world, then it is absolutely vital that we have a constant source of raw materials. firstly, we must look at the raw materials sources within our own boundaries and certainly not inhibit their development by being over-restrictive. sometimes i think we have been somewhat restrictive in the past. secondly, we obviously want to be environmentally friendly and so forth – everybody agrees with that – but also we can do an awful lot in terms of recycling. recycling is something that is in many respects in its infancy, and any material that is recycled can of course be used over and over again and this means that less basic raw materials are required. thirdly, something which has been mentioned by a number of people, rare earths are absolutely vital. it is said that china controls 97% of rare earths and, as previous speakers pointed out, they are so essential now for so many appliances we use in everyday life that this situation certainly needs to be addressed. therefore we have not much time to waste. we have to be competitive and remain competitive, and this is a strategy to do so. my compliments to the rapporteur.
mr president, ten years ago yesterday, 2 983 innocent people died in the horrific attack on the new york world trade center. this led to a huge outpouring of sympathy for the united states throughout the world. the attack was motivated by a fanatical hatred of everything western by the muslims. muslim leader osama bin laden saw the attack as the stark holy war, the destruction of the west and worldwide islamic domination throughout. the response by president bush was a crusade: a crusade, a war on terrorism, the invasion of afghanistan in search of bin laden, the invasion of iraq in search of non-existent weapons of mass destruction. the atrocities carried out, the number of killings, turned the world, which was pro-america, and pro-american sentiment into anti-united states condemnation. let us hope that yesterday’s ceremonies will renew all our determination to move forward, to build bridges, hope that peoples’ uprisings across north africa will change the outcome and hope, last but by no means least, that any change that happens will come from within and not from the outside.
mr president, i want to raise a case that has been brought to my attention: that of an irish citizen detained in sri lanka, a mr jayasundaram. he was arrested there in september 2007 and, although no warrant was issued or charges brought against him, he was accused of providing support to the militant liberalisation group ltte. it is a matter of grave concern that no evidence of this charge was ever provided. he has been moved from prison to prison and has suffered from several medical complaints throughout his detention. in 2008, the working group on arbitrary detention found that his detention was arbitrary and in direct violation of both the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. they also advised that any laws or measures taken to combat terrorism must comply with all obligations under international law. despite the best efforts of the honorary consul of the republic of ireland in sri lanka and our department of foreign affairs and various human rights organisations, he still remains in detention. i believe this house should be aware of that.
mr president, i have listened here for the past two years to much controversy about the canadian oil sands, with many people advocating that we should not import any oil from canada. this is something that i think has aggrieved canadians because they feel they are misrepresented. during the summer i had the privilege of visiting alberta, where the oil sands are mainly located, as part of the european energy forum. there we could see at first hand the working of the mines, both open-cast mines and in-situ mines. we also had access to all sides of the industry, including environmentalists. that openness is something that you would maybe not find in other regimes from whom we are very pleased to import oil, some of them totalitarian and totally undemocratic and who use the money to bolster their own regimes. so all i am saying is that we should look at it with an open mind and then make a decision subsequently.
mr president, on the role of auditors, ireland has certainly had some difficult experience. i quote the chairman of our national asset management agency, frank ryan, who controversially questioned the auditing role of accountants in the run-up to the collapse of banks which were transferring billions of bad and doubtful loans to an asset management agency. he said that it was hardly credible for auditors to say that it is not their responsibility to draw attention to significant risks that may become evident in the course of audits, such as for instance the extraordinary concentration of risk that developed at a number of irish financial institutions between 2004 and 2007. we certainly need to examine very carefully the role and the work of auditors and we will need to change the rules. i compliment commissioner barnier on his observations last night on the concentration of power in the hands of a very few audit companies.
mr president, first of all the title of this proposal perhaps gives the impression that the crisis is over: ‘lessons from the crisis’. unfortunately, at this point in time we do not know whether we are at the beginning of the crisis, in the middle of it, or at the end. obviously the sooner it finishes the better, and there are, of course, lessons to be learned, in particular in relation to the topic of auditing. my colleague, mrs mcguinness, outlined the irish view on that, and i concur with it. on the broader front, i want to welcome the speech by the polish president, and i think we need more of that type of positive outlook so that – as he said – not only can we get over the crisis but we must also ensure permanent stability. that is what we have to aim for. a awful lot of work has to be done to ensure that we get out of this crisis and stay out of it for ever.
mr president, this report is useful as it sets out very clearly the situation of women approaching retirement age, but it does so in a way which may ghettoise the subject and therefore fail to bring it into the wider public discussion. i very much welcome the idea that next year will be designated ‘the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations’. this issue is a problem for younger women, and indeed younger men, because we will need to have someone to look after us as we grow old, as will they when they grow old. for that very reason, if this report highlights the matter it will have done a good job. i do not think that there are easy solutions. society needs to have a very careful conversation about what we regard as our entitlements as we grow old and what society is willing to pay to allow us to have those entitlements. as we deal with austerity, that may be a very difficult debate, but this report will at least begin it.
mr president, a lot of the figures in this report are well known, for example the average gender pay gap being 17.5%, but i must say i was absolutely astonished to read that in the 50-59 age group – which is my own – the average earnings of women were just 67.5% that of men – approximately two-thirds of what men earn. i found this a frightening figure because not only does it mean that women in this age group are significantly less well off than men, it has huge implications for their pensions. in other words, it means that they are more likely to suffer poverty in old age. the report also talks about interruptions to the careers of women for caring duties, etc., and i would not like to think that i live in a society that acquiesces in the fact that when women take time off to care where it is needed, they are more likely to suffer poverty in old age. i have to say i respectfully disagree with my colleague, mr rohde, who talks about equal opportunities. if it was as simple as that, i do not think we would have the problem we have now.
mr president, this is a useful and important report because our businesses need raw materials, but i would suggest that one of the key raw materials that has not been discussed in this report is land. this does not just concern our food security needs, but also energy and climate issues. one of the growing concerns globally is the issue of land grabbing, where major global powers buy land in the developing world, which perhaps has negative consequences for those who are living there and their dependants. i think the issue of land availability and land use is crucial within the european union, but it is also crucial for the developing world and for europe’s development aid policy. it is part of the issue of raw materials because in many cases the land holds the raw materials we need, and the issue of land ownership and control will become ever more important as we realise that we are not making any more of it.
mr president, i voted against the report on the raw materials strategy. fundamentally, the eu strategy is one of resource-grabbing for the interests of european big business. they want to get access to raw materials at any cost, regardless of the devastating consequences which their extraction activities can have on indigenous communities, on the environment and on working class people. when i was in kazakhstan i saw the impact of mining multinational arcelormittal, which is guilty of grossly exploiting its workers and giving them no basic rights. the call for raw materials diplomacy is a very blatant appeal to use the european external action service in the service of these big business interests. the debate also revealed the role of big business and big business influence within this institution, where a number of the meps who are behind this very aggressive report have direct links to the industry and clearly represent its interests. instead of raw materials going to serve the interests of big business and line the pockets of already super-rich multinationals, they should be taken into democratic public ownership and those resources – the vast resources that exist – should be used to raise the living standards of all.
mr president, i am still here. thank you for calling me. can i use the opportunity to say, while we are focusing on the issue of women in enterprise, that the biggest problem for men and women in enterprise at the moment is credit availability. we have in ireland the credit review office, which is suggesting that while there is a problem with credit supply there is also a problem with demand from enterprises, which are fearful of actually taking on extra debt. we need to analyse more deeply what is happening. when businesses look for credit they are not being refused, but the process is taking so long, and there are so many delays and so much bureaucracy involved in applying for loans, that very many of them literally do not push through the loan application. while, therefore, there is no official recognition that they have been refused credit, in effect the process itself within the banks makes this a credit refusal, so i would require that we do further analysis of it, because if we do not have credit neither men nor women can be entrepreneurs.
mr president, if the recommendations in this report to promote female entrepreneurship are acted upon, it will be beneficial both for women and for our economies, because the numbers tell us that only one in ten women are entrepreneurs compared to one in four men. i would like to highlight two particular issues. firstly, the issue of social security: in my own country, and indeed many others, i am aware that if you are an entrepreneur and you go out of business, you do not have any social security entitlements, whereas those you have employed do. so it is no wonder that women, in particular, are cautious about setting up their own business. while i recognise and understand that this is a matter for member states to deal with, i nonetheless think they need to look at this issue. i also want to mention the progress microfinance programme, which is also mentioned in the report. that can provide microcredit of up to eur 25 000 for smes and those who would not normally have access to credit from the banks. my own country has not accessed this fund, and i would call on this country, ireland – and indeed all member states – to make use of this fund to help struggling smes, both in starting up and in becoming sustainable.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom aontú leat i bhfáilte a chur roimh na toscairí ó cheanada anseo inniu. maidir leis an tuarascáil seo, fáiltím roimpi. one thing that would be interesting would be a survey to look at the banks and companies that went bust in the crisis and see how many women were in senior positions in those businesses. i would say, few if any. there is certainly no physical or psychological reason why more women should not be involved in business and entrepreneurship, whereas there might be such a reason in the case of other careers. it is quite obvious, as has been pointed out, that opportunities and encouragement must be provided to ensure this happens. certainly one could say that, had lehman brothers been ‘lehwoman sisters’, we might not be in the situation we are in. so we have a lot to do: the resource is there, let women have the opportunity to contribute to entrepreneurship, smes, etc.
in writing. − the abolition of internal borders has created an even greater need to monitor and adopt a coordinated approach to secure our external borders. the security of europe’s borders has relevance even for those member states who are not in the schengen area. europe must be protected against cross-border crime and other illegal activities, including the alarming problem of human trafficking facing the eu. a balance must be struck between ensuring borders remain open and efficient for citizens, legitimate travellers and people in need of protection and in ensuring that they remain closed to criminal elements. while it is important for europe to have a common migration policy, it is equally important that we avoid the ‘easy’ rhetoric surrounding migration. some member states have been calling for the right to re-impose border controls in times of trouble. such calls should be resisted, and the schengen agreement should be strengthened to ensure the continuation of the right to freedom of movement within europe.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo mar thús maith chun an córas galileo a chur i bhfeidhm, ionas go mbeadh neamhspleáchas níos láidre ag an ae maidir leis an gcóras gps agus mar sin de.
i scríbhinn. − mar chathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa don chaidreamh leis an eilvéis, leis an íoslainn agus leis an iorua, agus chun an comhchoiste pharlaimintigh den limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch, is cúis sásaimh dom go bhfuil an comhaontú seo á chur i gcrích.
i scríbhinn. − níl aon leas iascaireachta ag éirinn i gceantar an aigéin chiúin theas. mar chomhalta den choiste um iascach, áfach, tacaím leis an togra.
i scríbhinn. − mar chathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa don chaidreamh leis an eilvéis, leis an íoslainn agus leis an iorua, agus chun an chomhchoiste pharlaimintigh den limistéar eorpach eacnamaíoch, is cúis sásaimh dom go bhfuil an comhaontú seo á chur i gcrích.
in writing. − i welcome this green paper on audit policy. irresponsible risk-taking decisions were amongst the core triggers of the financial crisis three years ago. systemically important financial operators have shown inadequate risk management and control systems, and lessons need to be drawn on auditing policy and practice. properly empowered audit committees and good-quality external auditing are cornerstones of economic stability, easy access to financing as well as market confidence in the accuracy of financial and risk reports. when auditing firms provide a company with services other than gauging its financial shape, conflicts of interest are liable to arise, compounding the fact that auditors are paid by the audited firm. hence the importance of international standards on auditing, as well as ensuring good governance practices. auditor independence is key to accurate financial reporting and we need to reflect upon the implications of unwarranted intimacy between auditors and the scrutinised companies, especially in a field dominated by four main providers. we need to consider the feasibility and impact of solutions such as external rotations, voluntary joint auditing undertakings. moreover, a clear regulatory environment and standards can help smaller auditors thrive and diversify this area of public interest.
in writing. − i supported this report which urges the commission to study the gender inequalities it identifies and further urges the member states to help women to remain in the labour market, to make appropriate provisions in welfare systems, to gender assess pension systems and health care, and, moreover, to look into gender-related diseases during the year 2012, the year of active ageing. the average european employment rate for women aged between 55-64 years is 37.8%, compared with 54.8% for men in the same age bracket. in some 21 member states the unemployment rate is higher for women than men. indeed, the rate of part-time work is four times higher among women than among men (37%:12%). furthermore, the gender pay gap is much higher at the end of women’s careers. age discrimination against women over 50 is also reported much more frequently than in other age groups. older men tend to remain outside the labour market mainly because of retirement, whereas with women family responsibilities are the primary cause. however, older women still represent an important contribution to society in that they help care for their children and their grandchildren.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s decision to designate 2012 as the european year of active ageing. europe has the highest proportion of older women in the world, we are living in an aging society and we need to act now to develop an eu strategy in order to combat ageism and to ensure that the older members of our society are provided for. older women often face double discrimination in the labour market based on gender and age, the employment rate of women between 55-64 years was 37.8% in 2009 compared to 54.8% of men of same age. women’s unemployment is often hidden as ‘inactivity’ if they are married, have children or are taking care of dependent family members; sadly this also contributes to the gender pay gap which is more greatly pronounced at older age. i welcome the adoption of this report but this issue must not end here; we must push the commission to ensure that 2012 is an extremely effective year for the development of active ageing.
in writing. − older women face discrimination in the labour market based on both their gender and age. this, combined with other factors, increases their vulnerability to poverty in their old age. shorter or interrupted careers due to childbirth or caring for others and a persistent and significant gender pay gap, which only increases with age, also contribute to this fact. as family caregivers, women often take more flexible jobs that come with lower wages and few, if any, benefits. frequent job changes also make it harder to qualify for decent pensions. the occurrence of part-time work is four times higher among women than men all of these factors combine and have a huge impact on women’s ability to accumulate pension entitlements for their old age. additionally, women live longer, which makes them especially vulnerable during retirement. they outlive their husbands due to a higher life expectancy. living for longer, and with less pension entitlements, means older women are at a greater risk of poverty than men. more must be done to address these issues and to ensure that women are protected from discrimination both during their working lives and on into their retirement.
i scríbhinn. − is cúis bhuartha i ngach cearn den domhan í ceist na slándála bia. le cúltacaí idirnáisiúnta bia ag laghdú agus daonraí agus éileamh ar bhia ag fás, tá luaineacht i gcostas bia agus beatha ag cruthú deacrachtaí ó thaobh an tsoláthair bia agus amhábhar de. ní mór feabhas suntasach a chur ar éifeachtacht na hearnála talmhaíochta chun an t-éileamh domhanda ar bhia a chomhlíonadh. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le cothromaíocht a bhaint amach idir infheistíocht sa taighde agus san earnáil talmhaíochta chun slándáil an tsoláthair bia a áirithiú. braitheann an ae go mór ar allmhairí amhábhar agus mar sin ní mór tuilleadh infheistíochta a dhéanamh sa taighde chun ábhair mhalartacha a fhorbairt agus chun teacht ar úsáid níos éifeachtaí na n-amhábhar mar atá, an athchúrsáil san áireamh. thairis sin, ní mór go spreagfadh straitéis an ae um amhábhair ballstáit an aontais agus tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha chun comhoibriú le chéile d’fhonn cur chuige praiticiúil cothrom éifeachtach a bhaint amach. ní foláir don ae trédhearcacht agus forbairt inmharthana a spreagadh sna réigiúin atá i mbéal forbartha d’fhonn beartas láidir, inmharthana maidir le trádáil agus baint acmhainní a chur i bhfeidhm.
i scríbhinn. − níl aon leas iascaireachta ag éirinn i gceantar na mara duibhe. mar chomhalta den choiste um iascach, áfach, tacaím leis an togra.
in writing. − i welcome this report on black sea fish stocks and the livelihoods of their local fishermen. all black sea coastal countries should support and enforce a new joint fisheries policy, based on long-term sustainability and co-ordinated efforts to protect stocks.
in writing. − i welcome this report on offshore oil and gas activity safety, given the need to avoid a repetition of the deepwater horizon catastrophe on our shores. the eu must draw on its lessons and carefully review the relevant regulations, as the us commission in charge of enquiring into this disaster identified practices which are common in the eu, and also in adjacent jurisdictions. this situation also highlights the need to copperfasten the applicable international regimes.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis has deepened the problems for many potential entrepreneurs, especially in the first three years of business and highlights how the development of profitable smes by both men and women can help member states to achieve more sustainable economic growth. at present we are trying to row back the current of talented young europeans who feel that emigration is the only means by which they can prosper. the eu project must assist their young, potential entrepreneurs and their smes in order to assist their own recovery. women are still hugely underrepresented as entrepreneurs in the eu and consideration must be given to the positive steps taken in the us in order to tackle the issue of under-representation. the report recognises that certain factors contribute to unequal representation. many women feel that they do not have the opportunity to start their own business as that would mean juggling their role as carers, mothers and professionals – the crisis has acted as a catalyst to reinforced barriers to sme creation; we must ensure that the option to create smes remains viable, as they are the lifeblood of the eu economy.
in writing. − female entrepreneurs must often overcome discrimination in order to operate in what has traditionally been a male environment. the european commission’s report of the investment readiness for women entrepreneurs workshop concluded that female entrepreneurs often have different goals for their businesses and face greater difficulties than men in accessing finance. women can also face institutional, legislative and infrastructural barriers as well as barriers relating to inadequate childcare provision. women are now a significant part of the workforce of member states. indeed, in 2010 women represented 46% of the total labour market in ireland. last week, the irish minister for small business launched a new national mentoring programme for female entrepreneurs as part of a wider eu commission initiative called european network of mentors for women entrepreneurs. the programme aims at boosting female entrepreneurship and supports women’s start-ups in their first year of activity. boosting female enterprise promises valuable returns for an economy, and it is in the interest of policy makers to remove barriers to entrepreneurship by women. more must be done to encourage women to become entrepreneurs and to eliminate the barriers facing them.
mr president, i would like to apologise for not being in the chamber for the full debate, but we also have running side-by-side a debate with people with disabilities – the ‘freedom drive’ – and it is very difficult to do both. i wish very briefly, within the time available to me, to draw attention to article 13. commissioner, i think you may be aware that ireland is concerned about the wording of article 13, which we believe goes beyond the standard ‘effective, dissuasive and proportionate’ wording. we have advised that we will insert a declaration in the text indicating that we will place particular emphasis on recital 23, which refers to the application of the penalties ‘in accordance with national law’, as there could be a constitutional issue in relation to the separation of powers. we are not convinced that the wording of article 13 would not impact on this issue. on the wider content of this debate, however, we fully concur. we have an energy market; we need to ensure that consumers are protected. we are moving in the right direction with this.
a uachtaráin, tá a chosúlacht ar an scéal nach bhfuiltear chun na spriocanna a leag an coimisiún eorpach síos in 2007 maidir leis an red tape a laghdú 25% faoin mbliain 2012 a bhaint amach. an bhliain seo caite sa teach seo, agus uachtarán an choimisiúin ag tabhairt a óráide maidir le staid an aontais, dúirt an tuasal barroso go raibh tograí foilsithe ag an gcoimisiún maidir le eur 38 billiún a shábháil do chomhlachtaí eorpacha trí bhíthin laghduithe ar an red tape seo. while the president may have made this commitment in good faith, he now has an obligation to follow this through and prove commitment; and action is required. the effect of unnecessary and over-the-top legislation on all companies – but particularly smes, the backbone of business and employment in this union – is immense. the bottom line is that the commission must step up its game and must redouble its efforts in order to reduce the administrative burden on the sme sector in ireland and europe at present.
mr president, one of the colleagues said that legislation is our product here as politicians, and it is, so some of the complaints we make about it to the commission and others, we could make about ourselves. we overcomplicate, we sometimes table amendments that are not clear, and the tragedy is that the words that are finally voted on and agreed between the commission, the council and parliament are words that are then implemented in member states in national legislation. sometimes that is done haphazardly and slowly, but usually these things come to pass. i think there is an onus on us to legislate better in this house. i know that journalists who come here find it very difficult to follow or indeed read the various reports that come before us. i know that i have been here seven years now, but in the first year in this parliament there was no induction into drafting or amending legislation, so we need to look at how we do business ourselves and make the process better. finally, on pilot projects, sometimes they are an excuse for member states not to act. we need a little bit more attention paid to them.
mr president, as a member who has just had to withdraw from the committee on petitions, i would like to thank my colleagues on that committee, and indeed the secretariat and all who have helped me. it is simply a question of workload on other committees. i do think it is important that we draw attention to our successes. in my time, we had equitable life where soon the uk government will be paying out compensation to eu citizens who had problems. we also have the unresolved problem of property rights that other colleagues have mentioned here. i would support the call by michael cashman that some initiative should be taken for citizens who purchase properties in other member states, either to warn them that they are not protected as eu citizens or to do something about it. we talk in this house about ‘more europe’ and i think this is one area where we do perhaps need ‘more europe’ for our legal system, particularly in relation to property.
in writing. – the committee on petitions’ repeated calls to be kept informed of the progress of infringement proceedings relating to open petitions remain unanswered in most cases. petitioners contact their local meps in order to follow their petition and it is embarrassing and simply not acceptable that we cannot inform them of the status of their petitions, therefore paragraph 24 is particularly welcome and pertinent. the commission also needs to be forthcoming regarding the progress of their investigations, upon initial examination of a petition (which usually takes six to eight months); neither the mep nor the petitioners receive any feedback on what are usually very urgent matters. a sense of urgency needs to be adopted by the commission. i would like draw attention to recital l: 40% of petitions received are inadmissible; we need to work to raise citizens’ awareness of petitions. confusion remains on the different eu and national competences, as well as those of the eu institutions, in particular the european court of human rights. petitioners are often unsure of what exactly constitutes an admissible petition. as petitions are the earliest indications that member states are lagging behind in implementing eu law, the commission must recognise the role and crucial importance of petitions in monitoring the effective implementation of eu law.
madam president, thank you for your very clear explanation. could you inform the house how the topic was chosen – and why this particular topic? in my view, it is so vague that it will perhaps make it difficult for us to get a direction on it unless we have very clear answers.
member of the commission. − the egf, which i mentioned, together with the social fund, is mainly about human activities. it supports training, retraining, the gaining of new knowledge, and also development of lifelong learning. it is always a type of support that helps develop human capital. this has also been applied in rural areas, but now it will be made more explicit that, for example, the egf also applies to training support and other capacities in the agriculture sector. when developing the content of such activities we will very closely cooperate with commissioner cioloş.
does the commissioner consider the decision of talktalk in waterford to close at one month’s notice, with the loss of 575 call centre jobs, to be in breach of any eu directives, and in particular directive 98/59/ec? the workers heard about their job losses through social media and the radio.
member of the commission. − i have been informed about this case by irish meps. i will see mr kelly tomorrow and i saw mr de rossa today. i consider this to be a very important issue and potentially a very serious case but, before rushing to any kind of judgement, i will have to look at the evidence on the ground. i should be grateful for any further information.
i just wonder whether you are aware of any other eu directive under which sanctions can be taken against companies which behave in this fashion towards their employees?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our strategy, mr sartori, is to try to do a lot of work, especially for electric cars, for example, a very important sector where europe is at the forefront, but where more can also be done to combat climate change. we will also be working a lot with the innovation partnership on, for example, raw materials, where we will be working on recycling and replacement, and thus research applied to industrial activity, also in a strong strategy of commitment against climate change.
member of the commission. − you must be aware that a high number of countries have been using the opt-out from the working time directive, sectorally or completely. from my perspective, obviously this is not a good way to proceed and far from an optimal situation, but that is why we have launched the procedure through consultation for a new working time directive which would be widely applicable in the eu. we follow the evolution of labour legislation in various member states. sometimes, there is concern because it is true that sometimes a sufficient balance between flexibility and security is not provided. there are also cases where the social partners are not sufficiently consulted. i believe it is very important to consult the social partners and potentially other stakeholders before delivering labour legislation, and it is very important to revise it if there has perhaps been a long time – decades – since the last act and the economy has changed massively in the period in-between. slovakia, mentioned in the question, is one of the countries where we have been looking at cases to see whether there is evidence of non-compliance with eu law, which we will obviously take very seriously.
member of the commission. − i heard it was not a question but a comment, so i refer to my earlier remarks concerning the working time directive.
this question is to commissioner andor, and is not so much on new forms of work as on the whole issue of job creation. many people believe that technology is displacing jobs. take, for example, the new super iphone that will be released at the end of the month, which will displace cameras, portable televisions, laptops, video recorders and landlines. the fact is that these new iphones will be manufactured using technology with minimum labour input, and most of them will be sold on the internet. more and more students, for example, are using the new ipad with consequent impacts on printers and publishers, etc. the comment i am making is that, while we are always being told we are moving up the value chain at european level, is technology not displacing more and more jobs? i would like your view on that. my second question follows on from what mr niculescu said. there are sectors where technology cannot displace humans or people, and one of those is the care sector. given that people are living longer there will be more and more demand for care services. while i know this is a member state competence, i just wonder if the commission intends to take any action on this at european level, because i think that would be useful.
member of the commission. − i agree with mrs harkin that in many cases technology is probably displacing jobs and human labour in industry, but not necessarily across the whole economy. there are sectors identified where we can anticipate an increase in the number of jobs. during our dialogues, business europe suggested that more jobs will be created in industry. however, job creation is expected to be more dynamic in services, particularly in a number of sectors such as education – broadly speaking – and health and care. this was one of the conclusions of our spring conference with the nobel prize winner professor pissarides – one of the great experts on this issue. together, we looked at the transformation of the european labour market. we have to prepare proactively for new opportunities in sectors where there is room and necessity for new jobs. we would also like to focus our efforts – within the european social fund – on helping to retrain the labour force and preparing to fill new job opportunities. the efforts to develop new initiatives on green jobs, for example, are also targeting a sector where employment should grow in the future.
i thank the commissioner for his answer, which certainly gives us some idea of where the commission is going. however, commissioner, i believe that technological changes are such that the old rules and remedies certainly no longer apply and job creation is now a real difficulty for member states. i am just wondering whether we should not look at the way we organise ourselves, and at creating more jobs from less work, and perhaps at finding other ways of distributing wealth, because that is a crucial issue as far as jobs are concerned. i do not think we have had a real debate and discussion that has changed the work and the job landscape for ever. i do hear what you are saying, but i would like to see more action at european level to indicate that we are recognising the new world we live in and that the commission is responding to it.
first of all, compliments to everybody for the new format and particularly to the commissioners for their accurate and brief responses. this is far more stimulating and enjoyable than the previous system we had. a propos the topic, the downside of a recession is obviously unemployment. my colleague referred to talktalk closing within 30 days, with the loss of 575 jobs. the construction industry has suffered hugely. there is 14.5% unemployment in ireland and 9.5% across the eu. in relation to those with specific skill sets, has the commission any plans or proposals in mind whereby those skill sets could be transferred so that they could get new forms of work?
i would like to thank commissioner andor for his ready and willing response to the talktalk situation. a supplementary question in relation to the forthcoming amendments to the working time directive: will the commission consider introducing some measures by which employers are encouraged to take on additional staff, rather than increase the working hours of the staff they have already and decrease their wages accordingly?
madam president, could the commission outline the measures it will take to hasten the simplification and adaptation of trade defence instrument procedures to the needs and accounting systems of smes and to establish adequate support measures for smes affected by proceedings initiated by third countries? could the commission also indicate whether it intends to take measures to facilitate smes’ access to the transatlantic markets?
madam president, reference has been made to the eu 2020 target of lifting 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. we should recognise reality here: the reality is that instead of approaching that target, we are moving further and further away from it, and it is a direct result of the cuts and attacks that are imposed on working people right across europe. these austerity policies are forcing millions into poverty and putting many at risk of homelessness. in greece in the past two years, for example, homelessness has risen by 25%. in ireland, too, services for the homeless have been cut and face outsourcing and privatisation. this means fewer resources for the most vulnerable in our society. the wages and conditions of those providing those services have also been attacked. the crazy logic of a system built on profit, rather than people’s needs, is exposed in ireland whereby you have 48 000 families on the housing waiting lists and 300 vacant housing units, and yet they are not used. they are not taken into public ownership. they are not used to provide homes for people who need it. instead you have a reliance on the private sector and because of that only 296 out of a target of 1 200 housing units were secured in ireland over the past year. instead of more money for the bankers and the bond holders, i call for a massive increase in funding to care for those who find themselves homeless. the basic human right to housing must be made a reality and policies such as the housing first approach should be implemented to provide people with homes immediately.
madam president, does the commission intend to consider making use of housing units which have never been occupied since the onset of the crisis? does it intend to tie in its strategy on homelessness with efforts to relieve financially distressed households in difficulty due to servicing mortgage debt, as these are also at risk of becoming homeless? indeed many people in that situation have become homeless. does it intend to study the relation between mortgage indebtedness, land planning and real estate regulation across the eu?
mr president, when i heard the commission make the observation that we need a better spirit of confidence between the institutions and national governments, i wondered where exactly, and when exactly, it all went so horribly wrong. it seems to me that when things were good in europe – or we thought they were good – everybody was in agreement. we are being tested politically because of the crisis. while much of this debate has focused on the economic crisis and the problems in greece, i think the problems are much closer to home. they concern the profession that i am involved in, as these are problems with the profession of politics. how do we, as elected representatives, deliver better for our citizens? how do we tell them the harsh messages that they may not want to hear, but which we need to deliver to them in order to make progress? we need to look at ourselves to find those answers. what spurs me to keep going is the messages from the extreme right and the extreme left. let the centre prevail and make progress.
mr president, i support this regulation aimed at avoiding market manipulation and insider trading. if it works it would be good for consumers in terms of energy prices, but the energy challenge for europe is great. we are significant importers of energy. i would like to draw attention to a problem which has arisen in my own member state about agreeing a refit tariff (renewable energy feed in tariffs) for the renewable energy sector. we are losing significant investment internally in the country due to the absence of an agreement on this issue, which the commission is aware of and the member state is pursuing. i hope it is resolved to the benefit of the sector very shortly.
mr president, like my colleagues i was pleased to vote in favour of this regulation but because the regulation was voted on as a single vote we were unable to express our concerns regarding article 13 which could lead to a constitutional issue for ireland because there is a potential dilution there of the separation of powers between the legislature and the judiciary. for that reason, ireland would probably insert a declaration with the text of recital 23 which refers to the application of penalties in accordance with national law. that is very important.
mr president, i also welcome these proposals because it is good that we look at what we are doing and try and improve it. certainly there is an element of this here. i attended as many as i could of the hearings for the commissioners last year. i think most of them were quite satisfactory, but one in particular was very unfair to the lady in question. the questions were repetitive, personal and certainly not in accordance with giving fair play to the person involved. she did not become a commissioner subsequently. it is important that we get the best possible commissioners. in that light, i just want to refer briefly to a suggestion made by commissioner oettinger about flying flags at half mast for countries with excessive deficits. this was ill-thought and ill-judged, and i would entreat him to withdraw those remarks with all possible haste.
mr president, i would like in particular to refer to paragraph 13 of the doha resolution, which specifically deals with a relatively new problem the world faces, namely food security. certainly it is now on the political agenda whereas perhaps ten years ago, at the outset of doha, it was not. we need our multilateral agreements, should they ever prevail, to take account of the issue of food security. there are many in this house who have concerns about the inclusion of agriculture in the doha round in the context of the world trade system. however, we would also have concerns about the proliferation of bilateral trade agreements. here i refer to paragraph 12 of the resolution, which urges us to look again at the situation of the bric countries. their fortunes have changed and their place in the world is different from what it used to be; this may indeed – as the resolution suggests – render the original objectives of the doha round impossible to attain.
mr president, we are now three months away from the next round of negotiations on the doha development agenda and it is already very clear that no substantial progress will be made. let us recall that ten years ago at the launch of these negotiations we were told that these would be win-win negotiations. that whole idea, that win-win scenario, has been a lie from the start in my view. the deadlock in the negotiations underlines the fact that development and poverty eradication are not compatible with the interests of the major players in the global economy, particularly in the case of this deep economic crisis. the wto has never been, and will not become, an organisation that facilitates trade in the interests of workers and small farmers. it is an undemocratic institution that primarily represents the interests of the major corporations. its policies have resulted in privatisation, lower labour standards and an increase in exploitation. the wto has failed the test of the doha development agenda. it should be abolished and replaced by a system based on genuine global solidarity and cooperation between peoples. that means tackling the dictatorship of the markets and planning the economy on people’s needs.
mr president, i would just pick up on this and thank peter jahr for those clarifying comments on two very important issues on which the committee on petitions has worked but has not reached a conclusion. i would suggest that where there is a specific large problem affecting many citizens, perhaps we could look at setting up a special temporary committee of inquiry. it worked with equitable life – it took a long time to get results but at least it did have an effect. can i also say that the first port of call for many citizens when they have a problem with the european union or indeed back home, is their mep, and some meps are more accessible than others. we would direct where appropriate our citizens to the committee on petitions. there also is the pilot projects initiative which works between the commission and the member state. while i have had some good experience where this works effectively, i do not think it is open or transparent enough because i have had another experience where nothing happened and we had to go to the ombudsman. so, much good work has been done, but there is more to do.
mr president, i welcome the report in that it is a long overdue forensic analysis of the scope, powers and relevance of the committee on petitions. one of the problems that we constantly refer to is the perception that europe and the eu project are remote from our 500 million citizens, and one vital instrument in addressing that particular deficit and bridging the gap is the petitions committee, where individuals or communities can come before the committee, have their grievances heard and hopefully redressed. the statistics speak for themselves. in 2010, 1 655 petitions were received. i welcome in particular recital f. i have had tremendous success thanks to the committee in highlighting neglect by two local authorities in ireland – one in respect of flooding, the other in respect of road surfaces which led to deaths – and getting action. secondly, i welcome recital l which highlights the lack of action on the part of member states. we have to make citizens more aware of the committee on petitions. it is a very useful instrument.
a uachtaráin, mar a dúirt mo chomghleacaithe, tá an coiste seo gan dabht ar bith ar cheann de na coistí is fearr sa pharlaimint agus déanann sé an-chuid oibre. chonaic mé é sin mé féin. tugann sé an-éisteacht do dhaoine agus déanann siad cinntí maithe. as an example of that, mr higgins – as he referred to a few minutes ago – was involved in dealing with a petition relating to some roadside accidents that led to mortalities. they could not get any movement in ireland and came here basically as a last port of call because of bureaucratic regulations, intransigent state agencies and so forth. they came here and they got some semblance of justice. the same applied to the haulbowline toxic dump site. nothing was happening in ireland. it was passed from billy to jack for a number of years. the committee on petitions heard it and there was progress within 30 days, so certainly we should celebrate what is good.
mr president, i will be brief. i supported this resolution because i think it is important that we raise awareness of not just concentrating on carbon and reducing co2 emissions. just to mention that when it comes to energy efficiency as a way of reducing co2 emissions – which we all believe is the right way to go – we are failing to reach our targets and we really need to redouble our efforts in that respect. the issue of non-co2 emissions is significant because it may indeed be a less costly way of tackling climate change. i concur absolutely with paragraph 11 which calls for rigorous global implementation of air pollution regulations. we need global agreement and global implementation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that redundant workers need to be assisted with a package of personalised measures in order to allow them access to retraining and upskilling. this will help to facilitate their re-entry into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour in order to ensure that assistance from the european globalisation fund is available to the workers made redundant in austria following a global drop in demand for metal that hit the austrian metal industry. the measures proposed in the application by the austrian government will, i believe, facilitate the re-entry of the redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. − i support this report which targets 800 workers who lost their jobs in the printing industry and the graphic sector in the netherlands. this package is part of four interrelated applications and it is hoped that all four will benefit the redundant workers with training and upskilling opportunities and job search initiatives
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and it is worth noting that this application was based on article 2c of the regulation, on the flexibility of the egf and how it can respond to different situations, but always with the redundant workers in mind.
in writing. − i support this egf application which like some others is based on article 2c of the egf regulation. the dutch government also established a link between the financial and economic crisis and the decrease in demand for the graphic media industry. this indicates that the need for the crisis derogation must continue, and i would urge the dutch and indeed all other governments to support this derogation up to the end of 2012.
in writing. − i support the report, as i support the egf application for the 551 dutch workers who were made redundant in the graphic media industry. this industry suffered a drop of nearly 9% in turnover and the dutch government was able to establish a link between the financial and economic crisis and the redundancies. as in other egf applications we voted on today it is crucial that all eu governments recognise the need to extend the crisis derogation to the end of 2012.
in writing. − i welcome this report on public access to documents. it is often said that sunlight is the best disinfectant and this report reaffirms that transparency is not merely a proverbial ideal but rather a fundamental right protected by the eu charter of fundamental rights. transparency is essential in order to effectively counteract corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. moreover, it is a vital structural tool to be used in the promotion of a virtuous cycle in public administration. we should reject any retrospective, backward-looking approach to transparency and, in light of calls from the european ombudsman for the european institutions to adopt a proactive approach, we should make as much information as possible openly available to the public. we cannot understate the nexus between open and transparent decision-making and the improvement of civil society’s participation in public life. this, in turn, strengthens the relationship between the institutions and the european citizen.
i scríbhinn. − tá a chosúlacht ar an scéal nach bhfuiltear chun na spriocanna a leag an coimisiún eorpach síos i 2007 maidir leis an rómhaorlathas a laghdú 25% faoin mbliain 2012 a bhaint amach. an bhliain seo caite, agus uachtarán an choimisiúin ag tabhairt a óráide maidir le staid an aontais, dúirt an tuasal barroso go raibh tograí foilsithe ag an gcoimisiún maidir le eur 38 billiún sa bhliain a shábháil do chomhlachtaí eorpacha trí bhíthin laghduithe ar an rómhaorlathas. ní mór cur chuige tiomanta gníomhach a chur i bhfeidhm. tá éifeacht shuntasach ar leith ag an rómhaorlathas agus ag an rialáil éadairbheach ar earnáil na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide. is é bun agus barr an scéil é go bhfuil dualgas ar an gcoimisiún eorpach a seacht ndícheall a dhéanamh chun an rómhaorlathas atá ag tachtadh earnáil na ngnóthas beag in éirinn agus san eoraip faoi láthair a laghdú.
in writing. − i welcome mr karim’s report on the regulatory environment in operation in europe at the present time. the report underscores and reaffirms the importance of both smart regulation and the need for the form and function of the union not to exceed what is required to realise the objectives of the treaties. it also stresses the need to engage with key stakeholders in relation to specific legislation, particularly smes in order to establish the problems they face when trying to increase employment and trade within europe. it also reiterates the need to connect with civil society in order to gain information about the situation on the ground, which in turn leads to more effective legislation. this report is particularly welcome in light of the current economic environment wherein unemployment and poor growth are prolific. having regard to this, we, as legislators, must do everything in our power to ensure there are as few unnecessary administrative barriers as possible for entrepreneurs and those seeking to create employment for the many unemployed in europe.
i scríbhinn. − is foirm fhíordhian den bhochtaineacht í an easpa dídine, agus ní mór don choimisiún cúnamh breise a thabhairt do na ballstáit agus iad ag dul i ngleic leis an ngéarchéim seo. chuige sin fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil. ní bhainfear an sprioc maidir le deireadh a chur leis an easpa dídine faoi 2015 amach mura gcuirfear cur chuige comhtháite i bhfeidhm a chlúdaíonn gach réimse beartais ábhartha chomh maith le ceist níos leithne an iniaimh shóisialta. ní leor é go bhfuil monatóireacht agus tuairisceoireacht i gceist leis an straitéis um easpa dídine; ní mór go mbeadh bearta gníomhacha ann maidir le straitéisí inmharthana éifeachtacha náisiúnta agus réigiúnacha a fhorbairt. leathnaíodh le déanaí ar chiste forbraíochta réigiúnaí na heorpa chun tithíocht do dhaoine imeallaithe a chlúdach. ní mór don chiste sin agus do chiste sóisialta na heorpa díriú ar chláir na fíorbhochtaineachta agus na heaspa dídine. ba chóir go mbeadh sé níos éasca d’eagraíochtaí teacht ar an airgead atá ar fáil ón gcoimisiún agus ó na ballstáit agus ní mór an rómhaorlathas a laghdú go suntasach. cad chuige cistí sóisialta agus pleananna gníomhaíochta mura ndéanann siad maitheas ar bith don dream siúd is mó a bhfuil siad ag teastáil uathu?
in writing. − i supported this resolution which seeks to press the commission to come up with an overarching eu homelessness strategy underpinned by national and regional strategies with the long-term aim of ending homelessness within the broader social inclusion framework. this resolution demands amongst other things that any strategy adopted must ensure the collection of eu homelessness data, must include clear targets, an integrated approach covering all relevant policy fields, proper governance, proper data collection, a strong housing dimension, taking account of changing profiles of the homeless population, and particularly the impact of migration, and, must include budgetary allocations from the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf).
i scríbhinn. − tá daoine i ngach cearn den aontas atá buailte ag an easpa dídine. tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le deireadh a chur leis an easpa dídine ar na sráideanna faoin mbliain 2015. ceann de spriocanna atá sa straitéis ‘eoraip 2020’ is ea deireadh a chur leis an mbochtaineacht. tá sé mar aidhm ag an straitéis 20 milliún duine ar a laghad a shábháil ón mbochtaineacht faoin mbliain 2020. tá tionscnamh suaitheanta i gceist sa straitéis freisin ar a dtugtar an tardán eorpach in aghaidh na bochtaineachta agus an eisiaimh shóisialta.
i scríbhinn. − iarrann an rún seo ar an gcoimisiún eorpach luas a chur le hiarrachtaí chun astaíochtaí hidreaclórafluaracarbóin a laghdú agus molann sé toirmisc a thabhairt isteach de réir a chéile ar úsáid hidreaclórafluaracarbóin a dhéanann dochar don chomhshaol.
a uachtaráin, is dócha tar éis na drochscéalta go léir faoi chúrsaí eacnamaíochta gur maith an rud é go bhfuil dea-scéal le plé againn. gan amhras is dea-scéal é go bhfuil bata agus bóthar tugtha don deachtóir an coirnéal gaddafi tar éis dó a bheith dhá scór agus dhá bhliain i réim. tá moladh mór ag dul do na réabhlóidithe agus do nato, agus taobh istigh den aontas eorpach caithfimid creidiúint a thabhairt don bhreatain agus don fhrainc ach go háirithe; david cameron agus nicholas sarkozy as ucht an cheannaireacht agus an chrógacht a thaispeáin siad ón tús. anois caithfimid féachaint don todhchaí. tá buntáistí faoi leith ag an libia. tá áiseanna airgid acu a bheidh ar fáil dóibh amach anseo agus tá toibreacha ola acu a chinnteoidh go mbeidh caighdeán maireachtála maith acu. tá ról mór le plé ag an mbean uasal ashton chun a chinntiú go mbeidh stuamacht á soláthar sa tír agus go háirithe go mbeidh rialtas daonlathach acu agus muintir na libia ina fheighil.
in writing. – i support this resolution which strongly condemns the escalating use of force against peaceful protesters and the brutal and systematic persecution of pro-democracy activists, human rights defenders and journalists and expresses deepest concern at the gravity of the human rights violations perpetrated by the syrian authorities, including mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention, disappearances and torture and calls for an immediate end to all such barbarism. we further express solidarity with the syrian people fighting for their rights, commend their courage and determination and strongly support their aspiration to achieve full respect of the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. we call for an immediate, genuine and inclusive political process with the participation of all democratic political actors and civil society organisations which could be the basis of a peaceful and irreversible transition to democracy in syria. indeed we call for an independent, transparent and effective investigation into the killings, arrests, arbitrary detention and alleged forced disappearances and instances of torture by the syrian security forces in order to ensure that the perpetrators of such acts are held to account.
mr president, in the middle east we are 60 seconds to midnight. members do not need me to rehearse the conflicts that are under way and those bubbling under the surface. the arab spring and its potential for a great leap forward can only be fully realised when the israeli-palestinian conflict and occupation is resolved. in this regard, europe has to be consistent if we are to retain any shred of credibility with those who are struggling to construct a better way of governing themselves and providing a better life for their children. we all know that a negotiated two-state solution is the optimum solution. palestinians decided over 20 years ago to accept a palestinian state on the 1967 green line – 22% of their historic homeland – with jerusalem as a shared capital with israel. despite this historic compromise, israel’s current leadership refuses to engage, demanding negotiations without palestinian preconditions, while laying down its own preconditions, such as continued colonisation of palestinian land, and rejecting president obama’s basis for negotiations. president abbas therefore has no option but to make a broad appeal to the international community, through the united nations, in order to maintain his non-violent, political and diplomatic strategy for an end to the conflict. all eu member states support the establishment of a palestinian state on the 1967 lines, and we have agreed that the pa is ready for statehood, so no major principle is involved. by voting for an upgrading of the state of palestine in the united nations, we will, however, reinforce the non-violent strategy of president abbas. to do otherwise will shred our reputation in the region. i urge the european external action service to strain every sinew to negotiate a resolution with the palestinians which unites eu member states in support of president abbas’s initiative, which reassures both palestinians and israelis regarding their core concerns, and which seeks to create the potential for revived, time-limited final status negotiations. that could possibly stop the clock.
mr president, many people in the occupied territories, in the middle east and around the world have a hope that the vote at the un will contribute in some way to ending the horrific oppression which the palestinian people face. unfortunately, whichever way the vote goes, their suffering will continue. there have been hundreds of resolutions, many condemning israeli aggression and resolutions recognising and supporting an independent palestinian state at the un. successive israeli governments have simply ignored them. what i think is needed to bring about change is mass action, a third intifada by the palestinian people against the blockade of gaza, against roadblocks, against the apartheid wall, against incursions by the israeli army and against the occupation itself. in recent months, there has been a magnificent movement in israel with young people – working class people – participating in a social movement demanding social justice. 450 000 people demonstrated two weeks ago. i would put forward that this movement should also take up the question of the oppression of their palestinian brothers and sisters. such a development would open up the prospect of forging a powerful alliance of the palestinian masses and the israeli workers fighting together against their common enemy, the israeli establishment, fighting for socialist change in the region, a socialist israel and a socialist palestine. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, could i ask paul murphy for a direct reply to a simple question. does he support the proposal of president abbas for recognition of the palestinian state in the united nations? yes or no?
mr president, i support the democratic right of the palestinian people and the palestinian authority to be recognised in the un. i support the question of observer status. i would go further than that, but i do not think that, as a tactic, it is the correct method to use in terms of achieving liberation for the palestinian people. i think emphasis has to be placed on building a movement of the palestinian masses; on taking inspiration from the arab spring, the revolutions, and the power of ordinary people when mobilised to overthrow dictators to bring about significant change; and also on that movement linking up with ordinary people within israel.
a uachtaráin, is tubaisteach an méid daoine atá ag fáil bháis san afraic. mar a dúradh, tá 12 milliún duine i mbéal an bháis. ag an am gcéanna is dócha gur féidir linn a bheith bródúil as an méid cabhrach atáimid ag tabhairt dóibh; eur 700 milliún, mar a dúirt an coimisinéir malmström. bíodh sin mar atá, tá cúpla pointe ba mhaith liom a rá: speakers have outlined many different points, all very valid. one of the points made was that everybody wants to help, and this has led to a growth of ngos involved in doing good charitable work. i am just wondering, and i would ask the commissioner this: have we a proliferation of ngos? would it be better if we had fewer ngos and maybe some of the charitable trusts and ngos amalgamated and were more effective and more coordinated? would she consider this? i would welcome her response.
mr president, it seems ironic that today, 15 september, has been designated food safety day by the commission and we are focusing on the minimisation of food waste in the european union. we waste upwards of 90 million tonnes of food a year, about 180 kg per person, and yet so many parts of the world have total food insecurity, as we are debating this morning. while there is perhaps no connection, i think there is a connection in the long term because those who are hungry and see where there is plenty will, i believe, at some stage come to resent that and they will, as mothers do, want to feed their children and use whatever means or energies they have to get access to food. so, yes, we need the short-term aid to go in, be it money or food. we need to make sure it gets to those who need it, and i believe that many of the ngos are working well on the ground. above all, we need an agricultural policy in africa to deal with the development of agriculture and food production on that continent.
mr president, the statistics in relation to non-communicable diseases are pretty shocking. as mr busuttil said, 86% of all deaths in the european union are caused by these diseases; it is equally shocking that 97% of the money is spent on trying to cure these diseases and only 3% is spent on trying to prevent them. it is an old adage that ‘prevention is better than cure’. obviously, we need to do far more in the field of prevention. we need lifestyles to change, admittedly, but we need to do an awful lot in relation to research, because these diseases are on the rise. respiratory diseases, such as asthma and non-communicable pulmonary diseases, are all on the rise and need to be included in research programmes. this is necessary with a view to improving people’s health across the european union, but also because the world economic forum has identified non-communicable diseases as one of the great threats to economic development.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and those who drafted this resolution. i think there is agreement that we need, both for financial reasons and for the welfare of our citizens, to do more about these diseases. i was glad that mrs klaß mentioned the words ‘personal responsibility’. no matter how many fine words or how much legislation or whatever, if we do not actually encourage people to take responsibility for their own health, i am afraid that much of what we are writing and talking about will fail. i think that we need to look at medical schools and the medical profession, as well as the pharmaceutical profession, because there is money in treating the sick. people go to their doctors when they are ill, not when they are well, and maybe that is where the problem is. if we went to a doctor in order to stay well and get advice on how to do that, we would have better outcomes. if we also got consistent advice on lifestyle choices, that would be excellent. lastly, could we better implement the smoking ban in this house and show some leadership? (applause)
i scríbhinn. – tá méadú ag teacht ar ghalair ainsealacha cosúil le galair chardashoithíocha agus, le daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois, is cosúil gur in olcas a rachaidh an scéal. fós níl straitéis chomónta eorpach ann chuige seo. i measc na ngalar cardashoithíoch, is iad na strócanna is marfaí. bíonn an scéal go holc dóibh siúd a thagann as beo freisin: bíonn míchumas ar dhá thrian díobh. faigheann 4.3 milliún duine bás ó strócanna san eoraip gach bliain. maraíonn strócanna níos mó daoine ná mar a dhéanann ailse. ní mór go spreagfadh an rún seo an ae agus na ballstáit chun bearta láidre a ghlacadh a rachaidh chun leasa na n-othar agus na gcúramóirí. ní mór do straitéis an ae díriú ar bhearta coisctheacha. faoi láthair, is ar chóracha leighis a chaitear 97% de bhuiséad an leighis, agus ní infheistítear ach 3% i mbearta coisctheacha. ag cruinniú ardleibhéil na na maidir le galair neamhtheagmhálacha an tseachtain seo chugainn, ní foláir don choimisiún eorpach a chur in iúl go láidir nár chóir neamhaird a dhéanamh den scéal a thuilleadh. d’fhéadfadh bearta coisctheacha, fáthmheas luath, agus bainistíocht éifeachtach na milliúin duine a shábháil ón mbás gach bliain san eoraip agus sa domhan mór.
madam president, i support the revolutionary movement against the assad dictatorship. the brutal character of that regime has been very clearly demonstrated by the regime’s own actions. it has massacred thousands of people, disappeared thousands, tortured thousands. many horrific stories have circulated, including the fact that they have used snipers against government soldiers in order to in turn force the government soldiers to fire on protestors. however, the crocodile tears of us president obama and other imperialist leaders should be rejected for the self-interested posturing which they are. the opposition movement has correctly rejected any call for imperialist intervention, because any intervention – like that in libya – would simply be for their own interests. only a mass movement of the syrian people cutting across ethnic and religious lines can develop the movement forward and can ensure a clean break with the regime and no strengthening of imperialism. a democratic government representing the mass of the syrian people is needed – a workers’ and poor peasants’ government. such a government, on the basis of democratic control and ownership of the key sectors of the economy, could use the country’s massive resources to raise the living standards of all.
a uachtaráin, bhí sé feiliúnach gur phléamar an t-ábhar tábhachtach seo ar maidin agus gur ghlacamar beagnach d’aon ghuth leis na moltaí a bhí romhainn ó chianaibh. madam president, there is a well-known proverb which says ‘give me a fish and you will feed me for a day, teach me to fish and you will feed me for life’. in the spirit of that proverb, i think one area where we can make a huge difference is in the area of irrigation. i did some voluntary work in africa, and i saw how even the most rudimentary irrigation systems could turn barren and infertile land into rich productive soil, whereas adjacent lands that did not have any irrigation remained barren. i think that, in the spirit of that, we should home in on the opportunities that irrigation provides for alleviating famine into the future.
madam president, these diseases are unbelievably detrimental to modern life and particularly when we consider that 50% of those who die are dying in their productive years. copd alone is costing the world economy eur 280 billion a year. it is quite obvious that we have to do a lot of work in this regard, particularly to prevent these diseases – research, etc. – but i think we need to go further. we need firstly to have targets for member states to reduce the preponderance of these diseases in their countries, and we also need to coordinate an approach by which best practice can be utilised in all member states. we do not have time to wait. the sooner we act, the better it will be for the economy, for people’s health and indeed for people’s social lives.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which calls on the new libyan authorities to build a unified, democratic and pluralist state in which human rights, fundamental freedoms and justice will be guaranteed. the resolution urges the national transitional council to launch a national reconciliation process without delay and to include women and young people in all decision-making bodies. it also underlines the importance of investigating all human rights violations – on both sides of the conflict. it also calls on the ntc to respect international humanitarian laws on prisoners of war and to protect the rights of minority and vulnerable groups. i welcome the fact that the eu has quickly established an office in tripoli and i call on the high representative for external policies and the european external action service (eeas) to be ready to respond to libyan requests for assistance in the transition towards democracy, ensuring the necessary coordination among member states, so that national agendas do not overshadow a coherent eu political strategy, so that there are no doubts about the european respect for the sovereignty of the libyan people and to enable the un’s role of coordinating international assistance to help libya rebuild its economy and institutions.
in writing. − having participated in an irish delegation to bahrain to investigate alleged human rights abuses in july 2011, i have witnessed with my own eyes the frightening results of authoritarian governments acting swiftly and brutally against their own people. the actions taken by bahraini authorities pale in comparison to the systematic and illegal brutality unleashed by the syrian forces. in bahrain, the pressure exerted by our delegation appears to have had some small positive impact, playing a part in the recent release of wrongfully imprisoned medics. while we continue to monitor the situation in bahrain, i feel compelled to join my alde colleagues in this attempt to maintain europe's focus on the terrifying, continuing, serious and systematic violations of human rights occurring in syria. i wish to echo in the strongest possible terms the call for further eu action in response to the deteriorating situation in syria, including harsher measures against the syrian regime and those loyal to the regime, in particular by freezing direct investments from within the eu in key sectors of the syrian economy.
in writing. − i welcome this report regarding the gap between existing anti-corruption legislation and reality. it is estimated by the commission that roughly eur 120 billion per year is lost by european institutions to corruption. to put this in context, this is almost exactly equivalent to the entire gdp of my home country, ireland, for 2010. the problem of corruption is not merely financial, it also undermines trust in public institutions, public officials and the rule of law more generally. we must address both apparent and unapparent barriers to the prevention of corruption. in particular we need to encourage member states to make international and regional anti-corruption instruments enforceable. we also suggest the harmonisation of legislation concerning whistle-blowers and the implementation of the oecd convention on the prevention of bribery to foreign public officials by both public and private sector organisations.
i scríbhinn. − ní raibh gorta chomh dona leis seo le 60 bliain anuas. tá 750,000 duine i mbaol báis ón ocras agus tá bia de dhíth go práinneach ag 13.3 milliún duine sa tsomáil, san aetóip, sa chéinia, san eiritré agus i ndjibouti. déanann cogaí intíre agus idirnáisiúnta, athrú aeráide, fás tapa an daonra, easpa bhonneagair, acmhainní ganna, gréasáin trádála saofa agus costas ard na dtráchtearraí an scéal níos measa fós. is sa tsomáil is measa atá an scéal, le leath den phobal ag brath ar chúnamh bia, le 1.4 milliún duine easáitithe ina dtír féin agus tuairisc ag teacht ó unicef maidir le 780,000 páiste atá míchothaithe go dona i ndeisceart na tíre. tá 860,000 dídeanaí i ndiaidh teitheadh ón tsomáil go tíortha cosúil leis an gcéinia agus an aetóip. is é an campa dídeanaithe i ndadaab na céinia an campa dídeanaithe is mó ar domhan. meastar go bhfuil 440,000 duine ina chónaí ann. tá an caighdeán beatha sa champa ag dul in olcas lá i ndiaidh lae. ní foláir, mar sin, go gcuirfí na moltaí atá sa tuarascáil seo i bhfeidhm gan mhoill.
in writing. − while the world's focus has primarily been on the growing refugee camps in ethiopia, kenya and djibouti, primarily due to a higher concentration of media in those regions, it is imperative that the eu recognise that the greatest potential humanitarian catastrophe bar none remains in somalia, where irish charity goal estimates there are approximately four million of the worst affected people, most of them unable to leave because of illness or the threat of armed violence. the onus now is on the international community to create a safe environment in somalia which will permit all relevant agencies and authorities to spearhead a meaningful relief effort. to that end, i join my colleagues in recognising the african union's commitments to the humanitarian operation including the amisom peacekeeping mission, though more needs to be done. thus far, only 9 000 african union peacekeepers of a promised 20 000 have been deployed in somalia. however, these actions can only achieve a lasting and meaningful legacy if they are underpinned by a broader strategic blueprint for stabilising the region, primarily somalia. i therefore welcome this resolution's call for an eu strategy for the region which outlines political objectives and how individual humanitarian, development, security and military measures correspond and interlink.
i scríbhinn. − is iad galair ainsealacha a bhíonn mar chúis le 86% de bhásanna san eoraip gach bliain. as na galair ainsealacha ar fad, is iad na galair chardashoithíocha, na galair riospráide, an ailse agus an diaibéiteas na galair is comónta. fearaim lánfháilte roimh an rún seo a iarrann ar an ae agus ar bhallstáit an aontais tacú le cúig thiomantas thábhachtacha agus a chinntiú go mbeidh an cúig phointe sin san áireamh sa ráiteas polaitiúil a fhoilseofar ag cruinniú ardleibhéil na na maidir le galair ainsealacha an mhí seo.
in writing. − i supported this report as i think it outlines a number of practical steps that can be taken to prevent and control non- communicable diseases. in particular, i support the proposal to conduct further research on diabetes. this is a silent disease and the numbers suffering from diabetes continues to rise at a very worrying rate. health promotion will be hugely important in disease prevention. this is especially relevant give the fact that many people are living longer and therefore more likely to suffer from diabetes or indeed some of the other non-communicable diseases.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution in advance of the un high-level meeting on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, as these account for the vast majority of deaths in europe. cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, cancer and diabetes, among others, are very closely related to a number of common risk factors in modern societies. tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets, lack of physical exercise and exposure to pollution often lead to otherwise preventable chronic diseases and premature deaths. health expenditure, however, is overwhelmingly channelled to treatment, and we sorely lack investment in the prevention of these conditions, which the world health organisation now regards as a global epidemic. we need bold preventative measures, which are not only the most cost effective, but also bring positive knock-on effects on overall health, lifestyles, the environment, and even socio-economic equality. the same goes for early diagnosis strategies.
mr president, the arrest and imprisonment of ales bialatski on 4 august is just another example of the appalling abuse of human rights and the criminal justice system. hopefully, in some respects it might be the last dying acts of a doomed regime because, as we have seen with the arab spring and the fall of dictator gaddafi, people are now beginning to rise up against dictators. certainly that is to be encouraged. i also think that having such a wonderful human rights defender imprisoned on the basis of tax evasion is totally and utterly unacceptable. if he were accused of murder or rape or something else, then maybe there would be a small excuse for putting him in prison prior to trial. in this situation that is not the case. we should set a deadline and, after that, put in graduated sanctions so that this regime is brought to book.
mr president, amnesty international’s senior crisis response adviser, donatella rovera, has been quoted as saying: ‘the sudanese government is literally getting away with murder and trying to keep the outside world from finding out. the international community, and particularly the un security council, must stop looking the other way and act to address the situation.’ at least we are doing that here today. on 9 july, southern sudan became the world’s newest state but, as often happens, peace does not follow in such situations. the great irish patriot, michael collins, observed this in 1921 when he said ‘border land is trouble and always will be’. he himself was killed in the subsequent civil war that occurred over border land. the fact that southern kordofan has 80% of sudanese oil reserves means that the stakes are pretty high here, and the issue will be difficult to resolve. nevertheless, we have to try to get a peace and put an end to the aerial bombardment so that people can sow their crops and get on with their lives.
mr president, eritrea is rated 175th out of 175 nations for press freedom and we have seen today why. we know why, but what are we doing about it? this situation is absolutely appalling. one of our own – a wonderfully talented man, a playwright, writer, journalist – is lying in prison with no charge, no trial, no sentence, no visitors, very little food and water – and we do nothing about it. we engage in quiet diplomacy. well, if we continue on in quiet diplomacy this man will be dead shortly. i think we are undermining ourselves as an authority in the eu, and i think we should give a deadline to the eritrean authorities to release this man, or else we should consider discussing asking nato troops to go in and release him.
a uachtaráin, luadh alán pointí suimiúla anseo um thráthnóna agus bhí áthas orm go háirithe faoin méid a dúirt an coimisinéir faoi na pointí gur chóir dúinn béim a chur orthu sa todhchaí. i think if we needed a reminder of the perilous state we in europe are in, we got it this weekend with top economists around the world telling us to get our act together, and saying if we did not pull together we would probably fall apart. solving the economic crisis is one thing in the short term; in the long term we need growth, we need jobs, and research and innovation are going to be crucial in that regard. for that reason i think the commissioner is absolutely correct in saying that we need to emphasise simplification, we need to make it easier for women and young people in particular to get access to research funding, and in particular we need to be close to society’s challenges. that is the most important point of all, because there is not much point in doing research on such wonderful topics as the sex life of the toad if it does not lead to jobs and growth in the long term.
in writing. – i support this new trade agreement with the palestinian authority which will give farm and fishery produce from palestine duty free access to the european market. the palestinian authority is the eu’s smallest trading partner: exports from the two territories to the eu totalled just eur 6.1 million in 2009. the trade agreement has the potential to help the region to develop economically. however, there remain two serious obstacles to economic development. firstly, the illegal blockade of gaza suffocates economic life there reducing a population of 1.5 million to a subsistence existence dependent on an under-funded unrwa for food, work and education. secondly, there are serious ‘origin’ concerns about products manufactured in israeli settlements on occupied palestinian land gaining access to the european market under the eu-israel trade agreement. following the ecj 2010 ruling on the brita case, the customs authorities of the importing member states may refuse to grant the preferential treatment provided for under the euro-mediterranean agreement where the goods concerned originate in settlements.
mr president, like many speakers, i too am a little bit disappointed at the tone of the commissioner’s response to this very important topic. not having been here in the last parliamentary term, i am amazed at what mr caspary said about this being the first time we are discussing taiwan. when you consider that taiwan is our fourteenth-largest trading partner and that we discuss so many topics here over the year, yet we never got around in the last seven or eight years to discuss eu and taiwan trade, it is a welcome development that we are discussing it now. but i think the message has to go out loud and clear that we want a little more action, a little more pluck, from the commission than what we have seen and certainly from what we have heard this evening. i get the impression that there is reluctance, that china might not be happy with us if we are engaging too much with taiwan. yes, as the earl said, we can have a good relationship with china, we want to have a good relationship with china, but that must not in any way impede us from having a good relationship with taiwan and developing trade links with taiwan. we have much to gain. they have much to gain. as was pointed out, the balance favours them at the moment and certainly, by having a trade agreement with them, we can redress that balance and ensure that both economies can develop. as i have said, i would like a little more pluck, a little more adventure and a little more courage. we have nothing to be afraid of. we have a lot to gain. so has taiwan and probably, ultimately, china as well.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, as the commissioner pointed out, the lisbon treaty now gives us a legal basis and the confidence to do something on tourism at a europe-wide level, which was not there before. certainly it is an opportunity we are right to grasp. europe is the number one tourist destination in the world. it contributes 12% of employment to the european union and 10% to gdp and, as the commissioner pointed out, there is a great opportunity to grow that even further. europe is rich in all sorts of attractions for tourists and this can be developed. from the cultural point of view, we are very pleased that a number of initiatives are already very successful, such as the european cities of culture, the european cultural roots programme – st james’ way being the shining example – the european heritage label and, in recent times, the european cities of sport. i particularly want to highlight the importance of sport because, both from a participative and also from a spectator’s point of view, it has huge potential. last weekend the solheim cup, which is the female version of the ryder cup, was held in my own country, where europe had an outstanding win. i think opportunities to grow sport, particularly water sports, can be developed right across europe. so we have a great opportunity; there are projects and targets. let us go at it because it can do a great deal for the economy.
mr president, at the last plenary session i raised the issue of talktalk’s plan to close its call centre in waterford with the loss of up to 575 jobs at just 30 days’ notice. following this, the company wrote to me with a thinly-veiled threat of legal action. they copied their letter to the eu commissioner for employment, social affairs and inclusion, lászló andor, whom i had asked to verify the company’s compliance with eu employment legislation. this amounts to serious interference with my parliamentary duty to raise matters of public concern and with my right to do so as a member of the european parliament in this house without fear of legal reprisal. mr president, i would request that you write to the company asserting the right of members of the european parliament to defend their constituents’ interests.
madam president, after my visit to kazakhstan on behalf of the european united left group, the government launched a slanderous campaign against me. that included the fabrication of a statement by the chair of the central asia delegation, and now an official communication to the eu from kazakhstan suggesting that i broke kazakhstan criminal law by creating social discord and declaring that ‘the republic of kazakhstan has the right to declare the abovementioned officials’ – referring to myself and my political adviser – ‘as persona non grata’. why have they taken this approach? because i supported the heroic oil workers who have been on strike for four months now, fighting for decent wages and conditions, fighting for the right to an independent and free trade union, workers who have faced violent repression from company thugs, from state forces. two people have now been murdered – a trade unionist and the daughter of a trade unionist. natalia sokolova, the lawyer of the workers, has been jailed for six years for stirring up social conflict. that was again reinforced today when a farcical appeal took place and her prison sentence was confirmed. i call on international trade unionists and activists to step up the campaign against the company, against the government, to support these workers.
in writing. – firstly i would like to raise concern regarding paragraph 63 which calls for the phasing-out of export subsidies and other incentives in the cap. i will vote against. many imported agriculture products are non-sustainable and the phasing out of cap incentives would kill local eu production, which is a stated aim of the rapporteur. it would put eu agriculture at a complete disadvantage. the eu agri-industry must comply with extremely stringent safety regulations; without subsidies we cannot expect the industry to compete with imports and so we would start a race to the bottom of the food chain! i welcome the steps this report takes to highlight food wastage. the food and agriculture organisation estimates that there were 925 million hungry people in the world in 2010. meanwhile in europe about 89 million tonnes of food is wasted every year. that is 179 kg per person! this is a situation which cannot be allowed to continue. our colossal wastage of food represents our inefficient use and management of food resources; successful commitments to fight poverty and hunger worldwide must begin by addressing our terrible wastage of food. our right to food must be accompanied with a duty not to waste food.
madam president, the statistics quoted by mr caspary are rather frightening – from 25% of gdp in 2000, now the european union will have only 18% by 2020, from 19% of world exports in 1999 to 17% of world exports in 2009, and yet the union’s population is due to increase 5% by 2035 – all pointing to a poorer, and therefore less influential, european union. it is time for action, and aggressive action at that. i would note that two committees – the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on development – both point to the need to reduce the existing trade deficit with china and have increased access to this expanding market. that is certainly an area we need to address and address fairly quickly. our ftas, such as the one we have with korea, also need to be expanded.
mr president, on a point of order: you mentioned that 49 people had submitted questions and that approximately eight would be taken. i think it would be helpful if you could read out the names of those likely to be taken. there is no point in 30 people sitting around if their turn will not come.
member of the commission. − we have recently been proposing a new scheme for the gsp that should come to fruition, and for decision in this parliament, by the end of next year. obviously, in drafting the gsp proposal, we have duly taken into account the development aspects of this specific tool. the idea is that we would limit the number of countries so we can concentrate much more on those which are more in need of these unilateral deductions. however, there are also a lot of other schemes which are sometimes, by the way, much more advantageous – for example the ‘everything but arms’ scheme for ldcs. we also believe that at a certain moment in time it is very important to have reciprocal arrangements and obligations so that you can really develop trade. we certainly bear this in mind, and already did so when drafting the proposal. we will certainly do so when discussing it with you further.
my question relates to the mercosur trade deal. according to the commission’s preliminary assessment, it is estimated that european union beef prices will fall by 8% and that meat production in the european union will fall by eur 3 billion in value if this deal goes ahead, with an estimated loss of 33 000 agricultural jobs in the european union. how does the commission respond to claims that european agriculture, farmers and the agrifood sector are to be sacrificed in order to secure the mercosur trade agreement? can the commission clearly outline what specific benefits this trade deal will bring to european farmers, particularly beef farmers?
member of the commission. − we are not sacrificing anything. what we are trying to do is to negotiate a balanced deal with mercosur, taking into account the interests of the farming community, as well as our very important export of industrial products to mercosur, the markets with respect to services, and european investments in the mercosur countries. we are by far the most important investor in those countries and we will try to get to a balanced deal. we cannot make much progress at the present time because, as a result of – let us say – internal political agendas in mercosur, we have decided to wait for the exchange of offers. this will take some time but, in the meantime, we are already addressing the problems that you have raised. for example, there is the commission proposal that the globalisation adjustment fund would also be eligible for farmers.
another supplementary. our competitors are outstripping us in agricultural trade in the growing and new markets of china, south korea and japan amongst others. what action is the commission taking to instigate and develop trade deals with third countries that will be advantageous to european farmers, and what framework is being developed to put in place trade deals which would suit agriculture in european farming for greater access to the growing markets of china, south korea and japan, where european agricultural produce is in high demand?
member of the commission. − this is not really a supplementary question but a completely new topic. we are doing this, for example, in any trade deal that we are pursuing, we try to introduce the protection of geographical indications, indications that are very important for european agricultural exports. for example, we have been opening new markets for farmers with respect to south korea. we are not yet negotiating with japan but we are in the scoping exercise. with china, this is part of an overall trading relationship that is not governed by any specific arrangement or by a specific treaty.
like my colleague, mr aylward, i want to ask a question about the proposed mercosur trade deal, but from a different angle. the chalmers university of technology in sweden published a report this year which showed that beef coming from brazil has carbon emissions of 700 kilograms per kilogram of beef, taking into account deforestation, etc. the corresponding figure for grass-based production in europe, especially in my own country and others, is 20 kilograms of co2 per kilogram of beef. that is 35 times higher for brazilian beef. bearing in mind this fact, and our commitment to reduce co2 emissions in the 2020 strategy, how can we even countenance a proposal to have agriculture included in a mercosur deal, especially beef products?
member of the commission. − honourable member, we do, of course, keep in mind the environment when we negotiate trade deals. i understand why this kind of remark is made. i am not aware of the specific study carried out by the swedish university. however, when you compare farming in mercosur and in europe, there are of course huge differences. what we have to look at, and what is also our limit, is what is enforceable within the wto. for instance, the example that you gave – provided that it is completely correct, which i do not doubt but cannot confirm either – does certainly not come within the scope of the wto. we should also look at the global balance with respect to climate change. the commission and ms hedegaard are taking a leading role in this respect and are making the most advanced proposals by far at international conferences about climate change, for example at the club 17 in a couple of months.
i have a supplementary. is the commissioner aware of the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth in paraguay? would this not also cause us to rethink a proposed deal, including agriculture, given the laxity of controls across borders, etc., and the difficulty of monitoring those? or would this not cause us, at the very least, in terms of the latin phrase festina lente, to hasten slowly?
member of the commission. − i was in paraguay some months ago, but the disease had not yet broken out then. having said that, you know very well what the framework is. if there is a connection with health, then we can enforce against first countries. that is part of wto case law. if that is the case, we will certainly do so.
member of the commission. − the case before the wto was about dual pricing, namely that china obtained prices for local consumption and production that were different from the prices for exports, by imposing export duties and enforcing a quota. what the wto panel has been deciding – the matter is now before the appellate body, so we will have to wait for the final decision – is that the justification that china was giving was not correct. the justification was for environmental reasons. the panel said that, if the environmental reasons were valid for export, they were also valid locally, so this was not a valid answer to the questions put by the european union, the united states and mexico. that is what we have been enforcing. i hope this will have an impact on the rare earth materials. we already see that: quotas are not going down and prices are going down. regarding your specific question with respect to weaker countries, first of all we have launched this case against china because the trade with china in raw materials is of paramount importance. i do not think we would immediately start such a case against whatever small country you might have in mind because what we are worried about is of course the global balance in the trade in raw materials.
member of the commission. − mr leichtfried, i do not think that will happen. i explained what the judgment by the panel was about. it was about abusing the environmental elements in it – the environmental explanation. however, if a country were to say, for example, that it could not export because it only had that kind of production and had a traditional industry which was using it, i see no reason why if ever there were a case before the wto then the wto would take the same kind of decision. you have to look at the specific case of course. let me assure you that this is not on our minds, and is not what we are going to pursue. what we want to secure is that china treats on an equal basis their internal production and world production. that is all.
member of the commission. − it is a very serious case and the commission is definitely doing everything possible. i have written letters and i am trying to get an official visit at which i could meet the president and raise this issue. as concerns our development cooperation, at this stage practically nothing is moving. there is no positive response to our initiatives from the eritrean side. we will continue to pursue the case because it is very clear that the eritrean people are our target for development aid. we should not let them down, but political issues also need to be handled with the eritrean government.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have always said that i officially wanted to go to eritrea, but at that stage none of the leadership was ready to meet me, stating continually that they were out of the country. we are continuing to pursue these attempts to visit the country and i will be going as soon as i have a definite guarantee of access to the leadership of the country. that is an absolute precondition so that my visit could have some type of result. i have not stopped activities, but you need two to tango. i would first need a positive response that president isaias will agree to meet me before arranging to visit eritrea.
member of the commission. − we have repeatedly discussed the acta agreement and the acta negotiations over the last year. we will, of course, continue to do so. within a reasonable time, the agreement will come to you for ratification. let me repeat what i have already said a dozen times before this parliament. this is not about changing the material law on intellectual property rights in europe. it is about enforcement. it is about creating the possibility, on a wider scale, to enforce intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights are important, especially for a very mature economy like ours. i know that there is opposition. i know that we will have to face that opposition, but i trust that, in the end, you will agree.
member of the commission. − we can build all kinds of things into trade agreements and we do so, provided that both sides agree. we are presently discussing trade agreements with a number of african countries – the so-called economic partnership agreements – and one of the general reservations – if i may say – is that most african countries ask that services not be discussed because the first one to put their act together ... and if they do not want to do so, we do not discuss services with them. if they want to do so, we discuss services with them. we do this with a view to the development of those societies. by the way, there is no direct link with acta because acta is a plurilateral agreement which is only binding upon the signatories and there are no developing countries that are signatories to this agreement.
member of the commission. − this is a very general question indeed. i believe that, when you make trade agreements, you make trade relations more transparent and, to the extent that trade relations become more transparent, the playing field for corruption shrinks. i believe that well drafted and balanced free trade agreements help to eradicate this very difficult topic of corruption that is very widespread throughout the world. we try to contribute to that. i cannot answer the specific question that you are posing because i am not aware of the figures that you have mentioned. by the way, not all money that is wired into a bank account is necessarily the result of corruption; it could also, for example, be the result of making a profit.
member of the commission. − just one sentence: if we can only negotiate with those countries that are corruption-free, then from tomorrow i will have a part-time job. i pass the floor to mrs georgieva. (interjection from mr deva: ‘i said “start!”’)
member of the commission. − i would like to add that the european union and our member states have been very active in supporting the stolen assets recovery initiative. these are initiatives that bring this issue to the forefront. they enforce more transparency in developing countries. we will continue to support actions and initiatives of this nature.
commissioner de gucht, earlier on you said that the colombian government was acting in good faith in the human rights field. you also said the same about the former colombian government of uribe. however, the colombian high court of justice has now established definitively that that government was working hand in hand with the death squads responsible for killing hundreds of trade unionists, including by directly fingering trade unionists to be murdered. i would like to ask you: how many more trade unionists and how many more human rights offenders have to be killed before your attitude is changed and before the fta is halted? secondly, i would ask you for a response to the decision by the british trades union congress to campaign against the eu-india fta and mode 4. it decided to oppose it on the grounds that it will be almost impossible to enforce employment rights for indian workers. in effect, it leads to a race to the bottom in terms of wages and conditions, and will act to undermine collective agreements and trade union organisation.
member of the commission. − i think it is very important, when you want the rule of law to be respected, that you have an independent judiciary. that is why i think, as a politician, that we should not comment on decisions by the judiciary. we should take note of them and we should put them into practice. obviously there the supreme court has rendered a judgment that we will keep in mind in further discussions with colombia. on the other hand, i must say – and of course i may be mistaken, i am only a human being – that, from what i have seen with the uribe government and now again with the santos government, they are making real efforts to advance the cause of human rights. i can only say that and i think i have enough arguments to defend that case. but of course, mr president, i would then need a little more time on mode 4. mode 4 is about exchanging personnel within an organisation and it really means that a number of indian workers could be active in the european union. these are not enormous figures and, as it is within the organisation of a company or within the organisation of a multinational, i cannot see why this would infringe on workers’ rights in europe.
i find it hard to see how you can say that real efforts are being made in colombia when the killings of trade unionists continue at the same pace that they have continued. between 2000 and 2010 over 60% of all trade unionists killed in the world were killed in colombia, yet we are supposed to believe that real efforts are being made somehow. yes, we should take note of the decision that has been made by the colombian court. the key people surrounding uribe are now in jail because of this collaboration. does this not have any impact in terms of your assessment that these people are operating in good faith when it comes to the question of human rights?
i welcome this agreement which, if implemented, could provide a level of assistance for the palestinian people. however, we have to recognise reality here and the reality is that its impact will be extremely limited because the problem is not simply goods entering the european markets but goods exiting the occupied territories in the first place. the collective punishment of the blockade of gaza has inflicted a humanitarian catastrophe on the people of gaza. eighty per cent of people now are reliant on food aid. unemployment is at 45% and 300 000 people are forced to try and survive on less than one dollar a day. also the economy has been deliberately destroyed by israeli actions. before the blockade, over 700 trucks used to leave gaza with exports on a daily basis, today less than 2% of the pre-blockade level of exports exist and simply tons and tons of fruit and flour are rotting and so, if the eu is serious about assisting the palestinian people, gestures like this are simply not enough. it must end its complicity with the israeli occupation.
mr president, like others, i am very happy to support this report on trade in agriculture and fishery products between the european union and palestine. it is a very timely report, given that palestine is very much on the global agenda. when we look at the problems that palestinian farmers face, we know there are problems for many farmers around the globe but in palestine there are particular difficulties – simple but huge difficulties – in accessing water, land and of course accessing markets, which is why this agreement is hugely significant. it means that we can help development through trade and – as others have said – it will not have any negative impacts for european union agriculture. there is also the issue of standards. while the palestinians are very keen to meet our standards, they also have to meet israeli standards that are not the same as european union ones. we need to see some progress in this area.
mr president, i am very happy with this report but wish to bring to the attention of this house an event that i was involved in recently in the commission on food safety research and innovation spending, a conference that was not just telling us the results but seeing how it could be put into practice. while we are often very critical of ourselves, and indeed the commission, it was noteworthy that the chinese delegation that spoke at this event put on screen its plans for food safety legislation and it looked like a mirror of what the european union has already in place. so we do sometimes lead very much from the front and therefore what we do is positive. my last comment is to pick up on my colleague, mr la via, in relation to agriculture research. we need to refocus on productivity because the world has to start being able to produce more from less and in particular around food security that must be a priority in our future research.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótail ar son na tuarascála seo agus tá a lán dea-mholtaí ann. ba mhaith liom díriú ar ghné amhain, agus is é sin sláinte ár ndaoine. now mr rhode made a very interesting point. he said that europe was good at research but not in innovation. this came home very clearly to me recently when i chaired here in parliament a hearing on it and the future of medicine, where many billions have been spent on research and medicine but the prevalence of the major disease continues to rise. therefore there is need for a change of tactics and, hopefully, with this programme, which will be coming before the commission in due course, research and innovation will produce a different approach where we can deal with the patient as the virtual patient with specific diagnosis and specific remedies as opposed to the generic which we have at present.
mr president, cohesion and structural funds are very much a sign of european solidarity so it is important that this funding is properly used and used in the best possible way. but, as this report points out, there are huge problems in relation to member states accessing this funding and coming up with the necessary cofinancing that is required. one of the problems this creates is in the public mindset. when we hear announcements of major funding being made available from the european union budget and the public read these stories, later to read that some of this funding has not been accessed, there is a delay in getting access to it, or they themselves have problems in trying to access funding, that creates a negative attitude towards the european union. we do need to make these funds work for the betterment of citizens and therefore the recommendations of this report should be implemented.
mr president, i supported this report, but there are two issues i would like to draw attention to. first of all, there are the over-complicated and over-strict procedures that are often involved. i have community and voluntary groups coming to me all the time, talking about the complexity and also the inconsistency of the rules – then the changes in the rules and, furthermore, the interpretation of the changes in the rules. people are tearing their hair out with frustration. another issue that a lot of community groups have a problem with is late payments. i know many community groups that are going to the wall because they are awaiting payments from european funds. there is another very important issue that we need to look at, and that is the issue of intermediate regions. when we are determining eligibility, it is important that we use the most up-to-date figures. it looks as if we might end up using 2008 gdp figures to determine eligibility for cohesion funding post 2013. that is simply not acceptable in the current situation. up to now, a lot of regions’ gdp was increasing but, of course, now, because of the economic crisis, a number of regions’ gdp is decreasing and we will find that in 2010 and 2011 it will be lower than it was in 2007 and 2008. so, it is crucial that we use the most up-to-date figures to ensure that the regions that need cohesion funding are those that get it.
mr president, it seems to me that it is in times of calm that we should prepare for the next crisis. we are doing this with regret on the economy. we need to do it equally when there are disasters, which this report deals with. yes, prevention is our priority – as it should be – in order to minimise problems in all member states. just a word in relation to voluntary effort: very often, when there is a disaster in a member state, it is the local community itself which responds most rapidly. we need to better coordinate the national and eu response, working on the ground with local communities. finally, we need to make the emergency response number 112 more widely known to our citizens, so that it is used.
a uachtaráin, votáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo mar feictear domsa go bhfuil an tionscal róthábhachtach don gheilleagar san aontas eorpach. mar gheall ar airteageal 195 de chonradh lispóin, is inniúlacht nua é an t-ábhar seo agus fáiltím é seo. táimse cinnte gur tús maith é an tuarascáil seo chun todhchaí an tionscal seo a chinntiú amach anseo. tá ról lárnach ag an tionscal seo jabanna a chruthú go háitiúil, agus cuidiú le fás geilleagrach. in éirinn mar shampla, is fiú an tionscal deich faoin gcéad dár n-olltáirgeacht náisiúnta, agus tá níos mó ná dó dhéag faoin gcéad den fhórsa oibre fostaithe sa tionscal turasóireachta, nó i dtionscal spleách. tá cur chuige comhtháite ag teastáil maidir leis an tionscal san aontas eorpach. níl an taontas eorpach ag déanamh a dhóthain ceapaim féin faoi fhadhb an ró-oifigiúlachais maidir le hiarratais víosa agus tá an-ghá le córas simplithe chun víosaí turasóireachta a fháil san aontas eorpach uile.
a uachtaráin, tugann conradh liospóin seans dúinn anois polasaí a chur ar bun ar mhaithe le tionscal na turasóireachta agus feicimid sa tuarascáil seo straitéis chun é sin a dheanamh. is é an taontas eorpach príomháit cuairte turasóirí ar domhan agus caithfimid é a choinneáil mar sin. in áiteanna áirithe tagann turasóirí ann go nádúrtha. sa deisceart, tá an ghrian acu, tá an fharraige acu agus mar sin de. bhí mé féin sa róimh i rith an tsamhraidh agus ba léir cén fáth go raibh na turasóirí ag teacht ann ar laethanta saoire. ach i gcodanna eile den eoraip, go háirithe, sa tuaisceart, níl na buntáistí céanna acu. níl mórán gréine acu agus níl an fharraige acu. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid cabhrú leis na tíortha sin, go háirithe chun an séasúr a leathnú amach agus caithfimid béim a chur ar imeachtaí atá bunaithe ar spórt. tá an-seans againn é sin a dhéanamh amach anseo.
a uachtaráin, caithfimid a thuiscint go gcailltear 38,000 duine go bliantúil de bharr timpistí bóithre san aontas eorpach. is uafásach an figiúr é seo agus feictear domsa go bhfuil sé róthábhachtach minicíocht na ndíobhálacha marfacha agus tromchúiseacha a laghdú agus feabhas a chur ar shábháilteacht ar ár mbóithre. caithfimid, mar eorpaigh, oibriú ar fad le chéile agus as lámh a chéile agus líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre a laghdú. caithfimid a admháil go bhfuil fadhb ollmhór againne maidir leis an méid tiománaithe a úsáideann téacsanna agus iad ag tiomáint ar bhóithre an aontais eorpaigh. méadaítear an seans go mbeidh timpiste an faoi thrí uair is fiche nuair a bhíonn an tiománaí ag féachaint ar scáileán a fhóin soghluaiste. tá mé an-bhuíoch go deo do mo chomhghleacaí an tuasal dieter-lebrecht koch as ucht an sár-obair a rinne sé agus as an tuarascáil seo a chur os ár gcomhair amach. táimid ag iarraidh úsáideoirí bóithre a chosaint, má tá an toil pholaitiúil ann, agus táimse den tuairim láidir go bhfuil, mar leiríonn an tuarascáil seo mar shampla, beidh muid in ann feabhas a chur ar sábháilteacht ar bhóithre
mr president, this is a very positive report. it is interesting that we are debating it following the protests over the weekend by european union motorcyclists. many came out in protest – certainly in ireland and in other member states – over what we would describe as positive initiatives regarding road safety for that particular sector of the commuting community. it is interesting to note that, in ireland, a motorcyclist is 12 times more likely to be killed than any other road user. there is clearly a problem in relation to the safety of this section of road users. i think we should try to work better with stakeholders, so that we do not have protests over something which we believe is important for overall road safety. some of the issues that were raised by the protestors may not be true, but we can address others when we move forward. let us involve those that we are trying to legislate for.
a uachtaráin, is ábhar an-tábhachtach é seo agus is uafásach an méid duine a mharaítear agus a ghortaítear ar bhóithre na heorpa ní amháin gach bliain ach gach lá. is feiliúnach rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi. mr president, regarding the support there are just two points i just want to make. one is that right across the european union, when it comes to speed limits, there is a complete variance from country to country. there should be coordination whereby the same quality of road, on the same motorway, would have the same speed limit right across europe. secondly, i find it very difficult to understand how there is no tapering system. i have seen places where you are expected to go from a 120 mile limit or a 120 kilometre limit to 60 automatically. i have seen people pulled over for going over the speed limit just inside the 60 sign. i think there should be a tapering system where you go from 100 to 90, to 80, to 70, to 60.
the food and agriculture organisation estimates that there were 925 million hungry people in the world in 2010. this is a terrible figure. while this represents a reduction of 1 023 million on the 2009 figure, there is strong evidence that food price increases during the last few months have already augmented that number for this year. meanwhile, in europe, about 89 million tonnes of food is wasted every year. that is 179 kg per person. without any prevention measures, it is expected that the total amount of wasted food will reach 126 million tonnes by the end of this decade. our colossal wastage of food represents an inefficient use and management of our food resources. successful commitments to fight poverty and hunger worldwide must begin by addressing our terrible wastage of food. our right to food must be accompanied by a duty not to waste food. in conclusion, i would say that i disagree totally with paragraph 63 of the report which calls for a complete phasing-out of export subsidies. this flies in the face of the rapporteur’s arguments that she wants local production for local use.
mr president, i support a lot of what is in this report on global food security. i think it is very important to remember that, as technology and innovation leap forward, we sometimes lose sight of the basics. of course, one of the basics that we need to remember is our need for food or food security, not just in developing countries but in the eu as well. one of the issues that we face at a global level is the financial speculation and trade in agricultural commodities. this simply worsens volatility; it means, at the end of the day, that many people go hungry. we also need to ensure greater transparency in the food chain to ensure a fair revenue for farmers. the primary producers are being squeezed; their share of the cake is getting smaller, and that cannot continue. my final comment – and, i think, a very important one – is that the right to food must always take precedence over energy security. in many countries, but particularly in africa, food security is being jeopardised by the development of agrofuels. we in the eu often clap ourselves on the back about our alternative energy targets, but we must recognise the price that others may pay for the targets that we set.
mr president, as someone who has authored a report on food security and the common agricultural policy and worked hard on this issue for seven years, i very much welcome the renewed emphasis on food security. those of us who can afford to buy food have taken for granted that there will always be a supply of food. of course we are targeting those parts of the world where there is real hunger, but there is also hunger within the european union. we have to tackle it at every significant level. i want to repeat a point i made in another explanation of vote. we are in a very serious situation, where agricultural productivity is declining because of a lack of focus on research and innovation and on transferring the knowledge gained to farmers on the ground. this is a problem within europe, but it is a particular problem for the developing world. we need to target research there, and we need to make sure that people get the knowledge gained by research and put it into practice in food production.
mr president, it may well be a coincidence that we are speaking on our trade policy following our explanation of vote on the zimmer report on food security, but there is a link, and those of us who have concerns about agriculture and food security would equally be concerned about the direction of europe’s trade policy. the inclusion of agriculture in the wto is of concern, and some of us are battling to have that looked at again in the light of our concerns over how the world will provide security of food supply to its citizens. we now have the emergence of bilateral trade agreements. they are second best to a global trade agreement and we must in each and every one of the bilateral trade agreements look beforehand at the likely impacts it will have, particularly on europe’s food security concerns. that is why, while we do look to the future and the issues around this report, i want to stress in particular my concerns around food security and trade.
in writing. − i support this resolution and the recognition of palestine as a formal trade partner and a distinct entity to our trade relations with israel. the palestinian economy is currently in crisis, something we in the eu understand all too well, and we must do all we can to assist them. by recognising palestine as a trading partner and opening our markets to its products we will be helping to ensure the economic future of the region and will boost the palestinian economy. allowing palestinian imports duty-free access to our markets will provide much needed support to producers and may help to tackle the widespread poverty and unemployment levels in the territory.
in writing. − i very much welcome this latest in a series of agreements as a result of the lisbon treaty. this should hopefully make air services more efficient, thus improving the environment and at the same time lowering the cost of air services for consumers.
in writing. − the current protocol expires after 4½ years. the european commission started negotiations in december 2010 on a new protocol to cover a period of another 3 years. the conclusion of the protocol by the council is subject to the prior consent of the european parliament. cape verde can be considered as one of the best performing countries in africa in terms of political, economic and social development. the fishery resources are not considerable, but they do include commercially important species of migratory fish such as tunas, small pelagic fish, and some demersal fish and lobsters. according to the evaluation report, the impact of the tuna fishing opportunities on sustainability is minimal. as the rapporteur, i recommend to give consent to the conclusion of the new protocol to the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, and i want to congratulate my constituency colleague pat the cope gallagher. some of the main elements of the new protocol which i am pleased with include specific payments for support for the development of the sectoral fisheries policy of the republic of cape verde. this is something i welcome. this new agreement also provides for fishing opportunities for 28 tuna seiners, 35 surface longliners and 11 pole-and-line vessels and advances and fees payable by ship-owners are also set out.
i scríbhinn. − is é an 7ú clár réime an clár taighde maoinithe is mó ar domhan agus maoiniú de bhreis is €53m ar fáil don thréimhse 2007-2013. tá an-leas bainte ag éirinn as an gclár, le €300m leithdháilte ar thaighdeoirí, ollscoileanna agus muintir na hearnála príobháidí éireannacha go dtí seo agus is cosúil gur €600m an méid a bheidh i gceist faoi deireadh an chláir. is cúnamh iontach ó thaobh poist a chruthú agus borradh inmharthana a spreagadh é an infheistiú sin, agus le cabhair an mhaoinithe chéanna fanfaidh éire agus an ae ar thús cadhnaíochta ó thaobh an taighde agus na nuála de. ní mór go leanfaí le dea-obair an chláir réime amach anseo agus ní foláir comhchreat straitéiseach a bhunadh chun maoiniú a chur ar fáil don taighde agus nuáil i ndiaidh 2013. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le gnotháis bheaga agus mheánmhéide, agus go mba chóir go mbeadh sé níos easca orthu maoiniú a fháil. chabhródh banc eorpach d’infheistíochtaí beaga agus meánmhéide, mar a mholtar sa tuarascáil, go mór chuige seo. ní mór go nglacfaí bearta de réir briathra na tuarascála chun an córas taighde agus nuála a fhorbairt agus rochtain ar an gclár a fheabhsú.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo toisc go n-iarrann sí ar na ballstáit an taighde agus an nuáil a spreagadh d’fhonn earnáil iascaireachta iomaíoch inmharthana suas-chun-dáta a fhorbairt. is spreagadh í do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide páirt a ghlacadh i gcláir taighde an ae freisin toisc go bhfuil togra inti maidir leis an gcóras mar atá a shimpliú agus an maorlathas a laghdú.
in writing. − i welcome this green paper on the challenges and opportunities in moving towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding. in particular i welcome the three-layered approach which this paper adopts. the first layer, which is infrastructural in nature, establishes a credible formula for building a capacity to research and innovate. the second layer provides a broad framework for the types of research in which we should invest. the final layer attempts to create a link between research undertaken, and the potential market for that research. furthermore, i welcome this paper’s focus on including smes in research and innovation programmes. as the backbone of our economy, it is important that this sector is adequately represented in all relevant research projects. the advocacy for soft loans and comprehensive financing models for research and development in the sme sector is also to be welcomed.
in writing. − the structural and cohesion funds are of immense use in tackling inequalities between member states and in assisting poorer regions to catch up with more affluent ones. however, there are a number of difficulties in the current economic climate in relation to finding resources at national and local level to co-finance projects under these schemes. this is something which must be addressed in order to ensure member states can continue to draw upon these funds. we must help poorer regions catch up with more affluent ones. it is also important for the eu to be flexible and capable of adapting its plans in light of the current economic situation. the report highlights the difficulties facing member states in accessing these funds, from difficulties in co-financing, to structural difficulties in accessing the funds and adhering to regulatory frameworks. we must ensure that these processes are simplified and that member states can continue to draw down these funds as required.
in writing. − i welcome this slim, concise report which epitomises eu solidarity and efficiency. this report is not about taking powers from member states but rather attempts to assist member states in disaster by information sharing and coordination of resources in order to act swiftly to save lives. there has been a huge increase in the number of disasters in the last 20 years: more than 90 000 people have died in disasters, over 29 million people have been affected by disasters, with an economic cost in excess of eur 211 billion. in 1975 78 disasters occurred, currently almost 400 disasters occur worldwide per annum. therefore we need a more organised response to disasters in order to save lives. disaster reduction is key to eu development and i sincerely welcome the attention which this report has drawn to this crucial area.
in writing. − i welcome this report on developing a stronger european disaster response. the need to move away from what this report describes as an ‘ad hoc’ policy towards emergency situations to a more pre-mediated and planned approach is obvious. in particular i support two things. first, i support the establishment of the european emergency response centre, which would act as a first port of call through a programme of monitoring potential disaster situations and alerting the relevant authorities about any potential threats. secondly, i welcome the creation of a european emergency response capacity whereby the emergency relief assets of member states are pooled on a voluntary basis, which would enable more effective and certain pre-emergency planning. it would also facilitate a more thorough response in the event of an emergency.
i scríbhinn. − is í an eoraip an ceann scríbe turasóireachta is mó ar domhan a bhfuil tóir uirthi, le 370m duine ag teacht ar cuairt gach bliain. is í an turasóireacht an tríú hearnáil socheacnamaíochta is mó san ae, arb ionann le 10% den oti agus 12% den fhostaíocht í. faoi láthair tá 1.8m gnóthas agus 9.7m post ag brath ar an earnáil tuarasóireachta eorpach. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le comhordú a dhéanamh ar iarrachtaí eorpacha turasóirí a mhealladh agus tosaíochtaí na straitéise 2020 don ae i leith iomaíochta agus fás inmharthana a bhaint amach. is chun leasa earnáil turasóireacht na heorpa agus na héireann a bheadh sé dá ndaingneofaí íomhá idirnáisiúnta an ae mar cinn scríbe tuarasóireachta mealltacha indibhidiúla agus comhordaithe. is buntáiste d’earnáil tuarasóireachta na mballstát a bheadh sé dá gcruthófaí “branda eorpacha” agus tacaím go hairithe lena bhfuil sa tuarascáíl maidir le cineálacha turasóireachta éagsúla a spreagadh, cosúíl leis an turasóireachta faoin dtuath, an agra-turasóireachta, an turasóireacht sa nádúr, turasóireacht i spánna agus don sláinte, agus turasóireacht eiticiúil tugann thart ar 7m cuairteoirí ó thar lear cuairt ar éirinn gach bhliain, agus d’fhéadfadh go gcabhródh creatchlár eorpach go mór le héagsúlú agus forbairt an mhargaidh.
i scríbhinn. − thacaigh mé leis an dtuarascáil seo ar dhá phríomhchúis. is spreagadh í an tuarascáil don turasóireacht faoin dtuath, don agrathurasóireacht agus do thurasóireacht an nádúir. anuas air sin, tá tagairt sa tuarascáil ar cé chomh tábhachtach is atá sé turasóirí ó lasmuigh den ae a mhealladh agus tá moltaí inti maidir leis na nósanna imeachta do víosaí turasóireachta a shimpliú.
in writing. − i welcome mr. fidanza’s report on tourism in europe. as is comprehensively explained in the report, tourism is a hugely important industry to europe, particularly in my home country of ireland. across europe, tourism counts for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, and hence it is imperative that we put in place a comprehensive plan to develop and improve the industry. in particular i welcome the report’s call for the publication of good tourism practices each year. this would provide practical advice to the many small and medium-size tourism enterprises that do not have access to the market research of the bigger-scale tourism companies. moreover, the establishment of a ‘european heritage label’ would, much like unesco and other similar brands, help provide a standardisation to tourist attractions, thus improving the experience of those who visit these sights, destinations and experiences. finally i am particularly enthused by the proposal to create a long-term strategy for more coordinated and simplified visa procedures. this would greatly enhance the experience of visitors, particularly for those outside the schengen zone.
in writing. − i voted against the original text of paragraph 4. i do not believe that an eu road safety coordinator would add value at european level. i believe this would be a further layer of bureaucracy without any real benefits. yes, i know we need exchange of best practice, but if we set up an eu road safety coordinator that means we need a secretariat and this would require extra resources that i believe could be better used elsewhere.
in writing. − we must aim to better protect vulnerable road users, including pedestrians, cyclists, children and the elderly. that 35 000 people lose their lives in road accidents in the eu each year is simply unacceptable. that 1.5 million people are seriously injured is an astonishing figure and we must take action to address this problem. in order to address this situation we must have a clear and comprehensive idea of the scale and nature of the problem. we need to have comparable data on the causes of injuries and accidents throughout the eu. the eu requires a system for compiling harmonised european statistics on the causes of accidents, with a view to improving our understanding of the problem. these statistics can draw on the wealth of knowledge and experience already gained in this area in individual member states. if road safety is to be improved a coherent and integrated approach is needed. in order to do this we must first have a clearer understanding of the nature of these road accidents.
in writing. − i welcome mr deva’s report on the financing of reinforcement dam infrastructure in developing countries. water-related disasters, particularly floods, cost more lives than any other natural phenomenon and arguably cause the most destruction to property. underscoring this point is the un statistic that 2 billion people worldwide live in constant threat of severe flood damage. i speak with some knowledge of this issue, as my own home town of clonmel in ireland has been savaged by floods on a continuing basis for many years, with flood damage costing millions of euro and many people being unable to insure their homes and property because of the risk. in 2009 the civil defence had to be drafted in to help evacuate people from their homes. the problem of flooding is exacerbated in developing countries where access to emergency shelter and services such as the civil defence is limited. creating a comprehensive dam infrastructure would help achieve this aim of moderating the risk of immediate flood damage in the developing world.
i scríbhinn. − de réir eagraíocht bia agus talmhaíochta na na, ní mór go dtiocfaí méadú 70% ar a laghad ar táirgeadh bia chun freastal ar an éileamh domhanda ar bhia, agus é measta go mbeidh breis is 9 billiún duine ar domhan faoi 2050. thairis sin, tá 900m duine ag fulaingt leis an dianocras de bharr forbhochtaineachta, agus 2 billiún eile i mbaol ón ocras mar gheall ar an mbochtaineacht. cé go bhfuil an chosúlacht ar an scéal go bhfuil dóthain bia ar fáil, níl an t-airgead ag móran daoine a mbunábhair bia a cheannach. ní mór go rachfaí i ngleic le ceist na rochtana ar bhia. chuige sin, tacaímid go hiomlán leis na bearta maidir le slándáil an tsoláthair bhia a phléitear sa tuarascáil. tá ról an-tábhachtach ag an earnáil talmhaíochta agus ag an cbt agus muid ag iarraidh slándáil bhia a bhaint amach san ae agus sa domhan mór. ní foláir go mbeadh sé de chumas ag an cbt i ndiaidh 2013 dul i ngleic le dúshláin nua na slándála bia, cosúil le hathrú aeráide, luaineacht sa mhargadh agus cothroime críche. agus comhaontuithe trádála idir an ae agus tríú tíortha faoi chaibidil, ní mór an buncheart maidir le rochtain ar bhia a chosaint.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on assisting developing countries in addressing food security challenges. food security is fundamental and it is politically imperative that a coordinated global approach is adopted to address this challenge. the impact of the cap on developing countries has reduced significantly in recent years, with export subsidies all but eliminated. i support calls on the commission and the council to work towards the implementation of innovative financial instruments, such as the introduction of an international tax on financial transactions, but such an initiative should be implemented on an international level and not on a regional basis only.
in writing. − it can be easy to solely focus on the economic difficulties facing europe and to ignore more pressing issues abroad. food insecurity is one such vitally important issue. the un’s food and agriculture organization has estimated the number of hungry people in 2010 at 925 million. nine hundred and twenty-five million people who are hungry in this day and age! we are also currently witnessing the most severe famine for the last 40 years in the horn of africa. the eu must promote agriculture in the developing world as a way to address this issue. however, issues such as speculation in commodities, water shortages and climate change must also be addressed in order to promote agriculture. the right to adequate food has to become a reality. the eu must do more to promote the eradication of poverty and the realisation of the millennium development goals. to this end we must limit speculation in food and agricultural commodity markets, as this has a devastating impact on food scarcity. i welcome this report and the recommendations therein.
in writing. − i welcome this report on a new trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy and would like to emphasise the importance of advancing the doha development round at the world trade organisation. we also need to take into account the added difficulties faced by smes when tackling foreign regulations and non-tariff barriers, notably the legal and administrative burdens associated with trade defence instrument procedures. i call on the commission to hasten the simplification and adaptation of tdi procedures to the needs and accounting systems of smes and the establishment of adequate support measures for smes affected by proceedings initiated by third countries. we must not forget the potential of combined transatlantic strategies to shape labour, health, safety and environmental standards and international regulatory regimes in areas such as consumer rights and intellectual property rights.
a uachtaráin, gabhaim buíochas leis an uachtarán juncker as ucht teacht anseo anocht agus ár gceisteanna a fheagairt go hoscailte, go macánta agus go cróga. thank you for your kind words about my country and it is good that an irish mep has a chance to put a question. i am a person who believes in paying his debts, my country believes in paying its debts and my government believes in paying its debts and, for that reason, it has put measures in place and will continue to do so over the next two budgets to ensure we pay our debts. my question is, though, if another country in a similar bail-out situation defaults on its debts, will the consequences for that country be so beneficial that our government will come under pressure from the people to do likewise in our own interests? or will the consequences of default be such that we will say that that is somewhere we do not want to go? so, how are you going to ensure that the latter rather than the former would prevail?
madam president, this parliament must give hope to palestinians that their long night of humiliation and oppression can come to an end – and soon – while reassuring israelis that their security and right to peace is guaranteed. our vote tomorrow is critical. a vote for a palestinian seat in the united nations is a vote for abbas’s non-violent diplomatic political strategy. it is a vote for a negotiated settlement, to which president abbas has repeatedly said he is committed. as former prime minister olmert said in the new york times last week, the time for true leadership has come. israel will not always find itself sitting across the table from palestinian leaders, like mr abbas and prime minister salam fayyad, who object to terrorism and want peace. indeed future palestinian leaders might abandon the idea of two states and take a one-state solution, making reconciliation impossible. prime minister netanyahu, on the other hand, calls for negotiations without preconditions while, at the same time, establishing concrete preconditions on the ground again today by ordering new building in east jerusalem. this is clearly intended to prevent negotiations getting underway. regretting these actions will not stop them, baroness ashton. we have to make it clear that these actions carry a cost. i welcome the efforts you have made over the last while; i welcome, too, the quartet’s statement of last week, limited though it is. however, its success depends on our building on the positive international engagement that the abbas initiative has brought about. to conclude, could i ask you, baroness ashton, to come back to the house at some point in the near future with the proposals referred to in the quartet statement that it is looking for ways to increase the independence of the palestinian authority and its sovereignty.
mr president, yesterday many of us saw the youtube video of a trader describing how to make money out of default, out of collapse, out of people’s misery as they see their savings, their pensions, their hopes and their dreams fade in front of their eyes. that trader happily told us that goldman sachs rules the world. not governments, he says. it is goldman sachs; it is the market. well one of the reasons i voted for today’s report is to say, no, it is not the markets that determine our future. it is a civilised, rules-based approach to economic governance. i refuse, i refuse on my own behalf and on behalf of irish and european citizens, to cede power to the markets and to bow to the madness that is fuelled by profit. i do not have all the answers and yes, we are part of an unstable and badly constructed currency, but i will do all i can to ensure that past mistakes do not influence future outcomes. the report gives us a roadmap to prevent the next crisis. it does not solve the current problems and yes, phrases like ‘horses bolted’ and ‘stable door’ come to mind. but if you believe the euro, which is on life support, has a chance of surviving, then this report represents another cylinder of oxygen. it is not the cure but it provides us with hope.
a uachtaráin, níl mé ach chun óráid amháin a thabhairt ar na hábhair seo agus bhí áthas orm cuidiú leis an ‘six-pack’. i think one of the down sides in democracy is that governments and opposition parties tend to by-elections if they can get away with it. of course people respond in kind, the attitude being ‘never pay today what you can put off until tomorrow’. that excessive approach has led us in part, at least, to problems we find ourselves in at the minute. thankfully, we are beginning to address it and get on top of the situation and, as my colleague marian harkin said, politicians are supposed to be in control, not the markets or agencies. this certainly goes a step, or hopefully six steps, in the right direction so that we can have more responsibility in the future.
mr president, i supported the report by sylvie goulard. as with other reports encompassing the six pack this morning, it does not purport to solve our current problems. part of that roadmap was articulated by president barroso this morning. i think, for the first time, we had some hope injected into the debate and some reality, but of course now what we need is action and we are still waiting for it. as far as this report is concerned, i was happy to see that article 9 of tfeu is included, under which the union will take into account requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion. these are fine words of course, but we have a responsibility in this parliament to do all we can to translate them into reality. i was also very pleased to see flexibility in this report, where it states that a possibility will be provided by the council to reduce or cancel the sanctions imposed on a member state on the basis of a commission proposal following a reasoned request by the member state concerned. that kind of flexibility will be very important for member states and, in this context, i would like to specifically mention my own country, ireland.
mr president, the six-pack plan that has just been passed by parliament represents the institutionalisation of an austerity shock doctrine at the heart of the european union. with the surveillance programme, the commission has now effectively been appointed as a policeman for austerity right across europe. fines of hundreds of millions of euros face countries that break with neo-liberal orthodoxy or are deemed to have acted imprudently. in reality they will be placed into a category of miscreant states. this is all about making working class people pay, through austerity policies, for an economic crisis that they are not responsible for. we do not need to look very far to see what the result of those austerity policies will be. the policies have already failed. look at greece – the collapse of its economy, shrunk 7% year on year in the second quarter of 2011 – look at ireland, look at spain, look at portugal: austerity policies have already failed and they will fail again.
mr president, i supported the report by carl haglund which tells us that experience gained and mistakes made over the last decade show the need for improved economic governance. that governance needs to be based on commonly agreed rules and policies and, indeed, stronger surveillance. but of course that is not all it needs: whether it be eurobonds or stability bonds or a transfer union or the ecb becoming the lender of last resort, other mechanisms are certainly needed to support the euro. we cannot say that what we have here today will solve our problems but it is part of an overall solution. today i have mixed feelings. as we vote on these reports, on one level i feel irrelevant, in the sense that we are not actually working to find solutions to the current crisis and that is what concerns citizens. however, citizens also expect systems to work and we are trying to fix a broken system. it is not headline-grabbing stuff but it matters.
mr president, i supported this report as part of the economic governance package and i was particularly pleased to see in article 1 that the coordination of economic policies in the union will, among other things, aim at achieving sustainable growth and social cohesion. this is crucially important for all of us because our policies should in the final analysis achieve growth and social cohesion, otherwise we are wasting our time. i support the proposals on the european monetary fund. they certainly go further than what is being accepted by the council and i think finally begin to address the elephant in the room. it is crucial that we do this, otherwise we are just seen as irrelevant and we are just not dealing with the reality of the situation. it is also important that in all of these proposals deliberations will take place in public and that citizens will have an opportunity to scrutinise what is happening and be aware of decisions taken in their name. finally, i agree with my colleague mr uggias, when he talks about fairness. this is not just about deficits, it is also about surpluses. if we are to be part of a common currency, then we have common responsibilities.
mr president, one of the purposes of this parliament from the point of view of the establishment in europe is to act as a democratic facade on what is in reality a european union dominated by big business interests and dominated institutionally by the commission and the council. but i think that facade may be beginning to crumble today when you look at what the parliament has passed. it has passed a series of measures, the six pack, that is purely neo-liberal and austerity-driven in content. it has opted to give more power to the commission to act as an austerity policeman and it has used the notion of reverse qualified majority voting to mean that a simple majority in the council will not be enough to vote against sanctions applied by the commission to a miscreant member state. the limited democracy that exists within the european union is now being trampled upon in the race to impose austerity. what is the european union establishment afraid of? they are afraid of the working class, they are afraid of the movements of ordinary people, they are afraid of the general strike in greece, the protests in portugal on saturday, the moves within spain – and i think they are correct to be afraid. i think the movements have to link up and build a european-wide movement against austerity.
mr president, i supported this report and i particularly agreed with point 4a, where it states that this regulation does not address the current situation in the short term, but rather is a more structural approach for the medium to long term. i also support the statement that we need a more integrated and social approach. several times here today i have said that we are not putting forward solutions to the current crisis, but indeed one possibility that is contained in this report that could improve the situation is the achieving and maintaining of a dynamic internal market. i know this could generate significant growth across the eu and particularly in my own country, ireland, where this has a significant impact. speaking of ireland, i was pleased to see the statement that the medium-term growth and primary balanced targets of the catching-up countries will be taken into consideration. it also states that measures proposed to a given member state for correcting imbalances should take into account the union strategy for growth and jobs. this is certainly an instrument for achieving internal cohesion and also supporting recommendations to respect the charter of fundamental rights and collective bargaining between social partners in member states. i think all of these issues are important.
mr president, i supported this report and i certainly re-echo its sentiments when it says that a comprehensive and integrated solution to the euro area debt crisis is needed, because the piecemeal efforts that we have put in place so far have certainly not worked. i think what we did today was to put in place one piece of the jigsaw. president barroso proposed other pieces, among them the financial transaction tax and the beefing-up of the europe investment bank so that it can offer greater assistance to smes. he also proposed, as did commissioner rehn, solidarity bonds or eurobonds. we need further clarification on this; such bonds may or may not require treaty change, and i believe the details need to be spelled out. as far as the flexibility within this report is concerned, we can see that the adoption of the multiannual fiscal planning does not deprive any newly elected governments within the time frame covered by the planning of the chance to modify previous policy options so that they can reflect their own priorities. my final comment is that these reports are addressing a situation where 17 states are members of the eurozone. if one member state threatens the stability of the currency and other member states, we cannot ignore that; we have to try and deal with it in a fair and equitable way.
in writing. − i support this application from denmark to access globalisation funds of eur 3.9 million from the redundant workers in midtjylland machinery. this submission was based on article 2b and once again shows the need to ensure the continuation of the derogation on the crisis. it is crucial that the council can reach agreement on this and allow redundant workers to access personalised packages that will give them an opportunity to find their way back to employment.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála maidir leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do mhuintir na danmhairge. le domhandú margaí tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh an ciste ar fáil do mhuintir na háite seo. in éirinn, táim sásta leis an eur 35 milliún atá ar fail anois ón gcoimisiún dóibh siúd a bhí fostaithe sa tionscal togála. caithfimid athoiliúint a chur ar fáil do na daoine seo. san fhadtéarma ó thaobh cúrsaí airgid de, tá sé níos saoire don tsochaí an t-airgead seo a chur ar fáil anois, chun comhlachtaí nua a mhealladh níos sciobtha agus fostaíocht a chur ar fáil. táim sásta go bhfuil na feisirí sa teach seo ag léiriú a gcuid tuisceana leis an vóta seo ar son an togra le haghaidh cinnidh ó pharlaimint na heorpa agus ón gcomhairle maidir leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú a úsáid.
in writing. − i support the application from the german government to access funds for redundant workers in the automotive industry. this is a very significant sum of money – eur 4.3 million – and it will help to support the 778 redundant workers. many of the personalised services, such as training courses leading to qualifications, in-depth guidance for business start-ups and short-term job seekers allowances will assist redundant workers in their re-integration into employment. given that 10% of redundant workers across the eu received assistance from the egaf in 2010, it indicates the need for the continuation of this fund and, indeed, its expansion.
in writing. − i support the mobilisation of the egaf for the 680 redundant workers in portugal. this application was based on article 2a of the egaf regulation which establishes the link between redundancies and globalisation. the package of measures proposed include personalised services and i am particularly pleased to see that the recognition, validation and certification of competences including knowledge and skills acquired in formal and informal situations is reflected in the package. this is an important tool as is the training available for entrepreneurs. in particular the technical support offered is important. finally, the financial support for the creation of a business up to eur 20 000 euro per job created is an important incentive.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála maidir leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do mhuintir na portaingéile, go háirithe chun cúnamh a thabhairt dóibh siúd atá dífhostaithe anois de bharr dúnadh na monarchan bróg "rohde". le domhandú margaí tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh an ciste ar fáil do mhuintir na háite seo. táimid ag caint faoi 974 duine a bhfuil gcuid jabanna caillte acu. caithfimid athoiliúint a chur ar fáil do na daoine seo. san fhadtéarma ó thaobh cúrsaí airgid de, tá se níos saoire don tsochaí an t-airgead seo a chur ar fáil anois, chun comhlachtaí nua a mhealladh níos sciobtha agus fostaíocht a chur ar fáil. táim sásta go bhfuil na feisirí sa teach seo ag léiriú a gcuid tuisceana leis an vóta seo ar son an togra le haghaidh cinnidh ó pharlaimint na heorpa agus ón gcomhairle maidir leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú a úsáid.
in writing. − i opposed four of the so-called ‘six-pack’ because they are economically misguided, and will reinforce the eu austerity programme driving us into recession. austerity measures which fail to protect investment will kill growth, destroy jobs and derail economic recovery. without growth a return to sound public finances will be simply impossible. i welcome today’s adoption of the regulation establishing a system for detecting and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. it contains important measures protecting social rights, ensuring that a wide range of potential economic imbalances will be monitored. there is a clear alternative to brute austerity. we need a broader and more ambitious agenda for the euro zone. we need an alternative economic governance scheme that includes: 1. a european growth and jobs pact to promote investment, recovery, growth and jobs as well as restoring public finances. 2. stronger and more democratic decision-making arrangements, so that europe can respond promptly and effectively. 3. a strong system of eurobonds to stabilise markets and lower interest rates. 4. a tax on financial transactions, to raise new revenue and limit harmful forms of speculation 5. a larger european budget to support european-wide policies and financed through own resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which is one part of the economic governance package. experience has shown that more robust and timely actions are required to tackle budgetary imbalances in member states. by updating the rules of the stability and growth pact’s preventative arm, this proposal on strengthening the surveillance of national budgets achieves this. member states will be required to undertake corrective actions at the earliest opportunity and can no longer ignore commission recommendations regarding imbalances. i believe the time allowed to undertake these corrective actions is both realistic and achievable.
in writing. − i support this report which proposes that all member states will be subject to macroeconomic surveillance. early detection of a macroeconomic imbalance is crucial to ensure the proper functioning of the economic and monetary union. provisions are laid down for a commission scoreboard to examine the economic, financial and structural factors in individual member states, indicating any imbalance. while this proposal forms just one part of the overall governance package, its role as an effective alert system will be key.
in writing. − i supported the ferreira report on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. the report suggests that the current economic and financial crisis can be explained partly by economic imbalances between member states and within the private sector. to prevent and correct those imbalances at an earlier stage, this report proposes a new early warning mechanism as part of the package on economic governance. requiring member states to address their macroeconomic imbalances is not about imposing measures that hurt countries or their citizens or punishing those already under a lot of pressure. the report concludes it is more harmful if excessive macroeconomic imbalances are not dealt with, as they can have a drastic effect on the economy as a whole.
in writing. − i opposed four of the so-called ‘six-pack’ because they are economically misguided, and will reinforce the eu austerity programme driving us into recession. austerity measures which fail to protect investment, will kill growth, destroy jobs and derail economic recovery. without growth a return to sound public finances will be simply impossible. i welcome today’s adoption of the regulation establishing a system for detecting and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. it contains important measures protecting social rights, ensuring that a wide range of potential economic imbalances will be monitored. there is a clear alternative to brute austerity. we need a broader and more ambitious agenda for the euro zone. we need an alternative economic governance scheme that includes: 1. a european growth and jobs pact to promote investment, recovery, growth and jobs as well as restoring public finances. 2. stronger and more democratic decision-making arrangements, so that europe can respond promptly and effectively. 3. a strong system of eurobonds to stabilise markets and lower interest rates. 4. a tax on financial transactions, to raise new revenue and limit harmful forms of speculation 5. a larger european budget to support european-wide policies and financed through own resources.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which echoes the recent adoption by the un human rights council of a resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity. respect for, and the promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights is fundamental to the european union’s ethical and legal acquis. the european union attaches paramount importance to universal and indivisible human rights which apply equally to all regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity. there is continuing concern regarding the numerous human rights violations and widespread discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, both in the european union and in third countries. the european union and its member states should guarantee respect for human rights in their own policies and practice. moreover, the commission should produce a comprehensive road map against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. indeed the high representative, the commission and member states should further promote, in partnership with third countries, human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity through bilateral human rights dialogues, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) and other external financial instruments.
mr president, at present 43 million people in the eu are at risk of food poverty, meaning that they cannot afford a meal with meat, chicken or fish every second day. the blocking minority in council towards this programme is unacceptable. opposition to this scheme on the basis of competence, bureaucracy or budget are semantics that mean nothing to those who are hungry and rely on this programme. one of the five objectives of the eu 2020 strategy is the reduction of poverty and social exclusion in the european union. this programme represents a real method of physically addressing poverty that delivers immediate results. while it does not address the root causes of poverty it improves the immediate situation for those who cannot afford to feed themselves or their families. sometimes we need to take the small goals and not always be looking at the ideological bigger picture. many eu programmes addressing poverty and social inclusion are very well intentioned and well written but they often stay on paper without ever benefiting the eu citizens they are targeting. this programme directly assists organisations and currently provides food for 13 million people suffering from poverty in 19 member states and has distribution chains involving some 240 food banks and charities. that is real and measurable assistance on the ground, directly benefiting those who need it most and not just an aspirational goal. a little bit of common sense if not some compassion is required from eu leaders on this issue and i welcome the comments by the president of the commission on this earlier today and also the contributions from the commissioner and the minister earlier in this debate. now is not the time to be playing politics with such an important programme.
mr president, i think the message from this house is very clear. we want this programme to continue because of its humanitarian aspect. i was listening to the lengthy debate and i was just wondering whether those who benefit from meals at the food bank are troubled by the legal base under which the food they are eating comes? do they worry about the sort of detail that we worry about in this parliament? there are plenty of brains in this room to come up with a solution. i do not want to condemn the member states who are blocking this; i do not think that is a good way forward. i want to try and persuade them of the value of this programme for the solidarity of the european union. i want to see a short-term solution for the next two years but i would also like, as jim nicholson has said, to review what we might do post-2014. sometimes you need to do things differently, but we have an immediate problem. for example, there is in ireland eur 1 million which will be lost for food aid, so a short-term solution is needed. i plead with those who are blocking to stop.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i fully support the derogation to 2013 whereby the numbers would decrease from 1 000 to 500. it is very clear, if you look at the applications coming in from member states, that more and more member states are using this basis, article 2b. if we look even at the applications in 2009 and 2010, we can see that this is the situation and i, like madam berès, will call on the council to support this. i believe parliament will fully support this today and the council should be here today to listen to the strong views of the parliament on this. in 2010, 10% of all redundant workers accessed funding under the egf. as far as i am concerned, that is a direct connection between redundant workers and the eu institutions, and workers understand that the eu institutions are responding and putting in place a personalised package of services for them. if you read the commission reports you will see that workers benefit from accessing the funds in many different ways. central to that, of course, are measures that improve their employability opportunities but there are other benefits, too, and i agree with you, commissioner, it is an expression of solidarity, but the good thing is that that solidarity is very closely linked to the eu 2020 objectives. so we have a win-win situation where we have a connection to citizens that helps to ensure the eu 2020 objectives are achieved. i believe that we do need to continue with this derogation, where 500 workers can access the fund because, if we do not, then we are saying to citizens: we are not responding to your in times of austerity. i believe the council needs to listen to what parliament is saying on this matter.
mr president, the globalisation adjustment fund is one of the social policy success stories for europe which leverages individualised retraining for unemployed men and women of all ages and all skill sets. at this time of crisis when the commission and the council are taking what i consider to be lopsided steps to address the debt crisis, giving rise to growing eu criticism, this successful fund needs to be continued. the first fund allocation for ireland, for instance, for the dell workers in limerick, has not only retrained the workers but has also succeeded in creating 240 new jobs. however, some of the money has remained unspent because of the inflexibility in the expenditure deadlines and because the clock starts ticking from the date of application, rather than the date of approval. i believe this should change. to conclude, i would make the point that this is not intended to be a total response to the crisis, nor is it intended to be a total response to unemployment. of course we need to address youth unemployment specifically, but one does not cancel out the other.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom. ar ndóigh is ciste fíorthábhachtach é an ciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú do na ballstáit san aontas eorpach. i strongly believe, mr president, that every effort must be undertaken by national authorities to replace a company after a decision is taken to relocate outside the union. this fund – the european globalisation adjustment fund – must be the last option available to governments after all efforts are exhausted to replace relocated companies. i would like to commend the industrial development authority in ireland and also údarás na gaeltachta who over successive decades have successfully attracted inward investment into ireland, including our constituency in the north west. in june 2010, the government submitted an application under the european globalisation adjustment fund for up to eur 40 million for the retraining of construction industry workers, and i want to commend the officials for their efforts. this was done after meetings involving both myself and my colleagues, marian harkin and jim higgins, and i would like to ask the commissioner for the current position in relation to this application.
mr president, i would just like to say, in relation to catch-the-eye, that i was first in here this morning and was first to apply for the catch-the-eye. i was not called. i was here yesterday afternoon for the discussion on the rio+20 earth summit; i was here for the entire discussion and was one of the first to put up my hand. i was not called. i was here yesterday morning for the entire three hours with mr barroso. i was first in and was first to put up my hand. forty-six of the 56 who put up their hand were called. i was not called. i saw people coming in, during catch-the-eye, putting up their hands, being called and leaving again. is there a policy of discouraging people to turn up, and discriminating against them because they appear too often in the chamber?
in writing. – ba bhuille uafásach do na céadta oibrí agus teaghlach é dúnadh waterford crystal i gcontae phort láirge na héireann. meastar go bhfuil laghdú eur 40 milliún sa bhliain tagtha ar chaiteachas pearsanta i gcathair phort láirge agus sa cheantar máguaird dá bharr. cuireadh fáilte roimh chinneadh an ae roinnt blianta ó shin airgead ón gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú a leithdháileadh ar an réigiún i ndiaidh drochbhuille dúnadh waterford crystal. tá ceisteanna agus gearáin ó iar-oibrithe ag teacht chugam fós maidir leis na deacrachtaí atá acu teacht ar eolas bunúsach faoin gciste, ar eolas maidir le rochtain ar oiliúint agus oideachas, agus maidir le maoiniú a fháil ón gciste chun íoc as na cúrsaí oiliúna sin. cé go dtiteann riaradh an chiste faoi údarás na mballstát, measaim go mba chóir athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar bhainistíocht an chiste ar an leibhéal náisiúnta. an bhfuil athbhreithniú déanta ag an gcoimisiún ar éifeachtacht an chiste ó thaobh na n-oibrithe de? molaim aidhmeanna agus spriocanna an chiste, ach chun na dea-spriocanna sin a bhaint amach, ní mór go gcuirfí i bhfeidhm go héifeachtach trédhearcach an ciste agus go mbeadh caidreamh díreach ann le na hiar-oibrithe. murach sin, ní bheadh ann ach cúis anacra eile dóibh.
a uachtaráin, tá an tuarascáil seo an-tábhachtach mar baineann sé leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú, agus tá sé tábhachtach ar dhá leibhéal. ar an gcéad leibhéal, tugann sé cabhair phraiticiúil do dhaoine atá dífhostaithe chun jab a fháil chomh luath agus is féidir. ar an dara leibhéal, tugann sé ardú meanman do dhaoine atá in ísle brí de bharr go bhfuil siad dífhostaithe. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach ar fad; chonaic mé é sin in dell, chonaic mé é sin in waterford crystal, agus le déanaí in talktalk – go bhfuil duine éigin ann atá sásta éisteacht leis na hoibrithe agus cabhrú leo. gan dabht ar bith, tá lochtanna ag baint leis an gciste; tá leasuithe anseo agus beidh leasuithe ag teastáil arís tar éis 2013, mar go mbeidh gá leis an gciste seo go ceann fada, faraor.
mr president, i was very pleased to have an opportunity to support this report. there are a significant number of very important issues here, but i shall just deal briefly with three. first of all, we must ensure the sustainable management of water and it must always remain a public good. i fully support the call to ensure that the right to water and sanitation is globally achieved. i am also fully supportive of the call to ensure secure access to seeds for all segments of the population and i think regardless of your views on gmos – and mine are pretty clear, i voted on paragraph 48 – i believe everybody should support secure access to seeds. finally, i would like to mention paragraphs 59 and 60 where we overwhelmingly, about 98%, expressed our concern regarding the forest code that will exacerbate deforestation in the amazonian forest. as we do this, our commissioner, mr de gucht, is still pushing ahead for a mercosur deal including the implications of the significant amounts of beef imported into the eu and the deforestation of the amazon will simply exacerbate that problem. so one arm of the european institutions is expressing one view and the other arm is completely ignoring it.
mr president, i attended this debate in its entirety yesterday afternoon but unfortunately i did not get chance to say a few words. it is a major issue, rio+20, and the issues facing the world globally are probably more severe than ever: deforestation, desertification, overfishing, clean water supply and climate change. but they need to be tackled globally and it is no use that the european union is playing its part, and probably disadvantaging itself, turning more people into poverty, while the rest of the world goes about its merry way. global problems need global solutions and i hope they will come from the next summit. as the commissioner said yesterday, the policy of ‘growth first, clean-up later’ is no longer acceptable, not in the european union and not globally.
mr president, i just want to say that i fully support this resolution and, in particular, the call by parliament to continue the egf beyond the current mff. i think this is a clear signal from parliament of both the need for the fund and the value of the fund, and i certainly hope that the council is listening carefully to what we are saying. yes, the resolution also says that we need to make changes and we can improve the functioning of the fund. we certainly can improve its timeliness and look at its cofinancing rates. we also need to ensure that the fund responds properly to the needs of workers, but also deals with issues like skill mismatches. in the debate this morning there were some issues about absolving businesses of their responsibilities. there is no real evidence of this. the commission goes through all the applications very carefully, as we do in the working group as well. certainly we can tighten up, but i think that is sometimes used by members as an excuse not to support the fund. finally, we await the commission mid-term evaluation of the fund in november and the commission proposals in october but, from what i know of what is contained in the commission proposals, i have to say i welcome them, in particular their proposal to include farmers and the self-employed within the fund.
in writing. − i strongly support the amending of the egf to ensure the continuation of the derogation, which allows the current economic crisis to be used as a criterion for access to egf funds. the european parliament has strongly supported this call and it is essential that the council takes our views and those of the commission on board.
in writing. − today’s vote is a strong endorsement of the palestinian democratic strategy to seek un recognition for their state. this clear support of peaceful political means in seeking palestinian independence strengthens president abbas and at the same time weakens extremism in the region. europe and our member states must be consistent in how we respond to the legitimate democratic aspirations unleashed by the arab spring. today’s vote reinforces the established eu policy of support for a two-state solution based on the pre-1967 frontier with the state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security, with jerusalem as capital of both states. recognition of the palestinian state does not in any way contradict the need for final status negotiations. unfortunately, prime minister netanyahu while beseeching the palestinians to resume peace talks has effectively blocked a return to negotiations by approving the construction of over 1100 new housing units in israeli-occupied palestinian east jerusalem, which he knows president abbas cannot accept.
in writing. − i fully support the resolution on the situation in palestine, in particular paragraph 2 which calls on all member states to be united in addressing the legitimate demand of the palestinians to be represented as a state at the un following the conclusion of negotiations at the un general assembly. the resolution is balanced because paragraph 3 calls on the international community to reconfirm its strong commitment to the security of the state of israel. this resolution, which is balanced, stresses that peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a sustainable solution to the conflict and, in this context, i believe it is important that israel stops any further construction or extension of settlements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in palestine. ireland has always been committed to upholding the un charter and has long been an advocate of palestine’s attempts to become a sovereign, independent nation within borders based on those of 1967. the eu has repeatedly confirmed its support for the two-state solution with the state of israel and an independent state of palestine. the recognition of statehood for palestine would give its people dignity and support in their ongoing struggle to achieve their right to self-determination. it is imperative that a resolution is reached, particularly in the context of the arab spring.
in writing. − i welcome the report on developing a common eu position ahead of the un conference on sustainable development (rio+20). 1.4 billion people across the world are still living in extreme poverty and one sixth of the world's population is undernourished. i welcome the recognition in this report that sustainable development must be at the forefront in all eu processes and policies. i voted in favour of this report but there were some amendments which, in my opinion, are outside of its remit and i did not support those.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support the commission’s proposals to extend the derogation which allows us to mobilise egf funds to assist workers made redundant due to the global economic crisis until 2013. the european globalisation fund has been essential to assist european workers who found themselves on the losing side of globalisation, especially since the behaviour of market speculators triggered the severe financial and economic crisis we find ourselves in. there is a need to address serious issues, such as the slow and cumbersome nature of the egf procedures and the problems we face to secure national funding to match the eu’s share. the deadline for availing of egf funds must not count from the start of such complex and lengthy procedures, as this results in lost funding opportunities for workers in need of assistance. in the dell workers’ case in ireland, the egf fund helped contribute to start new enterprises which created 240 jobs and retrained or up-skilled many hundreds more. we need to reflect on ways to preserve the knowledge accumulated by the workers assisted by egf funds so as to support and hasten future applications. the workers made redundant by talk talk in waterford can benefit from that know-how.
mr president, i want to thank the vice-president/high representative for her words here this evening. i will concentrate on bahrain because i travelled to bahrain a few weeks ago with a number of irish medics and with the human rights organisation front line. the specific connection was that a number of the medics who had been imprisoned had trained in ireland and worked in dublin. the royal college of surgeons in dublin also have a huge facility in bahrain and indeed they trained many of the doctors who were imprisoned. in this context i believe the college of surgeons cannot continue to sit on the fence because they must do something about the totally unacceptable breaches of medical neutrality. they have a duty of care to their former students and also to the medical profession as a whole. i would also like to echo your words, vice-president/high representative, when you say that the civilian courts should now move to drop all charges. the bahraini authorities cannot seek to legitimise the entire process simply by changing from military to civilian courts. yes, it may look positive, and it is, but only on the surface. the arrests of the medics and the subsequent and well supported allegations of torture, with no access to family members or to legal advisers, cannot be legitimised, and all charges must be dropped. we also have the situation where there are at least 80 people who remain in prison. furthermore i would like to draw your attention to an extremely serious situation where a number of prisoners, including a man called abdulhadi al-khawaja, are on hunger strike. again i mention abdulhadi because he worked with front line human rights organisation in dublin and was arrested when he returned to bahrain. he is on hunger strike protesting at the severe mistreatment of a number of women who protested in the city centre mall. vice-president/high representative ashton, i agree with you: real dialogue and real reforms are the only ways to achieve a long-term sustainable solution in bahrain.
in writing. – i must voice my concern at the recent arrest and unfair trial before a military court of 47 doctors and nurses in bahrain. their crimes were no more than to treat injured demonstrators who were brought to the hospital, and to protest to the minister of health at the refusal to send ambulances to collect the injured. there are also serious and credible allegations of torture. among the doctors and nurses currently on trial are three doctors who studied at the royal college of surgeons in ireland, dr ali al ekri, dr basim daif and dr ghassan daif. all three were arbitrarily detained, held incommunicado in detention, reportedly tortured, denied access to their families for two months and forced to ‘confess’ under duress. these ‘confessions’ were videotaped while they were blindfolded and are being used in evidence against them. the eu must do everything in its power to ensure that the bahraini authorities: release all human rights defenders currently in detention; drop the charges against all 47 doctors, nurses and technicians; overturn the conviction of human rights defenders; end the unfair trials; and bring those responsible for torture to justice.
madam president, i welcome mr skinner’s proposals. certainly the whole issue of insurance has come very much to mind in recent times. i have seen in my own country a rather strange situation occurring whereby wages are going down and yet the cost of insurance is going through the roof. this is true for general insurance and particularly for health insurance. as a result, many consumers cannot afford to be insured, which is not a very satisfactory position. i have also seen, in areas where flooding occurred, that the cost of insurance went up six-fold and even then, when you read the small print, very many situations have not been covered. so, certainly, an impact study would be very desirable in order to establish a level playing field right across europe, to ensure that consumers are insured and that they are insured for what they think they are being insured for and for what they are paying for.
madam president, the principle of subsidiarity is probably one of the most oft-quoted principles in relation to the european union, and it is both at once a strength and a weakness. it is a strength in the sense that member states can legislate in certain areas themselves, and they cannot be blaming the european union for everything and say the european union should do this, that or the other thing. it is a weakness and particularly it is a weakness which we see in the response to the economic crisis. there are certain things that probably most people would agree need to be done at a much quicker pace, but because of subsidiarity that cannot happen. nevertheless, if it comes to treaty change it is going to be vital that we spell it out very clearly and work very closely with national parliaments to get the issues which we want resolved. having said that, it is encouraging to hear what the commissioner said regarding the responses from national parliaments in relation to the lisbon treaty and subsidiarity, and that is certainly my experience in my own country as well.
madam president, just following on from my colleague mrs băsescu’s comment that we need measures to stimulate the economy, i am pleased to say that in my country the new government brought in proposals this year to reduce vat, particularly in relation to restaurants and other areas of that nature. it has had a huge positive effect. in fairness to most of the businesses, they passed the vat reduction on to the customer and as a result they have increased their customers and the number of people visiting. so certainly there are areas where we can stimulate the economy by varying the vat rate. the idea of having the same rate right across europe, while it is desirable in the long term, is not practical in the short term.
madam president, obviously protectionism is not acceptable and particularly if it impacts on eu companies and suppliers then we have to fight it. for that reason it is only right we should be discussing the american jobs act today. as a member of the eu-us delegation, i am looking forward to discussing this in more detail with our colleagues in upcoming meetings. i agree completely with my colleague, mr caspary, who said that the commission has to be far stronger, far more proactive, and indeed i would say far more aggressive in dealing with the situation. i read recently that the majority of americans now think that their future lies with closer links in trade and in other relationships with asia than with europe and that might just tell us what they think of europe and where we are going. certainly the commission will have to take up on the message that mr caspary is giving here today, otherwise we might find ourselves more and more marginalised in the world.
madam president, president obama’s proposal for an american jobs act contains many elements and policy initiatives which sorely lack a european equivalent. however, conservative forces in the us senate blocked their approval for two days in a stance paralleled in europe by the austerity six-pack; our only approach to the severe economic crisis we find ourselves in. the ‘buy american’ provisions enshrined in the american jobs act which emulates obama’s approach in the 2009 american recovery and reinvestment act is understandable in the face of us unemployment figures, but protectionism is not the way out of the economic woes afflicting both sides of the atlantic. through work in the committee on the internal market and the ep delegation to the us, i have emphasised the untapped benefits of further transatlantic market integration. there is much work to be done to improve network interoperability and to facilitate smes’ access to the transatlantic markets. upstream regulatory support and cooperation between the us and the eu is still insipid and could prevent unintended trade barriers. we are far more likely to spur growth and job creation if we work together rather than retrenching a sad repetition of post-great depression protectionism.
madam president, there are many positive aspects to this report but i am afraid i was unable to support it for a number of reasons. chief among them was paragraph 10, which calls for a standard harmonised or reduced vat rate on all intra-eu cross-border travel, regardless of the mode of transport, and for harmonised rules on vat deductibility. derogations are an important element of the vat directive as they give member states the necessary flexibility to address specific issues, and the continuing exemption on transport is vital for an island nation like ireland. the cost of access for goods, and indeed for people, matter hugely to our economy and to ordinary individuals, so i think member states need to have flexibility in shaping tax policies in order to meet their individual needs, and access to and from an island nation is certainly central to this. in regard to the continuing availability of zero and reduced vat rates, that is an important issue for ireland. but finally, i want to say that i fully support the reduction of red tape and fraud that this very good report otherwise deals with.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom a rá go ndearna mé botún ag an vótáil don tuarascáil seo, theastaigh uaim staonadh ach vótálas ina choinne mar bhí duine éigin ag caint i mo chluas ag an am. dá bhrí sin, más féidir é sin a cheartú bheinn buíoch díot. bíodh sin mar atá, an chúis nach raibh mise, bn harkin agus comhghleacaithe eile ábalta tacaíocht iomlán a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo ná go bhfuiltear ag trácht ann ar tax harmonisation, agus is ábhar conspóideach inár dtír é. cé gur maith an sprioc é, b'fhéidir, sa todhchaí, tá sé róluath dúinne agus mar sin staonamar ar an vóta deiridh in ionad vótáil ina fhabhar mar a theastaigh ón ngrúpa go ndéanaimis cé gur tuarascáil an-mhaith é i gcoitinne.
madam president, let us be clear that the essence of any new plan by this commission and council will be the same as the last, which is bail-outs for the banks and savage austerity for working class people. what this means is seen in ireland today, where you have the pathetic sight of an elected government jumping through hoops for the ringmaster imf’s a.j. chopra and an array of unelected imf and eu bureaucrats. we also have the sight of taoiseach enda kenny scurrying to brussels to receive his orders from unelected commission president barroso. the orders are clear: increase the austerity and sell off more state assets. the indications now are that we will be faced with eur 4 billion worth of cutbacks and a tax next year. the results of that austerity are just as clear. you can see it in greece, where austerity has destroyed the economy, which is in freefall. in ireland, despite the hype about improved economic performance, the reality is that domestic consumption and domestic investment continue to plummet, precisely as a result of that austerity. the spread of the occupying movement into europe is a sign that young people – working-class people – are not prepared to accept it. we need to build those movements into a mass movement that can defeat austerity across europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. in the context of the financial crisis, consumer confidence, and protection, can be easily undermined within the financial system. it is vital that a consistent level of consumer protection is ensured regardless of the location of the insurer writing the policy. i welcome the calls for a coherent cross-border framework for insurance guarantee schemes across all member states.
in writing. − regrettably we were unable to support this report for a number of reasons. while the report contains several positive aspects in relation to red tape and tax fraud, we were unable to support the report as we fundamentally believe that member states must retain flexibility in relation to taxation matters. the continuing availability of zero and reduced rates remains an important and sensitive issue for many member states including ireland. derogations and exemptions are essential, particularly in the transport area. in terms of the legal process, unanimity must be the basis for decision making on all fiscal matters including vat. this is consistent with the lisbon treaty and the protocols agreed to following the second referendum in ireland.
in writing. − my fine gael colleagues and i abstained on the casa report on the future of vat. we recognise the need to examine the possibilities for achieving a simpler and more efficient vat system and support in particular the proposals to reduce red tape and combat fraud. however; we would be concerned about some of the proposals contained in this report, in particular on transport. as an island nation it is crucial that the cost of access to ireland remains accessible; therefore, the continuing exemption of transport is vital for ireland’s well-being. we also believe that member states must continue to be afforded discretion in shaping their tax policies in order to meet their individual needs. in this regard, the continuing availability of zero and reduced rates remains an important issue.
in writing. − i welcome the option included in the report to take into account the effects of a restructuring on the borrowing capacity of the respective banks to economies hit by the economic crisis. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the establishment of a uniform system for trade in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition with the eu. i further welcome the proposal for regulatory guidelines for the export, import, and transfer to third countries of the items concerned, in accordance with the un firearms protocol, which has, thus far, been ratified in 83 countries and signed by 52 signatories.
in writing. − i support this resolution calling on the european council to act decisively and for the president of the commission to table a comprehensive plan with a clear road map setting out distinct phases for its implementation. such a plan should be based entirely on the community method using the existing eu institutional arrangements. indeed, the democratic legitimacy and accountability of any such plan and any related measure need to be ensured through the involvement of parliament. the plan should include as a minimum the following elements: an eu plan for the recapitalisation of european banks; the communitisation of the efsf and the future esm; a meaningful european plan for growth, investment and jobs that also includes project bonds; a proposal for a faster and stronger mechanism which allows the commission to enforce the single market acquis in member states; an economic government for the euro area based on the community method, (particularly with regard to the setting-up of an economic government); proposals to complete the overhaul of financial market regulation; a report on the setting-up of a system of common issuance of european sovereign bonds before the end of 2011.
in writing. − i voted against paragraph 5, indent 4, which considers that a (council) plan should include ways of improving member states’ efforts to coordinate and harmonise elements of their tax systems, including measures against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance. whilst i support measures to combat tax fraud, evasion and avoidance, harmonising tax systems – and thereby possibly tax rates – i cannot support.
in writing. − i voted for this motion for resolution because i believe free movement of persons is a fundamental right and romania and bulgaria have fulfilled the criteria for the successful conclusion of the schengen evaluation process. in the final analysis, this is about the rule of law.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on this resolution (as a whole) since ireland opted not to participate in the schengen arrangements.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report and his work on the disability intergroup. however, i have a feeling in the chamber that this is a debate about ‘us’ and ‘them’. i think if we spoke more about how disability can and will affect anybody – it is not just an issue at birth but many of us will have a disability throughout our lifetime – then we might be dealing with this in a more practical way. there is one issue that i want to specifically address, namely the spending of european union funding, particularly cohesion and structural funding. in some areas we have seen that this is used to re-establish institutions which we have worked to try to dismantle. the message must be – certainly from this parliament – that people with disabilities should be able to live independently with the structures that they require and should not be forced into institutional living. it would be very wrong if european union funding went against the very principles of the un convention. i think that those countries that have not yet ratified that convention should do so. the fact that there is not enough information on the particular issue of the care of people with disabilities in institutions, which is referred to in the report, is something that absolutely needs to be addressed. i think we need to be aware that we should not allow the most vulnerable to suffer due to economic crisis, and in times of austerity we need to make sure that they are the ones that we look after best. my final point is as follows. this house is championing the issue of disabilities with our rapporteur. i think that we could equally do with a champion within the commission. commissioner, i know your minds are full of other things, such as agriculture – and i include myself in that – but this is an issue that is inclusive of all parts of society. it really needs its voice to be heard, even though we are going through very difficult economic times.
in writing. – i welcome this motion and our commitments to the rights of people with disabilities. unfortunately, the practical application of those rights is often impeded by hindrances in a person’s surroundings. recently, i met a group of people from the centre for independent living, which represents people with disabilities in ireland. they highlighted the fact that the personal assistance service, which provides disabled people with assistance in many aspects of their daily lives, is not transferrable throughout europe. this means that many people with disabilities are, in practice, denied freedom of movement. they may not be in a position to take up job offers or promotions in other member states, as they may not be able to avail of a personal assistance service abroad. i feel strongly that this is a service which we must facilitate at eu level, so that all of our citizens can enjoy freedom of movement throughout europe.
in writing. – public procurement policy could be a real driver in promoting high-quality jobs, wages and conditions, equality, skills development, training, and environmental policies, and in providing incentives for research and innovation. the legislative proposal to overhaul public procurement policy, which the commission is to present shortly, should include provisions to ensure that the lowest price is no longer the determining factor for the award of contracts, and that it is replaced by the criterion of most economically advantageous tender, in terms of economic, social and environmental benefit. the current provisions on subcontracting should also be strengthened. the use of several levels of subcontracting can cause problems in terms of compliance with collective agreements, working conditions and health and safety standards. public authorities should be informed of all details of the use of subcontractors before a contract is concluded. indeed, the commission should investigate whether we need further rules on the award of subcontracts – for example, to establish a chain of responsibility. there should also be a reassessment of the appropriate level of thresholds for supply and services contracts – which should be raised if necessary – in order to facilitate, inter alia, not-for-profit and social economy operators’ access to public procurement contracts.
mr president, the sme sector is the central pillar of the irish and the european economy. in ireland approximately one quarter of a million smes employ over 800 000, contributing massively to tax income and social insurances. the sector provides sustainable and long-term employment in many towns and villages throughout my constituency in the north-west of ireland. the cost and availability of credit remains the single biggest obstacle facing this sector, this despite the taxpayer support received by the irish banking sector. as a result, many viable businesses are struggling to maintain employment levels through the recession. in addition, reference has been made to red tape and bureaucracy. it continues to hinder the creation of jobs and must be addressed at european level. i would remind the house, and remind the commissioner, that president barroso gave a commitment in his state of the union address here last year that red tape would be reduced and it would save billions. i have yet to see the effect of this. the sme sector is the engine of the european economy. however, we must provide support by implementing policies to ensure an economic atmosphere conducive to investment and economic growth.
a uachtaráin, is feiliúnach go bhfuilimid ag caint ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo anocht, atá chomh tábhachtach b’fhéidir leis na mórchainteanna atá ar siúl faoi láthair sa chomhairle. mr president, the statistics are compelling: 22.5 million unemployed in europe, yet there are 23 million smes and, if each of them created one job, we would have a surfeit of employment. if you asked smes individually whether they could create one job, i think many of them would tell you that in the right circumstances they certainly could. one of those circumstances is access to credit, which has been pointed out. i know that in my country, while the banks have been capitalised, they have become terrible in terms of assisting smes, even for minimal overdrafts. this is not acceptable and it certainly needs to be looked at. the commissioner also quite rightly pointed out in the last debate the need for simpler regulations regarding smes in terms of public procurement, etc. he also mentioned the importance of venture capital. we are not up to speed with venture capital, particularly compared to the usa, and certainly it is an opportunity to pollinate the economy to create innovative employment. finally, regarding e-commerce, there are different statistics going about, but certainly here is a wonderful opportunity, as well, to help grow the economy, smes and employment.
i scríbhinn. – dé réir an achta um ghnólachtaí beaga chuirfeadh earnáil láidir gnóthas beag agus meánmhéide (gbm) le cumas an ae seasamh i gcoinne éiginnteachtaí i saol an lae inniu. ina ainneoin sin, tá fíordheacrachtaí fós ag gbmanna teacht ar mhaoiniú agus ar chaipiteal. is sa seomra seo a bhí mé anuraidh nuair a dúirt mé leis an bparlaimint go ndearna mórán gnóthas beag teaghlaigh teagmháil liom maidir le fadhbanna i dtaobh teacht ar mhaoiniú agus ar chreidmheas. tá an scéal imithe in olcas ó shin, agus bhí ar roinnt mhaith de na gnóthais sin dúnadh nó daoine a dífhostú. de réir na tuarascála is deireanaí ón mbanc ceannais eorpach maidir le rochtain na gbmanna ar mhaoiniú, níl athrú ná laghdú ar bith tagtha ar líon na gbmanna atá ag tuairisciú go bhfuil deacrachtaí acu teacht ar chaipiteal. bímid de shíor ag caint san ae ar thábhacht na gbmanna ó thaobh téarnaimh gheilleagraigh agus chumas iomaíochta an ae de, ach is beag atá déanta le dul i ngleic le bacainn mhór na gbmanna: rochtain ar chaipiteal. ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt air sin láithreach agus ní foláir don choimisiún é a chur i gcroílár bheartas ar bith a bhaineann leis na gbmanna.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom maidir leis na deacrachtaí airgeadais atá againn san eoraip i láthair na huaire. yesterday’s european council meeting in brussels, which is to resume on wednesday, is a watershed moment for the union and, indeed, the single currency. eu leaders must agree to a comprehensive settlement so as to resolve the crisis in greece and to prevent contagion across the euro zone. last week, in ireland, the troika composed of the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund met with the irish government and, indeed, spokespersons from my own party, as part of the review process agreed under the programme. they concluded that the programme is on track and that ireland is making substantial progress. ireland’s debt sustainability is finely balanced and very much dependent on economic recovery. the summit conclusions on wednesday are expected to include a substantial write-down of greek sovereign debt, possibly to 60%. as a result, i believe that the irish government must seriously question the ecb’s insistence that the irish state repay eur 3.5 billion of unguaranteed loans in anglo irish bank and irish nationwide. finally, large european banks ... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, bíonn an bás brónach i gcónaí agus bíonn sé brónach agus tragóideach nuair a gheibheann duine bás – de bharr timpiste nó galair nó sceimhlitheoireachta – agus do theaghlaigh, go háirithe nuair a chuireann duine lámh ina bhás féin, féinbhás. suicide has been with us at least since the time of judas, and particularly since the economic recession it has become more prevalent across the european union. i see the trend in my own country. however, we do not have any up-to-date or uniform statistics on it and i think it is time that the commission and eurostat addressed that issue across the eu so that we can bridge the knowledge gap and maybe come up with solutions to this unfortunate epidemic. why does the suicide rate vary so much from member state to member state, region to region and parish to parish, and by gender? at the weekend i attended a funeral of a 32-year-old man, with two lovely children and a lovely wife, who had committed suicide. i think that we need to address this issue. i intend to write to the commission and i would ask others to join with me in signing such a letter.
madam president, first of all congratulations to our colleague mr hökmark for his good report and comments. i just want to say two things. one, the transaction tax, has been mentioned, particularly by president barroso, as something desirable that we should implement within europe and some say perhaps within the eurozone. i think it is obviously sensible in terms of logic. firstly, because it is only right the financial sector should contribute, particularly when it has got eur 4.6 trillion from taxpayers generally. but i think it has to apply globally because otherwise it could lead to distortion, particularly of foreign direct investment within various parts of the european union. i think that is a very important point. the second point is that i agree completely with mr hökmark that the european union needs to speak with one voice and it does deserve a seat at the wto, and also that the imf needs to be more transparent and its managing director should be elected.
a uachtaráin, gabhaim buíochas leis an triúr coimisinéirí as bheith anseo ar feadh na maidine. it is particularly appropriate that commissioner barnier is here, as he was here last night when we discussed the modernisation of public procurement. in relation to that report, i drafted paragraph 10 of the opinion of the committee on regional development, which reads: ‘calls on the commission to promote the deployment of a credible ‘procurement passport’ electronic registration system for a given period, which could help reduce the administrative burden for smes in procurement procedures’. i would ask the commission whether it will promote the procurement passport as a model of good practice, so that the administrative burden on smes can be lowered.
mr commissioner, very briefly, when do you see the procurement passport becoming a reality?
mr president, it gave me great pleasure to vote for this report today and i want to say that i totally support the commission’s 10-year european disability strategy. it aims to increase to 75% the proportion of working-age people across europe in employment by 2020. this increase simply cannot be achieved without inclusive and specially adapted training programmes. last week, you and i hosted the signing of the microsoft and workability international education alliance. this is an exciting initiative and an example of a step towards realising our common vision of changing public and industrial perceptions of people with disabilities. this partnership will help people with disabilities to break out of their previous confinement to blue-collar jobs and to realise their full potential through the provision of technology courses aligned with industry and industry’s hiring needs. the technologies are practical and they will be made to work, but ultimately they will work only if member states adopt and implement them.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas ormsa chomh maith tacú leis an tuarascáil seo agus ba mhaith liom mo chara atá ina shuí os mo comhair amach, an tuasal kósa, a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé mar rapóirtéir. it is of course very important that we treat all people equally. unfortunately people with disabilities have suffered more than most as a result of the economic recession, especially in terms of employment opportunities. hopefully that can be addressed as we come out of recession. in relation to facilities, i think we should be utilising particularly the structural funds to ensure that facilities are up to the required standard so that everybody can have access to buildings, etc. thirdly, i would like to highlight the role that sport is playing in helping people with disabilities, particularly movements like the paralympics and the special olympics, which are helping to highlight people’s abilities – as opposed to their disabilities – and giving them a new lease of life.
a uachtaráin, bhí díospóireacht mhaith againn ar an ábhar seo aréir agus arís ar maidin tháinig sé suas sna ceisteanna ar na coimisinéirí. agus is maith an rud é gur ghlacamar leis an tuarascáil sna vótaí ar maidin. there are just two points i want to emphasise. firstly, i think the emphasis on smes is absolutely vital. they are the future of europe to a large degree and, particularly in relation to public procurement, we can do a great deal to make matters easier for them. i look forward in particular to my proposal regarding the procurement passport for smes becoming a reality as soon as possible. secondly, as has been mentioned by the previous speaker and others, it is absolutely vital that we get away from the lowest cost tender. this has come up in many discussions i have had in this regard – only this morning with some american business people – because we have to put the 2020 strategy first. particular issues, like energy conservation and also the overall aspect of employment etc., have to be taken into consideration when we are looking into these matters.
mr president, many of our problems today in the world are global, not local, and the solutions therefore need to be global as well. there is not much point in europe introducing measures which may be right in themselves but which are actually going to disadvantage the eurozone area or the european union. they have to be global solutions, particularly in relation to things like transaction tax. i think too that we, as the european union, need to demand a seat on the world bank and international monetary fund governing bodies. the imf needs to be far more democratic than it is currently. its managing director needs to be elected on a merit-based system, and transitional developing countries also need greater voting rights. these measures are worth aiming for, and if we can get them we will have a better system for dealing with the problems we face at the moment and ensuring those problems do not occur again in the future.
a uachtaráin, aréir nuair a bhí an díospóireacht seo ar siúl, bhí mé ann agus dúradh gur trua an rud é nár labhair aon fhear. ós rud é go mbaineann an teideal le mná nó máithreacha, seachas aithreacha, is dócha gurb é sin an fáth. ach anois, tá triúr fear tar éis caint – mé féin agus beirt eile – agus thugamar tacaíocht don tuarascáil seo. so in relation to this topic, obviously where there are genuine situations of single mothers, or indeed single fathers, they have to be treated with respect and given every opportunity to further both themselves and their child. especially we have to ensure that they do not fall into the poverty trap or suffer from social exclusion. they are measures that i think we would certainly support. i think it should also be established whether they are genuine cases and that they are supported when they are genuine. when they are not, obviously this causes a dilemma.
in writing. − i welcome the recommendations for improving the council’s position with regard to the european external action service (eeas) establishment plan, and the calls on the eeas to show restraint in relation to possible future plans for the creation of additional high-ranking posts. i supported this report.
in writing. − i welcome the measures taken by the new management and governance of the college, in response to parliament’s previous requests for action, to tackle its deficiencies. in the light of the improvements made, i support parliament’s decision to grant discharge to the college in respect of the agency’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − i support this report and welcome the measures taken by the european medicines agency to address its shortcomings in 2009. i support calls for the agency to continue to inform the discharge authority, on a three-monthly basis, about the results of actions requested. the agency is also called upon to proceed promptly with the adoption of an action plan to remedy the shortcomings in procurement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls on parliament and the council to issue a directive relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers, and to the fitting thereof.
in writing. − consumer protection and confidence have become increasingly important for the effective functioning of the single market, which can be strengthened through adequate law enforcement and by paving the way for more effective alternative dispute resolution (adr). adr schemes are quicker and more informal and offer practical solutions. it is vital that these schemes go beyond consumer disputes, that they are completely transparent and that they are independently monitored. i support this report.
in writing. − i welcome this report on alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters. out-of-court dispute settlement is an effective, accessible and simple means of restoring legal peace between parties, and it can be more widely used if we promote better awareness and understanding of the relevant mechanisms. justice is a fundamental right, and expedient access to it across the eu member states’ borders is essential in order to consolidate undertakings’ and consumers’ trust in the internal market as a safe environment in which to do business and to shop. however, in contrast to the approach taken in the commission’s consultation, our contention is that the scope of alternative dispute resolution should not be confined to commercial matters. our constituents are citizens, not merely consumers. other civil matters, including family disputes, increasingly extend beyond the borders of individual member states, as our citizens enjoy the dividends of european integration. common standards for alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, especially as regards impartiality, transparency, fairness and confidentiality, are key to establishing easy and trusted access to justice across the eu, and they need to be underpinned by cross-border enforceability.
i scríbhinn. − bhuaileamar le déanaí le baill éireannacha den ionad um mhaireachtáil neamhspleách a bhí i strasbourg don ‘freedom drive’ bliantúil. dhírigh an grúpa céanna sin aird na bhfeisirí ar na deacrachtaí atá ag daoine faoi mhíchumas san ae. ceann de na deacrachtaí is suntasaí a luadh ná na bacainní ar shaorghluaiseacht, agus seo in aontas ina bhfuil an tsaorghluaiseacht in ainm is a bheith mar buncheart do chách. vótálamar i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo ach ní mór breis airde a dhíriú ar bhuntábhacht inaistritheacht na seirbhísí um chúnamh pearsanta chun saorghluaiseacht dhaoine faoi mhíchumas a fheabhsú. mar atá faoi láthair, ní inaistrithe atá na seirbhísí um chúnamh pearsanta agus nuair a bhogann duine atá faoi mhíchumas go ballstát eile – ar chúiseanna pearsanta nó proifisiúnta – is minic nach mbíonn an tseirbhís riachtanach seo ar fáil dó nó di láithreach, agus bíonn air nó uirthi iarratas nua a chur isteach sa bhallstát nua agus gan aon chinnteacht ann go gcuirfí an tseirbhís ar fáil dó nó di sa tír nua. is chun leasa mhuintir na heorpa ar fad agus phrionsabal na saorghluaiseachta a bheadh sé dá n-áiritheodh an coimisiún agus na ballstáit le chéile go mbeadh an tseirbhís seo inaistrithe.
in writing. − i support this report on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, which aims to empower persons with disabilities so that they can enjoy their full rights and fully participate in society and in the european economy and identifies eight main areas for action: accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training, social protection, health, and external action. anti-discrimination policy is key to promoting social inclusion and employment for people with disabilities. the member states should not only sign and ratify the un convention on the rights of the disabled and its additional protocols; they should also develop national policies and strategies on disabilities in harmony with the european commission’s european disability strategy (eds) and the eu2020 strategy. they should also review the existing national-level documents on this matter. the commission’s action plan for the period until 2015, linked to the eds, is a step in the right direction, but support should also be given to measures with specific deadlines and programme elements which would improve implementation.
in writing. − the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, in terms of both employment and social inclusion, are still not as good as they ought to be. i voted in favour of this report, which is specifically about people with disabilities; however, i voted against the original paragraph 53 because it seeks to broaden the scope of the report.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the modernisation of public procurement rules. european rules on tendering procedures must not undermine workers’ rights and social conditions. when public authorities purchase goods and services to meet our citizens’ various needs, we must not – for the sake of securing the cheapest price at any price – ignore the needs of the workers who provide them. the ‘cheapest tender’ principle needs to be reviewed so as to cover social and environmental criteria, taking into account the full costs of each option presented. decent work standards have to be upheld. otherwise, when pursuing public-interest goals, we risk undermining social conditions. fair and equal pay and proper working conditions, which safeguard health and safety, are not incompatible with sound financial management. tender applicants must not be allowed to evade their obligations by hiding behind a chain of subcontractors which can render them unaccountable. we also need to consider changes to the current thresholds for supply and services contracts, so as to ensure that charities, ngos and small local operators are not deprived of access to these markets as a result of legal and administrative burdens which are unjustified in the environments where such organisations operate, and which paralyse them, to nobody’s benefit.
in writing. − i support this report, which calls for the mobility of workers in an eu free of barriers, with strong integration policies and guaranteeing the respect of social and labour rights, including the right to strike, collective representation and equal pay for work of equal value. the commission should promote labour mobility by presenting a long-term, comprehensive, multidisciplinary mobility strategy to remove all existing legal, administrative and practical barriers to the free movement of workers, and the member states should create mechanisms of cooperation aimed at preventing the negative effects of mobility, mainly on families. the equal treatment of workers is the way to prevent social dumping. for adequate protection of labour rights, the principle of ‘equal pay for the same work in the same place’ must be applied in both national legislation and collective agreements. labour inspection services and their coordination at eu level should be increased, not least in order to counteract both the direct and indirect discrimination and exploitation of migrant workers and false self-employment among mobile workers.
in writing. − paragraph 31 of the motion for a resolution calls for an examination of member states’ legislation in relation to social security, the care system and taxation. it is important that such legislation should remain within the remit of the member states. taxation is, and should remain, a member state competence. for this reason i did not support paragraph 31.
in writing. − i supported this report. the eu plays a leading role in global economic reform, and responsible monetary policies should be practised consistently throughout the member states. global economic governance must be sufficiently responsive, flexible and pragmatic and must allow for the adoption of a common approach on monetary policy and international trade. particularly in the context of the current financial crisis, i welcome the calls for a more responsible monetary policy and stronger financial regulation and supervision.
in writing. − i support this report, which focuses on the situation of single mothers in the eu. single mothers face multiple problems, such as the interruption of their education, bad health, unemployment and a higher risk of poverty – in fact, 32% of single-mother households in the eu 25 were at risk of poverty, compared to 12% for couples. the barcelona european council called for the provision of childcare for at least 33% of children under 3 years and for 90% from 3 years up to school age. however, only five member states have met these targets. this report calls on the member states to redouble their efforts and be more ambitious and ensure access to child care facilities for 50% of 0-3 year-olds and 100% for 3-6 year-olds. it also proposes tax breaks for companies that employ single parents and provide child care facilities. the report also addresses the role of the father and shared care, which is very common in some member states but almost non-existent in others. it urges the member states to introduce specially-designed policies and financial assistance for single mothers and to ensure regular payment.
in writing. − currently, five percent of european females are single mothers, and 85% of all single parents in europe are single mothers between the ages of 25 and 64. the current economic crisis has highlighted the hardships faced by single mothers across the eu. i welcome the calls in this report for member states to identify common policies through the exchange of best practices in europe, and for measures to prevent and combat the risk of poverty and social exclusion for single mothers. i supported this report overall, however i voted against recital m because matters of sexual and reproductive rights are a responsibility of the member states.
in writing. − i welcome this report for its examination of an issue which is often overlooked, namely the plight of the single mother. while it may feel uncomfortable to consider the issue of single mothers, as opposed to single parents, the fact remains that women make up the vast majority of single parents across europe. in fact, in ireland, over 90% of single parents with children aged under 20 are single mothers. it is vital that levels of welfare payments to single mothers and their families remain intact in the current economic climate. such families are already at a higher risk of poverty than other groups in society. young single mothers have higher rates of unemployment than average and are more likely to be working part-time or in underpaid jobs. we must ensure that member states protect this vulnerable group and devise national policies aimed at preventing a slide into poverty for single mothers and their families.
in writing. − i welcome this very necessary report. while overall crime rates have been steadily falling throughout europe since 2002, according to eurostat 2010 crime statistics, drug trafficking has generally risen. the sale of illegal drugs is a main revenue generator for organised criminals, feeding the underworld that also promotes human trafficking. this is the kind of serious crime that requires urgent attention. we must not allow criminals to use the eu policy of free movement of people and goods to their illegal benefit: the 27 eu member states must share information and cooperate in the fight against crime. we must be particularly vigilant and step up our efforts now – criminals often being the first to profit in tough economic times as they tend to use financial enticements or manipulation to recruit young and vulnerable people. the treaty of lisbon provides for greater cooperation involving judicial systems, police forces and the authorities responsible for countering transnational organised crime (europol, eurojust, olaf and the european public prosecutor). through this report, parliament has supported the strengthening of those structures involved in fighting organised crime, and of relations with other international institutions such as the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc) and interpol. vitally, the internationalisation of efforts to combat mafia-style criminal organisations is also prioritised.
in writing. − i welcome this report by ms alfano on organised crime in europe. there are two elements on which i wish to comment. firstly, the need for a directive with the specific aim of taking the proceeds of crime out of the hands of those who perpetrate it is increasingly patent. in ireland, this step was taken by the establishment of the criminal assets bureau in 1996. since then, the bureau has taken more than eur 129 million out of the hands of criminals and criminal gangs. however, with improved implementation of the principle of free movement of workers and goods, it has become easier for criminal gangs to move money and assets around throughout the union: hence the need for a pan-european approach. secondly, i would point out that in every part of my home constituency we face problems with criminal gangs dealing in drugs. as stated in the 2011 cross-border crime assessment, practically all illicit drugs in ireland are imported – as opposed to being locally produced – mostly from mainland europe. there is a need for a fully coordinated european approach which tackles this issue from the manufacturer right through to the pusher on the ground, leaving no link in the chain untouched.
in writing. − development aid can have a positive impact beyond merely providing a buffer against hunger and deprivation in developing countries, as it contributes to curbing poverty and promoting human rights. development aid is crucial for receiving countries in terms of reducing poverty. however, development aid should not be seen as enough to combat it on its own - it will take more than simply doling out money to change this. it is important to address the root causes of poverty, and to promote job creation and international trade as means of combating poverty. development aid has a role to play in the eu's foreign policy. collectively, the eu and its member states contribute more than half of global overseas development aid. my own member state, ireland, gave eur 675.8 million of development aid in 2010. as such, development aid is an important instrument which the eu can use to shape issues such as human rights, social inclusion, gender equality, citizenship and climate change.
madam president, from the speeches of some of the other members one would get the impression that arcelormittal is simply an isolated bad apple. unfortunately it is not: it is part of a tree of rotten apples; it is part of a trend of profitable corporations using the crisis as a cover to throw thousands, or tens of thousands, of workers onto the scrapheap in order to maximise already healthy profits and push them up even further. this represents a failure of right-wing governments and their policies, and their fawning over these corporations: the creation of taxation policies to suit these corporations and the giving of subsidies to these corporations. look at the massive tax breaks from which arcelormittal has benefited in belgium. arcelormittal belgium declared eur 59 million in profits and paid eur 42 000 in taxes. arcelormittal upstream announced profits of eur 35 million and paid a whopping eur 936 in taxes, and arcelormittal finance managed to declare profits of eur 1.4 billion and not pay a single cent in taxes. what is the thanks for this generosity on the part of the belgian state, paid for by belgian workers and by the impact on public services and so on? almost 1 000 direct job losses, and many more jobs indirectly lost. the same applies in ireland where, despite our generous corporation tax rate, and despite increasing its european profits by 21% over the past year, the insurance company aviva is still committed to laying off 1 000 workers. the response of the commission reminds me of the response of the irish government, which is mere lip service – crocodile tears for the workers who have lost their jobs, but a continuation of the policies that got us here. i support the demands of the workers in arcelormittal to nationalise that company to save the jobs, and i think the trade union movement across europe must, in the context of unemployment and the context of the crisis, wage a campaign to have any major corporation threatening job losses taken into democratic public ownership and run under democratic workers’ control.
madam president, i would first like to thank regina bastos for the report. i hope that by tomorrow we can have agreement on a number of improvements, which will enable the socialists and democrats group to fully support this report. employment growth is the most urgent need in europe and must be built into our response to the banking and economic crisis. there seems to be a disconnection between the economic and social policies in europe. on the one hand we have the skills and jobs agenda and on the other, austerity programmes which insist that member states cut social support to the unemployed on the spurious grounds that the unemployed are being disincentivised to take up work. however, studies in ireland have shown that the unemployed are better off financially if they can find even a minimum-wage job. the problem is that even low-paid jobs are not available. the troika reports that ireland’s programme is on target, and i am often asked why there are no riots in ireland. i could advance many reasons for this, but one of the most fundamental reasons is that the government has negotiated with the trade unions the reforms in the labour market and in the public services that are required. i would urge that we have some common sense. flexicurity without security is a contradiction in terms and, if it is imposed, it will result only in deeper alienation. it will result in a deeply stagnant economy and higher levels of poverty. i believe we must ensure that, when we move forward, we do so on the basis of a broad consensus of labour and capital.
madam president, this morning i was at a meeting with jeff immelt, the ceo of general electric, one of the top ceos in the world, and chairman of president obama’s jobs council. when he spoke about the challenges facing the us, he could have been speaking about europe as well: to invest in new infrastructure, create new smes, increase fdi and simplify regulations. but he also said that they had identified certain areas where they needed in particular to have more graduates. for instance, he said they needed 10 000 new engineers per year and that they were putting in place a strategy to ensure that is delivered. i think we need to do the same here in europe, and in particular to ensure that we have identified the areas where we need new graduates and that we have the institutions, the its and universities to deliver them, because if we do not get it right at that level, then it is going to have a ripple effect down the line.
mr president, this is a timely question from mrs estrela, and i would like to thank her. i have been a midwife for over 20 years and i have heard some very discriminatory remarks here this evening. in ireland we have a good level of maternity leave and also an option for eight weeks’ unpaid leave, but the situation for fathers is nowhere near as good. they have no entitlement to paid leave at all. fathers, in fact, can be very badly treated in the justice system across the eu, and workers in general have made huge sacrifices through cuts in pay, hours and allowances. it is time that we recognised this and granted fathers paternity leave. 19 eu countries already have paternity leave, and making a statement of intent to extend this meagre entitlement to fathers is the right thing to do.
mr president, i am against the report on the eu budget because it does not deal with the urgent tasks that are posed by the economic crisis, the consequences of which are devastating for working class people and young people across europe. once more we have a budget for a big-business and militarised europe, with more money being spent on security than on education, and, incredibly, a proposal to increase the amount of funding for the nuclear research programme, despite the increased opposition to nuclear power across europe. the proposed cuts to translation and interpretation services represent an attack on the rights of speakers of minority languages and the principles of multilingualism. the right of the public to access documents in their own language must be defended. at the same time there are no cuts to the obscenely large expenses which are granted to meps. i signed an amendment proposing to cut the general expenditure allowance, which is eur 4 299 per month. as meps know – but perhaps many members of the public do not – that is only one of a whole series of large expenses that go on top of an already very fat salary. the same overpaid meps that are calling on underpaid working-class people to tighten their belts further, to accept more vicious austerity, show no indication of being willing to tighten their own belts.
in writing. − amendment 26 in this report brings forward additional proposals for making savings in all kinds of travel expenditure. i supported this amendment. amendment 27 notes that the general expenditure allowance is frozen at the 2011 level and calls on the bureau not to index any of the members' allowances, including the 'daily' allowance. i also supported this amendment.
in writing. − the agreement allows for better promotion of the two systems and allows people to develop applications for the services. it is important that the eu have its own system, in order to remove dependency on systems from outside the union, but, at the same time, we must ensure that we work together so that there are some common standards developed for this technology. today's european parliament approval will allow for this.
in writing. − we voted against this report due to several references to minimum rates of taxation. the setting of tax rates – including corporation tax – is the responsibility of each member state. this right is enshrined in the protocols attached to the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i do not support the amendments to the recast in this text that refer to minimum rates of taxation. taxation is, and should remain, a member state competence. for this reason, i voted against this report.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo agus i bhfabhar moltaí an rapóirtéara maidir le cáilíochtaí a aithint go frithpháirteach idir ballstáit an ae, agus go háirithe idir ballstáit agus tríú tíortha. is í an deacracht is mó a bhíonn ag aos óg an ae ná aitheantas a fháil do cháilíochtaí a bronnadh orthu i mballstát eile, agus é seo in ainneoin an chreata eorpaigh um cháilíochtaí. is í an éiginnteacht atá ann maidir le ceisteanna cosúil le tréimhsí promhaidh do mhúinteoirí is mó atá mar chúis leis na deacrachtaí sin. ní mór go mbeadh sé níos éasca ar chéimithe bogadh ó bhallstát amháin go ceann eile ar mhaithe le fostaíocht agus oiliúint agus go mbeadh comhaitheantas ann idir na ballstáit ar cháilíochtaí céimithe agus ar thréimhsí promhaidh, agus is faoin ae atá sé é seo a chinntiú. thairis sin, tacaím leis an mbéim a chuireann an rapóirtéir ar an tábhacht a bhaineann leis an ngaol idir an earnáil ghnó agus na hollscoileanna a fhorbairt agus an caidreamh ‘gnó-ollscoil’ a neartú ionas go mbeadh na scileanna agus an oiliúint chuí ag céimithe na heorpa chun aidhmeanna straitéis 2020 don eoraip a bhaint amach.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome, in particular, the calls for a reduction in the administrative burden placed on smes.
in writing. − i welcome this report by ms bastos on the agenda for new skills and jobs. we must not neglect investment in social, health, care and educational services and infrastructure. such an investment would not only lead to an increase in the standard of care for service-users but, due to changes in the demographic structure of the european union, it would also promote sustainable employment. secondly, we need to enquire into the working conditions for carers and workers in the care sector. in ireland, over 160 000 people identified themselves as carers at the last census. however, only 56% of these carers were in paid employment. this is despite their contributing an estimated eur 2.5 billion to the economy. more needs to be done to ensure greater recognition and working conditions for carers. thirdly, a more inclusive labour market is needed, particularly where young people are concerned. across the 27 member states, youth unemployment is at a record-high with 20.5% of european youth unemployed. there is undoubtedly a need to promote traineeships and apprenticeships for school-leavers, but also to ensure that these programmes are accessible and lead to sustainable jobs and long-term employment.
madam president, the need to adapt our child protection policies to effectively tackle the realities of the 21st century is undeniable. in particular, the possibility of introducing technical blocking mechanisms to prevent individuals from gaining access to online sexually exploitative content depicting a child is a welcome development. it has been said of this policy that it is unproven and that it potentially undermines freedom of information and communication on the internet. colleagues, in law and in reality there is no such thing as an absolute right or freedom, but instead each freedom is qualified and must be balanced against opposing freedoms. the right to freely communicate does not preclude the need to protect the fundamental rights of children and minors. secondly, i support this proposal’s aim to legislate for victims’ rights. this proposal puts victims’ rights on a statutory footing and in general encompasses the provision of adequate support to victims before, during and after a criminal investigation.
madam president, any abuse of children is a heinous, appalling reprehensible act. it has gone on for years but it has only recently come into the public domain and perhaps no place more than my own country, where reports have highlighted the abuse of children by clergy and members of religious orders. as a result certain actions have been taken to protect children and to deal with the offenders. indeed, i am pleased to say that the government is introducing a referendum to the constitution to further guarantee the rights of the child. it is good that we are discussing this here today, because we can give it a broader dimension, particularly in terms of bringing legislation onto a european-wide basis which can guarantee the rights of children and protect them in the future. we also need to concentrate on education, and especially in relation to social media which are being used more and more to attract children into situations where they can be abused.
madam president, we live in a world that has changed hugely in recent years – unimaginable 50 years ago – where there is great freedom to travel. but with that freedom has come some dangers. in particular we have seen how a terrorist can strike with devastating effect and how criminals have great ingenuity in getting whatever they require. there is a need for governments in particular to try to protect their citizens. the difficulty is where you draw the line, in particular between security and data protection, profiling, etc. but i think that, on balance, we are getting that balance right. what we have is not perfect but is certainly a basis for improving matters as we go forward, particularly when we are talking about agreements with the us and canada, etc. it is a start: it is not perfect but is a step in the right direction.
mr president, i should also like to thank the rapporteur. scrutiny, transparency and freedom of speech are all central tenets of our democratic process. however, freedom of speech is only effective if somebody is there to listen. the european ombudsman exists to ensure that our citizens are listened to and last year performed that job competently, receiving 2 667 complaints from across europe. it is vital that this process be built upon and that it continues. there is, though, much still to be done in the field of transparency in the eu. lobbying in the european institutions and indeed in many member states can still sometimes resemble the wild west. members should firstly be aware of this anomaly and secondly should work to improve the transparency of our workplace in order to provide an example to other democratic institutions across the eu.
mr president, i welcome the continued efforts made by the ombudsman to improve transparency and access to information within the european institutions. the reduction in critical remarks delivered in the ombudsman’s report from 55 in 2007 to 33 in 2010 can be interpreted as an enhancement of transparency within the european institutions. secondly, we need to establish a web portal for the european parliament’s committee on petitions, similar to that of the european ombudsman’s office. such a web portal is of the utmost importance to the committee if we are to increase the amount of admissible applications by our citizens. this would enhance parliament’s responsiveness to citizens’ complaints with regard to maladministration, as well as their trust in the laws that we make and in their proper implementation.
mr president, we all benefit from having somebody looking over our shoulder and making sure we perform appropriately. in this regard, the ombudsman is doing a very good job in holding the commission and the other institutions to account, particularly when citizens have complaints. when you consider that there are 500 million citizens in the european union, the number of complaints are few. whether this is because they have nothing to complain about or are not aware of their rights is a very debatable point. however, the ombudsman does seem to be doing a good job with those that discover his office, and his desire to create a culture of service is entirely appropriate. i want to conclude by asking one question. he had to make a special report to parliament regarding the failure of the commission to respond to findings; it took them 15 months, when the time limit was three months. is he aware of anybody within the commission being held to account for this and of penalties being imposed as a result?
mr president, i welcome the ombudsman’s presence here; we have had good exchanges in the past and, while i do not serve on the petitions committee now, i keep an eye on his work. mr diamandouros, i think it is important to say – because it is in the report – that while only 27% of complaints were appropriate to your office, you did actually deal with all of the complaints. you did not leave people without some form of redress, but redirected them where it was more appropriate. i think that is important; it is also true to say that i suspect it is only the best informed and best motivated who actually go to the ombudsman with their complaint. there are many others who, when they fail to get a response from the commission, do nothing at all. you will be dealing with a complaint from an irish constituent of mine in your 2011 report. in that case you found that the commission had failed to respond; you acted very swiftly, and we have had a response. i wonder, when there is alleged maladministration, is it the case that the commission just ignores emails and hopes that people will go away? if so, it is entirely wrong.
mr president, the sectarian violence in egypt stands in stark contrast to the united movement which characterised the first phase of the revolution in egypt. then we saw working-class people, young people, older people, unemployed people and poor farmers fighting together across the religious divide to overthrow the hated dictatorship of mubarak and to fight for real social change. it is the strength of that united movement that strikes fear into the heart of the military regime and the ruling class that they represent. that fear has returned to haunt them in recent times when they face significant strike movements of textile workers and teachers, to give two examples: people fighting for wage rises and to continue the revolutionary process. the increase in sectarianism plays into the hands of the elite in egypt who want to divide and rule working-class people. to move forward, what is needed is a united movement of workers across the divide to continue and deepen the revolution, fighting on the basis of a socialist programme to transform eygptian society, to sweep away the remnants of the old regime and to obtain real social change.
in writing. − i would like to echo the report in congratulating mr diamandouros on his re-election. it can often be challenging to communicate the message of the eu to our constituents, and the ombudsman plays an important part in communicating that message and ensuring that the eu institutions are as transparent as possible. i remain concerned over the disproportionately high number of transparency cases brought to the ombudsman; this is clearly an area which requires further attention. we must continue to analyse the most frequent transparency complaints and take steps to increase transparency. we must also highlight the improvements in transparency that have already occurred. every question asked, speech made, report amended and written declaration signed by an mep is freely available and, in many ways, the european parliament is far more transparent than any national parliament. however we will continue to dialogue with the citizen to strive for increased transparency.
in writing. − the most common allegation examined by the ombudsman in 2010 related to the lack of transparency in the eu administration. i support this report and its calls for the delivery of faster results by reducing the time needed to close inquiries and by developing simplified procedures for rapid resolutions of complaints.
i scríbhinn. − cuirtear breis is 200 grianghraf phornagrafacha nua de leanaí ar an idirlíon gach lá; mar sin ní foláir den ae reachtaíocht a thabhairt isteach a chuirfeadh ar chumas an ae agus na mballstát bearta láidre comhordaithe a ghlacadh chun leanaí a chosaint, agus iad siúd a thagann i dtír orthu a ionchúiseamh mar is ceart. níl sé maith go leor nach bhfuil comhordú éifeachtach á dhéanamh san ae chun an teacht i dtír gnéasach ar leanaí a chomhrac. ní mór cur chuige cuimsitheach a chur i bhfeidhm, lena mbeadh ionchúiseamh ciontóirí, cosaint leanaí agus cosc ar chionta dá leithéid i gceist. d’fhéadfaí bac a chur ar dhaoine teacht ar an ábhar seo ar líne agus é a chur ar chumas an ae cosc a chur ar shuíomhanna áirithe ó lasmuigh den ae. chuirfeadh pionóis chomhordaithe agus pianbhreitheanna íosta i gcás 20 cion bonn láidir le cur chuige comhordaithe eorpach. is pointe láidir é freisin gur féidir leis na ballstáit pionós níos déine a ghearradh nuair a mheastar go bhfuil gá leis. tacaím freisin leis an moladh maidir le bearta dlíthiúla a chur i bhfeidhm sna ballstáit uile chun a chinntiú go mbíonn cosaint ann d’íobartaigh le linn imeachtaí dlí.
in writing. − the protection of children from sexual abuse and exploitation should be a priority in all member states. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to combat the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children by criminalising any such abuse and exploitation not currently covered by eu legislation.
in writing. − this directive is essential to ensure a high standard of protection for people who suffer violence in their countries of origin. there are large differences between the member states in terms of the number of people who are granted refugee status. indeed, ireland is among the member states with the lowest levels of recognition rates in europe, with 1 575 out of 1 600 applications rejected at first instance in 2010. we must do all we can to ensure that people have the same access to protection wherever they are in europe; that, wherever people are at risk of indiscriminate violence, where they cannot return home because of a legitimate fear of persecution, our member states will offer them protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. under this legislation, european air carriers operating flights to and from australia will continue to transmit the pnr (passenger name record) data they collect to the australian customs and border protection service. a provision is also outlined for a regular, joint review of its operation.
in writing. − whilst this report has very many good aspects, i did not support paragraph 28, which calls on the commission to make legislative proposals to phase out the prophylactic use of antibiotics in livestock farming. i believe at this moment it is a step too far to call for the phasing out of prophylactics without a clear understanding of the implication or alternatives in place. because paragraph 28 was adopted, i could not support the text of the final report, and voted against.
author. − mr president, first of all i want to salute the determination and courage of the protestors in bahrain, who have stood up against absolutely brutal repression in fighting for democratic rights and change in bahrain. the hollowness of the supposed commitment of us imperialism to democracy is demonstrated by their continued support for the regime in bahrain. at the start of this month they sold another 53 million dollars’ worth of weapons to the regime; these weapons will be used, like the weapons before them and like the weapons provided by britain, to mow down peaceful protestors. the military trial and torture of medical personnel was an indication of the brutality in which the regime engaged. because of pressure brought upon them, those sentences given by the military courts have now been revoked – they will be given civil trials. however, we have to say that there is no reason why these medics should be up before any court at all. they are guilty of nothing but treating the injured and should be released immediately. i have no confidence whatsoever in the so-called independent commission of inquiry. this commission cannot be trusted; what is needed is a genuine people’s tribunal which could actually investigate and expose the gross abuses of human rights by the regime. there can be no reconciliation or meaningful dialogue with this regime. in my opinion it needs to be overthrown by the bahraini workers, the bahraini youth and the bahraini poor.
mr president, i merely wanted your attention. a uachtaráin, tá súil agam go mbeidh tú in ann cuidiú liom. tá sé beagnach cúig bliana ó tugadh aitheantas don ghaeilge anseo san eoraip. almost all of the institutions have a website in irish. parliament has a website in 22 of the 23 languages but none in irish. basically, i am asking you for assistance. when will parliament fall into line with the other institutions and ensure that there is a website in all 23 languages and that there is no discrimination against the irish language?
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom cúpla focal a rá, le do thoil. i would like to say a few words in support of what mr gallagher has said. it is rather insensitive for one language to be left out like this and i would ask that the issue be addressed.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this important report. given the increasing numbers of skilled young graduates who find themselves without employment, it is essential that the eu puts in place a system that allows our graduates to move and secure employment across the 27 member states with ease. studies show that 50% of young europeans wish to work abroad but are hindered in doing so by a cumbersome process. it is clear that the current system of recognising professional qualifications earned in another member state is time-consuming, complex and not employer-friendly. the harmonisation of rules concerning the exchange of information for each individual profession would be a welcome step, along with creating database systems and information-sharing processes that will assist graduates in their mobility across the eu. in particular, i wish to draw parliament’s and the commission’s attention to the problems that graduates are dealing with in terms of the grey area around professional qualifications. by this i mean compulsory probationary periods that are not being recognised across borders. for example, i personally know of a young qualified teacher who has been awarded the academic qualification for teaching but cannot take up work as a teacher as the probationary training undertaken in the uk is not recognised in ireland. however, her counterparts have no problem qualifying in the uk and completing their probationary training in ireland. this administrative contradiction is placing many teaching graduates in limbo. their professional qualifications are recognised, but they still cannot take up employment as they cannot get registered. the lack of equivalence of standards here is causing real problems for graduates and requires immediate action from the member states and the commission in order to stop them being penalised for being mobile and taking up training opportunities in other member states. graduates should not be left in limbo, and measures need to be implemented without delay to ensure that they have access to a truly internal market and that the professional qualifications directive is broad enough to cover all aspects of qualification.
mr president, as the previous speaker said, this is a very important topic, but not many people realise how important it is. as he pointed out, einstein certainly knew how important it was. his quotation is well worth recalling, and indeed highlighting, because if 85% of species are dependent on pollination and the bee dies out, then that is the end of it. certainly einstein was quite right in that regard. there are a lot of issues here which have to be looked at. the department of agriculture has been successful in ireland in preserving our native bee species by not allowing foreign species to be imported. i think it is very important that the purity of various species is preserved because this is a huge issue. also, in terms of the economy, if we can increase the importance of honey as part of a stable diet, we could certainly also look at that to improve the situation.
mr president, i would have preferred if this report was about bees – both honey bees and bumble bees, and i think other colleagues have mentioned the issue of wild bees. before everyone jumps to their own conclusion about the causes of the problem, this report actually talks about the lack of reliable and comparative data on issues around honey bees and colony loss, and that we need an effective system that gives us information that we can actually work from. i think that is really important. the idea of pesticides being a problem needs to be looked at, but the idea that farmers should use as little pesticide as possible, or that they use too much, should – and is – being regulated with new legislation on sustainable use of pesticides. that needs to be acknowledged. i do accept that in terms of habitats all insects need the appropriate area and, to my colleague who has just mentioned this, i have planted a number of hectares for bees on land that i have, and it does work. the bumble bees are there and it is effective. so these measures can be adopted into our agricultural policy, which i will support.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to see that many events and discussions have taken place this year in parliament, in the council and elsewhere following the commission communication on bee health last december. this shows that this communication has been instrumental in forging a better understanding of this matter. our initial assessment remains valid. the health of bees is strongly affected by various factors while to date science has not yet determined the exact causes or the extent of bee loss. let me express here my appreciation for the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr tabajdi, who has produced a balanced report on this complex area. the many factors affecting bee health are reflected in the report. unfortunately, we agree that there are no quick and easy fixes, no one single solution, but it is clear that our research efforts need to be stepped up. we will pay attention to this in the selection of future research programmes, and we can fine-tune those elements which appear most influential. the commission has already completed several key actions, such as the designation of an eu reference laboratory for bee health and an increase in the eu’s contribution to the financing of the national apiculture programmes. i appreciate parliament’s support for these initiatives. other actions are already planned. parliament’s report certainly gives us food for thought on those items and on many more additional points. i can assure the honourable members that we will look into all your suggestions with close attention. i am confident that our action will place us in a better position to decide on the best actions and strategies. i would remind you, however, that the commission has limited resources and tools. member states and stakeholders have an important role to play. this could mean, for instance, investing further efforts in developing and putting on the market veterinary medicines. similarly, member states and stakeholder organisations could further promote good apiculture and agricultural practices, facilitate the dialogue between crop producers and bee-keepers, and disseminate practical information to bee-keepers. once again, may i say that i very much appreciate parliament’s valuable report of and look forward to continuing to make further progress on this important matter.
mr president, demographic change in the eu is a fact, and adapting to it has become a key priority for the future. there have been demographic changes due to low fertility rates, an ageing population, migratory patterns and a population shift from rural to urban areas. these changes in our population levels and patterns have brought a number of challenges and opportunities with them. we must make sure we are able to address these challenges and take advantage of these opportunities. member states can use the structural funds to develop strategies to manage demographic change. we must ensure that we have up-to-date information on demographic changes within our member states and especially within the different regions in our states. this information can then be used for the redistribution of structural funds to the areas in greatest need. housing upkeep and social integration of the elderly in ireland and elsewhere certainly must be a priority.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, mr frédéric daerden, and commissioner andor for this initiative to set up a european platform to combat poverty and social exclusion. in this context of crisis, we need more readability of our political actions, more mobilisation; we cannot leave this problem to the associations and ngos alone. we must mobilize and we certainly also need more efficiency - that is what we expect. the first point i would like to make this morning - and i am very happy about it - is that the food aid programme for the poorest of the poor allows us to face the campaigns of 2012 and 2013. the commissioner will be aware that we will be fully committed to the stability of this programme. the second point i would like to stress is that we must all mobilise to fight against unqualified departures. the fact that young people are left without qualifications in the training systems is certainly tantamount to leaving them to sink into social exclusion and poverty. for me, social integration is about occupational integration and training. finally, i would like to say that the fundamental tool is the european social fund. as rapporteur for this european social fund, i will be extremely involved in ensuring that it can converge in the fight against poverty. this european strategy to combat poverty must mobilise national action plans and solidarity, which is a founding value of europe.
madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for his report, and indeed the commissioner for his initiative. this report deals with the reality of life for many citizens, and indeed this is the response from parliament and it provides a coordinated roadmap for member states. one of the core aspects of this report is that we have equal rights and equal social protection for all workers. i fully support the initiatives on strengthening the social economy and the idea of a sensible minimum income, and also the implementation of the anti-discrimination directive. but i also agree with the sentiments of the rapporteur this morning when he says that dealing with debt and implementing austerity measures should not hit those who are already at risk of poverty. over the last few weeks, eu citizens will have listened to angela merkel, and others, when she says that europe is perhaps facing the toughest crisis since the second world war. she may be right, and her solution to this particular problem is to call for closer political ties and tighter budget rules. in purely economic terms, this may indeed be a possible solution and it might help to balance the books, but the reality for the 80 million people in the eu who are at risk of poverty is that balancing the books on its own is a totally inadequate response. it is no longer sufficient to say we will repair the workings of the current system, plug the holes and carry on as before. if our leaders want the support of their citizens for a new europe – and they will need that support – they need to implement much of what is in this report.
two of the problems with cohesion funding are the absorption of the funds and the curtailment of the funds. i would like to ask the commission how it hopes to deal with improving the capacity of member states to absorb the funds – i believe a large proportion may not be used in the current financial period – and particularly with helping local administrations put in good projects and to ensure their projects are utilised. on the other hand, we have the macro-conditionality which is supposed to come in, which says that payments are to stop if countries do not fulfil the stability pact. so you have two questions in one: one concerns utilisation and the other actually stopping the funds.
i would first of all like to thank commissioner hahn for a very clear answer. my second question is a supplementary in relation to the cap: 2014 has been earmarked as the reference year based on activity in 2011. i would like to know what the rationale behind that is. is the commissioner not concerned – because i know many farmers are – that it will distort the market, both in terms of the sale and purchase of land and the rent of land?
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo agus go háirithe na moltaí praiticiúla atá ann chun déileáil leis an dúshlán atá romhainn agus tá a lán dúshlán romhainn. in this regard, i recall that my colleague, danuta hübner, when she was a commissioner, pointed out that one-third of regions would decline in population by 2020 and a half will have a decline by 2030. this poses huge problems for us, particularly in relation to structural and cohesion policy. particularly worrying is the impact which an ageing population will have. it will put huge pressure on finances in terms of healthcare and infrastructure, etc. we have got to meet that challenge, and the sooner we face up to it and put measures in place and utilise cohesion funding for it, the better it will be.
madam president, i abstained on this report as it does not go anywhere near tackling the dictatorship of the markets that exists in our society. the extent of that dictatorship has been seen very clearly in the past week, which has been reminiscent of europe’s colonial era. the same arguments have been used to impose technocratic governance on italy and greece, with the argument that the people are not capable of governing for themselves, with the same result that the basic democratic right of people to elect their government comes second to the needs of the market, second to the needs of the bankers, second to the profits of the elite in our society. these technocrats who have been appointed are not neutral between the 1% and the 99%. until the weekend, mr mario monti served as an adviser to goldman sachs. mr papademos has spelt out how the interests of the bankers must be protected in writing down greek debt. their mandate comes not from the people of italy or greece or the rest of europe, but comes from the markets. it is a mandate to continue the savagery of people’s living standards in the interests of the elite. above all, what is needed again is a european-wide fightback, the need for a european-wide struggle against austerity and against the rule of these elites. what is needed is a european-wide strike.
a uachtaráin, an taibhreamh a bhí ag ár mbunaitheoirí maidir leis an gcomhaontas eorpach ná go mbeadh gluaiseacht shaor, éasca agus oifigiúil ag earraí agus ag daoine trasna na heorpa chun teorainn agus is maith an taibhreamh é agus tá a lán déanta chun é sin a chur i bhfeidhm. today’s proposals go further, particularly in trying to get qualifications mutually recognised right across the european union but, as speakers have pointed out, there are difficulties, particularly regarding qualifications where the person with the qualification is dealing with the public and services, such as medical services, teaching, etc. language proficiency is very important and certainly there is no room for error here, particularly in the diagnosis of patients, as has been pointed out. my second point is that we should also have some effective method of ensuring that the contents of the programmes that lead to qualification are of the same standard across the european union.
madam president, one of the noticeable changes in my country in recent years is the closure of so many public houses and the opening of betting shops. side by side with that has been the growth of online betting particularly, as many people have pointed out, amongst young people. it is a worrying trend and it is one that needs to be contained. you also have the possibility – indeed the probability – of illegal online gambling which is used to launder money, etc. so there is definitely a need for tighter regulation for a number of reasons: firstly, so that those who are providing the activity, particularly sports bodies, can get something back in return; secondly, as has been pointed out, to deal with addiction, rather than leave it to member states on their own; and thirdly, of course, to control it so that it is legal and not illegal. all those matters are important. cross-border mutual state cooperation is very important.
madam president, this report comes at a time when poverty is returning on a mass scale to haunt europe. there are 116 million people in the eu at risk of poverty. youth unemployment rates now stand at over 40% in greece and spain, in ireland it stands at over 29%, and because of the driving down of wages and conditions, even those with a job are not immune from the risk of poverty, with 22% of those still at risk of poverty. the fact that this report was passed by a large majority brings to mind the quote from shakespeare, ‘words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart’. this is precisely the same parliament that has voted in favour of the likes of economic governance, in support of savage austerity dressed up as so-called fiscal consolidation: the same policies of savage attacks on people’s living standards, savage attacks on public services that have resulted in more people being at risk of poverty and social exclusion. if we are serious about tackling poverty, it means putting an end to austerity, it means tackling the power of the 1% in society – the speculators, the banks, the big corporations like the energy companies that will profit this winter while thousands die of fuel poverty. it means tackling that power, taking wealth and power out of those hands and using it instead to invest and to create jobs and public services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which provides legal certainty in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this represents an improved regime relating to the liability of shipping carriers and the compensation of passengers carried by sea. in particular, it obliges carriers to take out insurance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that consents to accession of the european union to the protocol of 2002 to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974, with the exception of articles 10 and 11 thereof.
in writing. − air services between the european union and jordan presently operate on the basis of bilateral agreements between individual member states and jordan. the commission recently negotiated a comprehensive agreement that is much more ambitious in its scope and replaces all of the bilateral agreements by creating a euro-mediterranean aviation area between the eu and jordan. the agreement establishes uniform standards for air carriers in all 27 member states and allows them to benefit regardless of their national affiliation. accordingly, eu-based air carriers will be able to operate services between any location in the eu and jordan, something that was until now conditional upon, among other things, the existence of a bilateral agreement between the member state concerned and jordan. i support this report.
in writing. − i welcome the work that has been done on this report. it is essential that we have our house in order when it comes to replacing the bilateral agreements with these new eu-wide agreements. the report will ensure that we avoid discrimination between eu air carriers; the traditional designation clauses, referring to air carriers of the member state party to the bilateral agreement, are to be replaced by an eu designation clause, referring to all eu carriers. this is a more transparent and open system, and is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i supported this agreement, which is an international one establishing relations in the field of aviation between the eu and its 27 member states and georgia. its purpose is the establishment of an eu/georgia common aviation area. the existing bilateral agreements on air traffic services are to be superseded by the new agreement which is being concluded as part of the eu neighbourhood policy, one of the aims of which is to establish a common aviation area between the eu and its neighbours. the agreement is being applied provisionally pending its entry into force.
in writing. − i supported this report that seeks to strengthen the competitive position of the local economic operators and stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the european union.
in writing. − i welcome the recommendations to the commission on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law contained in this own initiative report.
in writing. − europe’s population is ageing – it has the oldest population and the lowest population growth rate in the world. for this reason, demographic developments must be studied at regional level in particular, where very different developments become apparent. this report, that i support, calls on the commission to include demographic change as one of the thematic priorities of the future cohesion policy, as the structural funds must be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change. the report also encourages member states and regions to pay greater heed to the issue as a horizontal priority in their operational programmes than heretofore.
in writing. − in the context of the financial crisis, it is important that measures are taken to supervise and restrict short selling in some or all securities, as such practices can contribute to a downward spiral in share prices and financial instability. i welcome the calls in this text for the harmonisation relating to short selling and the powers that regulators may use in exceptional situations across the eu. i support recital 20 whereby the competent authorities of member states could temporarily suspend such restrictions where it is believed that these restrictions are having a negative impact on the functioning of the sovereign credit default swap market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the commission’s proposal aimed at updating, simplifying, and consolidating the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops in line with current user and market requirements. it is important that measures are taken to reduce administrative burdens in the collection and processing of harmonised european statistics on permanent crops.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the implementation of the professional qualifications directive. at a time when half of our youth show a willingness to look for work opportunities abroad, it is crucial that we simplify and eliminate disproportionate rules, as well as needless, invisible barriers to the realisation of their right to work in another eu member state. we need to do so without undermining the confidence of the public and professionals. as a former midwife, i am acquainted with the challenges and risks inherent in areas where health and safety are at stake. indeed, healthcare professionals are the most mobile, and the ability to communicate and safeguard patient safety have to be ensured. a key challenge lies in the recognition of academic titles and professional qualifications by shoring up confidence in the accreditation criteria. dialogue between public authorities and professionals has to be stepped up. the ects system needs more transparency and comparability. the high number of solvit cases relating to professional-qualification recognition issues shows that this area is more than a fundamental element of the internal market. it is a matter of rights that our citizens want to see fulfilled.
i scríbhinn. − os rud é go gcailltear 50% den bhia folláin inite le linn shlabhra an tsoláthair bhia, ní mór don choimisiún, do na ballstáit agus do na páirtithe leasmhara a n-iarrachtaí maidir le tomhaltóirí a chur ar an eolas faoi bhealaí níos éifeachtaí le bia a cheannach agus a úsáid a fheabhsú agus a mhéadú d’fhonn an diomailt bhia a chomhrac agus a chosc. chuige sin, fearaim fáilte faoin gcuid den tuarascáil seo a iarrann ar an gcoimisiún agus ar na ballstáit a thuilleadh a dhéanamh, ach is léir fós go bhfuil i bhfad níos mó le déanamh, go háirithe ó thaobh lipéadaithe de agus ní mór é seo a chur ar bharr an chláir oibre um thomhaltóirí. ní foláir a thuilleadh eolais agus oideachais maidir le lipéadú ceart fáisnéiseach, dátaí deiridh agus módhanna cearta stórála a chur ar fáil ag gach uile céim de shlabhra an tsoláthair bhia chun gearradh siar ar an diomailt bhia. ní mór go mbeadh láneolas soiléir ar bhia ar fáil do thomhaltóirí ionas go féidir leo roghanna eolasacha maithe a dhéanamh.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that welcomes the ambitious approach set out by the commission in the upcoming launch of its green paper, which will set a basis for discussions for consumer rights organisations, citizens, national parliaments and governments and the publishing of a consumers agenda by may 2012.
in writing. − out of 14 823 active gambling sites in europe, more than 85% are operated without any licence; strict legislation should therefore be introduced to regulate online gambling. i support this report and welcome its recognition that gambling can potentially harm, and that online gambling may involve greater risks such as addiction, fraud, scams and under-age gambling. i welcome the calls for the promotion of responsible gambling and the protection of minors and vulnerable groups. i welcome the proposals for a new gambling bill in ireland, providing for the licensing of online services as part of a major reform of the gambling laws. although i voted against paragraph 20, i acknowledge and support the right of member states to draw on a wide variety of measures against illegal gambling, and i support measures to increase the efficiency of the fight against illegal online gambling. however, since there is no european legislative act regulating online gambling, the amendment could be seen as counter to the principle of subsidiarity as well as the principles of the single market, since it implies that an online gambling undertaking in one member state may have to close if its activities are illegal in another member state.
i scríbhinn. − os rud é go bhfuil na beacha agus an pailniú an-tábhachtach don earnáil talmhaíochta eorpach, le beagnach 84% de speiceas planda agus 76% de tháirgeadh bia na heorpa ag brath ar an bpailniú a dhéanann na beacha, ní mór go gcuirfí straitéis éifeachtach comhordaithe i bhfeidhm chun stop a chur le rátaí arda báis i measc na mbeach. tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le hiarraidh ar an gcoimisiún eorpach an mhonatóireacht atá á déanamh ar shláinte ainmhí i dtriú tíortha a fheabhsú agus a leathnú agus caighdeáin fhíorarda sláinte a chur i bhfeidhm i gcás allmhairí chun a chinntiú nach scaiptear galar beiche coimhthíoch ar bith sa chóras timpeallachta eorpach. aontaím leis an rapóirtéir sa mhéid is go mba chóir don ae a thuilleadh taighde a dhéanamh ar chóracha leighis nua chun cosc a chur ar bhás luath beiche agus chun a thuilleadh tacaíochta a thabhairt do shaotharlanna diagnóiseacha agus trialacha allamuigh ar an leibhéal náisiúnta.
in writing. − i welcome the report in particular the call on the commission to increase the level of support for honeybee-health related research under the next financial framework. the report also clearly states that the impact of increased mortality among honeybees and wild pollinators on agriculture, food production and biodiversity would be extremely negative if left unchecked. i support the call to member states to consider making beekeeping and bee health part of agricultural training. there is a real need for consultation with beekeepers by european and national authorities before any apiculture programmes are drawn up and in particular before any legislative proposals are put in place. finally, given the systemic importance of apiculture to european farming i fully support the call on the commission to provide significantly more financial resources to this sector.
in writing. − the issue of honeybee health is one which is also crucial to the human race, and it something we must continue to keep on the political agenda.
in writing. − the beekeeping industry provides income for more than 600 000 european union citizens and its economic value in the eu is estimated to be worth €15 billion annually. the industry offers vital services for agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity and it is, therefore, important that sustainable agricultural practices should be at the heart of the reformed common agricultural policy. i welcome the calls in this report for a harmonized surveillance system of the beekeeping sector across the member states and the calls by the commission to include bee health in the eu veterinary policy under the ‘animal health law’ to be introduced in early 2012. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − given the importance of honeybees for the maintenance of biodiversity, the implications of colony collapse disorder are significant, and we must act now to prevent this. farming activity can have an impact on bee colonies, especially if it leads to food shortages for bees, poor food resources or to inappropriate pesticide applications. these can contribute to the weakening of bee colonies which may then become more vulnerable to pests and diseases. we should also ensure that there is well coordinated communication between beekeepers and farmers to minimise the potential impact of farming activity on bees. we must have more harmonised data on disease incidence and colony losses throughout europe, not just among domesticated honeybees, but also among wild bee colonies. local apiculture organisations, like the federation of irish beekeeping associations in ireland, can have a role to play in relation to the collection of harmonised data and must be involved in whatever actions we decide to take. beekeepers themselves are primarily responsible for the health of their bees and we must look at providing quality training programmes in order to develop and maintain a healthy bee population in the eu.
in writing. − i support the report because i believe the european parliament must deliver a strong, coherent message to its citizens on the issue of poverty and social exclusion. the proposals in the report will go some way towards addressing the situation of the 80 million european citizens at risk of poverty and are in some way a counterbalance to the endless proposals on austerity that are being implemented throughout the eu.
in writing. − currently, 116 million people are said to be at risk of poverty in the eu. the commission’s proposal, as part of the europe 2020 strategy, to take 20 million people out of poverty by 2020 is welcomed in this report. i welcome that objective and encourage an integrated response across the member states, particularly in these difficult economic times.
in writing. − i think this report highlights and explains the need for more detailed and more specific information and statistics on social inclusion. more detailed information is needed if programmes such as the convergence objective of eu structural funding are to achieve their stated aim of helping the least developed member states and regions close the gap between them and their neighbours. it is important to remember that these programmes are supposed to improve the lives of the people who live in these regions. in this regard greater information would lead to a more targeted approach to solving problems of poverty and social exclusion. broad, one-size-fits-all approaches, are inappropriate when dealing with regionalised and localised problems of unemployment, globalisation, lack of education and inequality. in the case of social fund allocations and european structural fund allocations it is important that decisions about whether or not an area belongs in the convergence objective category or the regional competitiveness and employment category or the territorial cooperation category are taken on as local a basis as possible.
mr president, earlier this week angela merkel said that the challenge facing europe is the toughest since the second world war. she is probably right. her solution to this particular problem is to call for closer political ties and tougher budget rules. in purely economic terms, this may be a possible solution in that it will help to balance the books. mr president, you yourself spoke of deepening integration, of an enhanced six-pack, of economic governance, and of completing the single market. however, commissioner, for many citizens, that is simply not enough. balancing the books on its own is not an adequate response. it cannot be just about economics because, if it is, then it will not be possible to win the confidence of the citizens you spoke of. and we need to win that confidence. we need that support so that citizens can see that the eu is working for them, not just to satisfy the markets or recapitalise the banks. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i have real concerns that we are not addressing the social and employment areas adequately. this morning we had a debate on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, looking at how the commission, the parliament and the member states can take concrete actions to assist the 80 million europeans that are at risk of poverty. and commissioner, those numbers are growing. our work programme must ensure that inclusive growth and employment-generating projects are at its core. that message needs to be delivered loud and clear to citizens. europe will succeed if its citizens are confident that they are its real concern. it is not enough that that message is implicit. it must be explicit. we need to articulate a vision for europe that citizens can believe in – balance the economic with the social, and i think then we might just get their attention.
mr president, the imf has said that if there were a global growth pact to increase consumer spending in asia and infrastructure spending in the west, the world economy would grow much faster and 25 to 50 million jobs could be created. the former british prime minister, gordon brown, writing in the irish examiner today, says that even in the last two months of his g-20 presidency, french president nicholas sarkozy should push for coordinated action and no leaders should be pushing harder for such an agreement than those of europe. could i ask the european commission to indicate to this house exactly where this imf proposal, this imf argument, this imf view stands? do we not really need to think in these terms if we are to do what we really need to do, which is to get people back to work and to take on this recession head-on?
mr president, i think it should trouble this house that the only round of applause from our citizens – i think the group have left the chamber – was when a uk colleague, who equally has left the house, belittled the european union and the work it has done to date. populist messages sell and i am afraid that i would echo the words of president von rompuy when he said that ‘time is the cement of politics’. but it seems that time is something that is in short supply. on the specifics of the work programme, i think we do need to look at legislation and implementation. we have had failure to implement which has led us to this crisis because we have turned a blind eye in the past, particularly on the economic issues. but for example this morning, colleagues met with commissioner dalli on a small issue of electronic identification of sheep – legislation that we passed which we now believe to be defective and needs to be changed. in these matters we need to react more swiftly.
madam president, i think the european union has been a world leader in many areas, maybe without getting the credit for it. certainly in relation to development aid, and in climate change, we are second to none. therefore, as we approach the conference in durban, it is important that we should discuss these issues here. but we also need to change our tactics. it is not good enough any more for the european union to say we are going to go this far and we hope you will follow us. i think, in the present economic situation, particularly if countries that are competitors of ours, like russia, canada, the usa, china, etc., are not willing to come along the road with us, we should say we are not going to go as far as we said either. we should concentrate on areas where there is an advantage to us, particularly in energy efficiency, ets, as has been mentioned, and so forth, and not ensure that we go into poverty while they become richer and richer and the world falls apart.
a uachtaráin, táim ag labhairt in ionad mo chomhghleacaí gay mitchell, fear a rinne a lán oibre ar son an tríú domhan agus a fuair ceann de na gradaim 'feisire na bliana' anuraidh ar son na hoibre sin agus é tuilte go maith aige. the fact that the european union is the world’s biggest donor – contributing half of what the world is contributing – is something we should be very proud of, and which is indeed admirable. certainly, it is something that we should put before other countries so that they can try to emulate what we are doing. particularly when you consider that part of our 2020 strategy is to lift millions of people within europe out of the poverty trap, the fact that at the same time we continue to help the poorest of the poor in the world is something we can be very proud of. i know in my own country that we are very pleased with our contributions, both in terms of personnel who go to the third world – long-term missionaries and other people for the short-term – and of giving to charitable causes, and with our commitment, like other countries, to meeting the 0.7% of gdp. i have just two questions. firstly, i would ask the commission whether it considers that there are too many ngos. if we had an amalgamation of ngos, would we not save a lot in administration and have a better focus? secondly, at what stage do we say that an emerging country can take care of itself and does not need help from us so we may give it to poorer countries?
mr president, first of all can i make just three points? is it good governance that states and multinational institutions dance to the tune of powerful unelected wealthy secret figures? the role of rating agencies, with a precarious history of triple-a rating products, including subprime property, comes to mind. so-called free markets appear to be open to manipulation by powerful interests that can even target countries in the eurozone and beyond: we have seen sterling in the past, and we may see the yen in the future. it is right that countries should behave responsibility and ethically, but it is also right that public service institutions serve the public interest and equip themselves to address manipulation and reckless greed. i invite the president of the commission to reflect on this matter. in the time available let me make two other points. first of all, i support what president barroso said in relation to intergovernmentalism. i come from a small member state; we suffer most when intergovernmentalism is at its best. when things are set down in the treaties it is best for small member states, it is best indeed for the union, because we are not then at the whim of a particular leader in a particular member state. the third point i want to make is in relation to growth, and a point made recently by the former british prime minister gordon brown. he said that the imf has said that, if there were a global growth pact to increase consumer spending in asia and infrastructure spending in the west, the world economy would grow much faster, and 25 to 50 million jobs would be created. he then asked, in relation to the good governance of europe, who in europe had the capacity to deal with this. the answer is: none of the presidents here present. apparently the real power to do this lies with the president of the french republic, who happens be in the chairmanship of the g22. but we need to start thinking in terms of what the imf has said: we are too small in our thinking, we need to be bigger in our thinking in relation to growth.
in writing. – with a strengthening of action comes a strengthening of credibility. it is clear to all that we need a community-wide approach if we are to see stability again in europe. the economic crisis is our common problem and it will only be resolved through common action based on a collection of democratic institutions, rather than a small coterie of eu leaders. the european parliament is the representation of european citizens and the guarantor of democratic legitimacy. meps must be given more say in the resolution of the financial crisis, particularly in light of the unsuccessful resolutions put forward by a small group of national leaders. the european parliament is already taking action on speculation. this week in strasbourg, meps voted to ban the short-selling of bonds in the financial markets, which is the first in a number of important steps needed to temper the markets, restore demand and create sustainable jobs. we have tried the european council route to stabilise the euro, and it has proved unsuccessful. the focus must now be to utilise the eu’s other democratic arm for fiscal reform – only in this way can we ensure support for our plans by european citizens.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus tá áthas orm go bhfuil glacadh leis le móramh mór anseo inniu. tá buntáistí ag baint leis gan dabht ar bith go háirithe chun an tionscnamh turasóireachta a chothú agus freisin chun suim agus tuiscint a chothú i measc na ndaoine óga go háirithe i stair na heorpa. i think this label first of all is different to the world heritage unesco label and is pretty distinctive; it is not based on beauty or architectural value, but on the history and the contribution of a particular site to creating the history of europe and i think that is a good idea. i think no harm can come from it; the scheme which would be reviewed every two years is a good idea; thirteen people in the committee; a million euro maximum as a budget. i think that if it promotes tourism and promotes understanding, then it is all very well. i am sorry that my own country is not taking part because there are a number of sites which could contribute: the irish college in leuven, the irish college in paris, kinsale town, the blasket islands, etc.
mr president, i would not go down the road of the glass bowl for the moment, but you personally are absolved from all blame. thank you for your forbearance and for your explanation.
mr president, i voted against the recast of the railway directive because it is very clear that, despite the promises of the neo-liberal doctrinaires in this house and elsewhere, the railway directive will remain the ugly duckling that it is and will never become a swan. it continues on the course, which is already failing across europe, of chopping up our public transport systems into bite-size pieces for the private sector to gobble up. the result is clear right across europe, where you have services being cut back, leaving communities completely isolated, you have a lack of investment in maintenance that has caused an increase in delays, an increase in down-time and, most worryingly, an increase in accidents, including fatal accidents. you also have railway workers suffering under the burden of a massive increase of working pressure and of massive attacks on their working conditions and trade union rights. developing our railway services means pushing back the private sector, it means pushing the private sector out of our vital public transport services, it means renationalisation of those parts that have been privatised so far. it is on that basis – together with massive investment by the public sector, together with democratic control by the railway workers and users – that you could develop a railway system that is user friendly, environmentally sustainable, reliable and safe.
mr president, in 1949 in an article entitled ‘why socialism?’ albert einstein wrote: ‘we shall require a substantially new manner of thinking if mankind is to survive’. the relevance of that idea today hits home when you look at the dire consequences of climate change and the threat to the future of our planet and humanity that it poses. then you look at the response of the capitalist establishment and the political leaders around the world and you have no new thinking, no sense of urgency. the world’s 21 developed economies and the european commission publicly announced pledges of usd 28 billion in fast-track money after copenhagen. only usd 12 billion have so far been budgeted for, and as little as 30% has been delivered. if we are serious about tackling climate change, empty pledges are simply not good enough. we need a massive increase in internationally coordinated, patent-free, cooperative research and development into combating climate change. fundamentally, we need a new way of thinking about how we run our society and our economic system. capitalism is a system. it is built on wastage and short-term profit. a so-called green economy built on the same logic of profit and competition will not solve climate change. we need socialist transformation of society. we need the massive resources that exist on our planet to be democratically planned in the interests of the majority and to protect our environment.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an airgead seo chun athoiliúint a chur ar fáil dóibh siúd atá dífhostaithe de bharr na géarchéime eacnamaíochta. caithfimid breathnú áfach ar struchtúr na scéime seo, mar níl sé sách solúbtha faoi láthair.
in writing. − i welcome the decision by the european globalisation adjustment fund to allocate eur 12 689 838 to ireland in assisting this case concerning 4 866 redundancies in the construction sector. one of the major challenges facing the construction industry nowadays is the need to diversify and develop new skill sets. this fund, designed to assist with retraining and back to work programmes, will be a welcome step in the right direction for the workers directly affected by the financial crisis.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an airgead seo chun athoiliúint a chur ar fáil dóibh siúd atá dífhostaithe de bharr na géarchéime eacnamaíochta. caithfimid breathnú áfach ar struchtúr na scéime seo, mar níl sé sách solúbtha faoi láthair.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund in the sum of eur 1 387 819 to the specialised construction industry. these funds will provide much-needed assistance to those made redundant in this sector as a result of the global economic crisis.
in writing. − i am delighted that the european parliament today cleared the payment of this money, which will assist almost 6 000 construction workers who have lost jobs in the wake of the irish banking crisis. our economic collapse had a particularly dramatic affect on the construction sector as the previous government had adopted an unsustainable development model. roughly half the jobs in the construction sector between 2007 and 2010 were lost, so this money is a critical lifeline to those workers, renewing their hopes of finding employment again. this funding can be used for retraining and upskilling, occupational guidance or support for self-employment and enterprise creation. this can also include support to part-time students or apprentices. together with the share contributed by the irish government, the funding for construction workers adds up to eur 55 million and is also a welcome development in that it mobilises resources to assist workers from small and medium-size companies. i believe our government will keep in mind the mediocre management of egf monies by the previous administration, and manage the programmes in a timely fashion, so as to get the best value for the money and avoid loss of funding due to missed deadlines.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an airgead seo chun athoiliúint a chur ar fáil dóibh siúd atá dífhostaithe de bharr na géarchéime eacnamaíochta. caithfimid breathnú áfach ar struchtúr na scéime seo, mar níl sé sách solúbtha faoi láthair.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, by which the european globalisation adjustment fund has allocated substantial support, some eur 21 664 148, to ireland. i welcome this decision to allocate funds to support irish workers in the sectors of architectural and engineering activities and technical testing and analysis made redundant as a direct result of the global financial crisis. this fund, designed to assist with retraining and back to work programmes, will be a welcome step in the right direction for redundant workers looking to diversify and develop new skill sets.
in writing. − this report refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 643 770 from the european globalisation fund for austria. it concerns assistance to retrain and up skill workers made redundant in the ‘land transport and transport via pipelines’ sector. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i support the allocation of the globalisation adjustment fund to workers in el/aldi hellas/greece. this is the first application from greece and it is very important that greek workers can access the fund. the globalisation adjustment fund was designed as a solidarity instrument and during extremely difficult times in greece, this is a small sign that the eu is delivering on its message of solidarity.
in writing. − i welcome the egf, but stress the need for a more flexible approach for its administration into the future.
in writing. − this report, the eighteenth such application to be examined under the 2011 european globalisation fund budget, refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 918 500 for greece. it concerns 642 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in two enterprises in the retail sector (‘supermarket and supplier’). i voted in favour of the positive decision in respect of this application.
in writing. − i welcome the overwhelming approval today by the european parliament to approve the allocation of eur 55 million of eu globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aid for the retraining of construction industry workers in ireland. the three irish north west meps initially approached the irish government with the proposal to seek funding from europe. i am very pleased that our efforts have borne fruit and that this funding will now be available to retrain and up skill construction industry workers adversely affected by the slump in their sector. it is an imperative that every effort is made to ensure that the best possible opportunities are identified to equip workers for future employment opportunities. the three applications on behalf of 5,987 irish construction industry workers will total eur 55 million, of which the eu will provide eur 35 million and ireland eur 20 million. the package of measures will include training programmes and training allowances, 2nd and 3rd level education programmes and supports, and redundant apprentices training programmes and supports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and commend the work of the joint parliamentary assembly in 2010 in continuing to provide a framework for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp countries.
in writing. − i commend this report from mr. kaczmarek. i wish to speak on two elements which concern the africa caribbean pacific-european union joint parliamentary assembly. first, i endorse the call for a greater role for the national parliaments of african, caribbean and pacific countries, in the scrutiny and implementation of programmes such as the european development fund and the country and regional strategy papers. i would also call on the commission to ensure that such an oversight role is formally recognised and protected in both the negotiation and execution of future acp-eu jpa plans. secondly, i support the call for eu and acp countries to promote participation and dialogue on issues concerning gender violence and human trafficking. frank and honest discussion of experiences common to countries in both the north and south of the globe, will undoubtedly highlight the ever-present danger of sexual crimes in both parts of the world.
in writing. − i fully support the introduction of the european heritage label and the important role it can play in the promotion of tourism in munster. according to statistics published by failte ireland, more than 3 million overseas visitors engaged with cultural and historic sites during the course of their visit in 2009. an estimated 45% of these visitors came from mainland europe. however, despite these numbers, the irish hospitality industry has been substantially weakened by the economic crisis, with 40% of hotels reporting a drop in staffing levels in the quarterly barometer published in june 2011. i would argue that the european heritage label would not only encourage a greater number of visitors from europe, but would also incentivise these visitors to go off the beaten tourist trail. i can think of a number of examples, in my own area, of sites which could potentially qualify for such a designation. the rock of cashel, in county tipperary, with its rich history as a european centre for religious and monastic education in the 10th and 11th centuries seems to me to be a perfect example of one such heritage site. it is said that, after graduation from this school, these clerics were sent all over mainland europe to places such as regensburg in germany.
in writing. − this report is the first step towards ensuring a more sustainable transport network, with regard to european railways.
in writing. − opening europe's railways to increased competition could provide consumers with more and better rail services. i voted in favour of this report but stress the importance of safety, which must remain at the heart of any future proposals.
in writing. − the upcoming un conference in durban has to achieve a comprehensive, international, fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement aimed at reducing co2 emissions and climate change. the aim should be a binding post-kyoto agreement for the period after 2012, and the eu must devise a comprehensive strategy that brings on board other ‘big countries’. the resolution calls for the transformation of the world economy to be based on sustainable growth. the fight against climate change is not about bashing industry, but a unique opportunity to actively promote structural change leading to a green economy. as europeans, we need to put more effort into this to avoid being left behind. i supported this resolution.
in writing. − according to scientific consensus, average global temperatures are rising by between three and six degrees celsius. this is well above the ‘safe limit’ of a two degrees rise, above which life as we know it is most likely unsustainable on earth. it is essential that the eu continue to take action to combat this. more political courage is needed to combat the environmental consequences of this and to prevent the economic costs of climate change. the kyoto agreement took years to agree and should not be abandoned on a whim. the eu must tackle this issue head on. we must have a fair agreement, one which respects the spirit of the kyoto protocol and guarantees the potential for growth and development for all while at the same time protecting and maintaining the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the commission’s communication on the eu accountability report 2011 on financing for development as an extremely useful exercise in transparency and peer review. while fully recognising the financial crisis and the increasing pressure on national budgets, i believe that achieving the poverty eradication goal will require, above all, policy change in industrialised and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty.
madam president, i have listened to the debate very closely and it is certainly very important to have a close relationship between the us and the european union. as a member of the eu-us delegation, i am pleased to be involved, partially at least, in that whole area and looking forward to a visit to jacksonville in a couple of weeks. however, one of the downsides in democracy is the fact that people have to be re-elected. as somebody said recently in regard to europe, we know what to do but the problem is that, if we do it, we will not be re-elected. that will probably come into play, particularly with the american presidential election now upcoming. nevertheless, we have to grasp the opportunity to deal with matters that can be of use to people when they are going to be re-elected, and particularly in relation to job creation and the issues of climate change and security. i think they are the areas that we need to focus on in particular at this summit. it is also a great opportunity to give status and recognition to new instruments, president van rompuy in particular.
in writing. – gender mainstreaming is a very important issue and in order for the parliament to be taken seriously in this regard we need to ensure that we practise what we preach. the parliament must truly reflect the needs, aspirations and experiences of all society. gender mainstreaming is firmly established in article 8 of the lisbon treaty and i welcome this report as a first step towards the mainstreaming of the institutions.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith buíochas a ghabháil leat as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom ar an ábhar fíorthábhachtach seo, is é sin forbairt beartais mhuirí chomhtháite an aontais eorpaigh agus comhghairdeachas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir. ireland is one of the true maritime nations of the european union. we possess ten times more territory offshore than on land. we must capitalise on our vast marine resource so as to create, and of course to maintain, sustainable economic growth and jobs for coastal communities in the near future. the maritime institute, which was visited by commissioner damanaki and her irish colleague, based in my euro-constituency in galway is to the forefront in developing new possibilities through different initiatives with economic sectors as diverse as ict, food biotechnology, shipping, financial services, ocean energy and new research into deep-sea species. the development of killybegs in my own county as a renewable energy services hub, the regional plan for the shannon estuary and the westwave project are concrete examples of new initiatives being developed off the irish coastline at present. the launch of the integrated strategy for the atlantic area, which will take place in lisbon on 28 november, is an important development. i strongly believe and support a coordinated strategy for the atlantic area from the north of scotland, through ireland, through france, through spain and portugal. i believe all of that will result in economic benefits for coastal communities located along the atlantic arc. i want to give an example of how we can regenerate. i believe that regeneration of the infrastructural facilities in many small coastal ports and islands along this arc, including my own country, would result in tangible benefits. i am thinking in particular of the ports that have suffered as a result of the decline in fish landings. we have an obligation to assist these people and their ports. i believe that a small investment via the fisheries fund – or indeed the cohesion fund or through this eur 40 million – could provide water-based facilities such as marinas and will provide better facilities for tourists and leisure crafts. this is not necessarily a new concept. if we look at the common agricultural policy, there is an envelope of funding within that for rural development. i want to highlight one sentence from the commissioner’s statement today. she wants to help coastal communities to extend their economies and i welcome that statement.
a uachtaráin, aontaím go hiomlán leis an méid atá ráite ag mo chomhghleacaí, pat the cope gallagher, ó thaobh thábhacht na hiascaireachta do na réigiúin iargúlta. amanna, níl ann ach an iascaireacht ó thaobh tionsclaíochta, ó thaobh fostaíochta agus mar sin de. fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo ós rud é go bhfuil sé ag tarraingt na gnéithe áirithe den tionscal le chéile. the big breakthrough, president, in terms of fishery policy was the green paper for an integrated maritime policy published on 7 june 2006, because up until then what we had were sectoral interests: fishing on the one hand, as against environmental considerations on the other. we have to recognise that what we need is a coherent approach; an integrated approach. what we need, on the one hand, is to see that fisheries are in remote areas very often the only sustainable economic activity while, on the other hand, we have to preserve them. that is why i particularly welcome this report and i congratulate the rapporteur. fisheries and aquaculture have their specific requirements and characteristics in terms of use of the maritime environment and the preservation of the conditions for the recovery and growth of fish stocks. this necessitates research, which is what this is all about: coming up with research, coming up with data, coming up with specifics so we can underpin fishery policy for the future. from the point of view of the eu, the eu is a world power in fisheries and is the biggest market in the world as regards processed products using fish as a raw material. what we need to do is to ensure the sustainability and profitability of fishing – which is, after all, humanity’s oldest maritime activity. as a product of high nutritional value, fish is today – as always – a fundamental component of the european diet. particularly at a time when we are talking about food sustainability and the availability of food, let us move forward. i think today is a very good day, so well done commissioner, well done rapporteur, and thank you.
mr president, it is difficult to estimate the extent of iuu fishing. it has a direct economic impact on countries, especially developing countries, and these countries are losing the value of the catches that could be taken by local fishermen if iuu fishing was not taking place. this fishing is facilitated by a lack of access to information about vessel names and the identity of their owners. we must ensure member states fully enforce rules obliging ships to carry this information. of equal concern is the role of organised crime in iuu fishing. criminal organisations have been dipping their feet into the world of this criminal activity, and they have a strong economic incentive. many species of fish, particularly those that have been over-exploited, are in short supply and are therefore of high value. some of the more traditional criminal techniques are now being put to use to support iuu fishing; techniques such as human trafficking, slave labour, tax evasion, money laundering, customs fraud, corruption and handling of stolen goods, etc.
a uachtaráin, luíonn sé le réasún go mbeadh comhoibriú go háirithe idir tíortha an domhain maidir le ceisteanna móra an lae inniu agus go háirithe iad siúd a bhaineann leis an bhfarraige. dá bhrí sin, bhí áthas orm gur cuireadh an tuarascáil seo ós ár gcomhair agus gur glacadh leis le tromlach mór. not only did we pass this proposal here today, but also we have put eur 50 million, which is not an insignificant sum, behind it. as the commissioner said here when we debated the matter this morning, it will help to ensure that some pilot projects which might have to end in midstream can now continue in this area, and that is important. there are major challenges regarding the sea. obviously, climate change is one and that will probably affect coastal areas and islands more than other areas. it is important that there should be an integrated approach to that. on the other end of the scale, we have the opportunity for renewable energies, and again it makes sense to have cooperation in that area.
(begining without microphone) of capitalism that exists in both europe and the usa. working people on both sides of the atlantic increasingly face the same issues: mass unemployment, attacks on workers’ wages and conditions, and drastic cutbacks in the public sector. in response to these attacks, the occupy movement, which started in wall street, has gained an echo right around the world. its key message is that the 99% must not pay for the greed and the speculation of the 1%. now you have occupations taking place in basically every european city, including throughout ireland. precisely because that movement challenges the rule of the 1%, the police have now brutally moved against occupations in the us, in zuccotti park and oakland. i salute the response of the movement in oakland where 20 000 people have demonstrated to defend their right to protest. they have not just demonstrated: teachers have come out of their workplaces, public sector workers have gone on sick leave, the ports have been shut down through workers’ action, and occupy oakland has launched a call for a general strike. here you can see the massive potential. if we can bring the occupy movement – the anger, the energy and the ideas – together with the power of the organised labour movement, society could be fundamentally transformed.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus go háirithe na gníomhartha atá ann. gan dabht ar bith, caithfimid gach rud a dhéanamh chun deireadh a chur le hiascaireacht mhídhleathach ar mhaithe le hacmhainní éisc sna haigéin a chaomhnú agus, go háirithe, chun cothrom na féinne a thabhairt do na hiascairí maithe macánta. illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries, iuu as they are called, at a conservative estimate make up 15% of the marine catches. throw in the practice of discards which has been going on for far too long and the rape of the sea has been going on unabated. thankfully, the forthcoming cfp is hoping to deal with the question of discards and today’s proposals may help to at least combat illegal fishing. the illegal operators will have to be named and shamed and put out of business, and non-compliant states equally so.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the international criminal court. in particular, i wish to speak on two elements. first, i call for greater cooperation between member states and the asset recovery office, and greater cooperation between member states and the camden asset recover inter-agency network. such practical collaboration would, in a similar vein to national asset recovery offices like the criminal assets bureau in ireland, prevent organised and sophisticated criminals getting access to the capital they need to implement their plans. this is all the more true in the context of individuals wishing to perpetrate crimes against humanity and war crimes. secondly, i call on member states to give further financial and practical assistance to the court, in order for it to carry out its mandate more effectively. in particular i would appeal for continued and enhanced support for programmes such as the icc trust for victims and the icc special fund for relocations. the former of these two programmes is invaluable in ensuring that court-ordered reparations are followed through on the ground, and also in coordinating donations given by third parties such as the european union for the rehabilitation of victims of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
in writing. − further research is needed in the maritime sector and eur 40 million would be a good start to develop a comprehensive strategy for europe.
in writing. − i support the calls in this text for the enhancement of the safety, performance, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness. ireland, though not a nuclear nation, likely derives some of its energy from nuclear sources through the uk/ireland interconnector. i support initiatives in respect of improved nuclear safety and in this report the calls for the enhancement of collaboration with iaea on safety standards applicable to all nuclear facilities and activities.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution ahead of the eu-us summit of 28 november 2011. the combined potential of the strengths of the transatlantic markets is self-evident. i believe that, together with the us, we have the ability to shape international regulatory regimes, to spur growth and to act as one of the engines of global recovery. exploiting the potential for such synergies means that we need to avoid resorting to protectionist measures and competing in an austerity drive with hopes of balancing budgets through exports to partners which are actually mirroring that same strategy. rather than falling prey to common weaknesses, the us and the eu need to engage in a transatlantic strategy for jobs and growth, to invest in sustainable infrastructure, while strengthening upstream regulatory cooperation to prevent needless obstacles to business across the atlantic.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the banning of cluster munitions. i wish to speak about two elements. first, i call on member states not to sign or ratify the draft text of protocol vi to the convention on prohibitions or restrictions on the use of certain conventional weapons. this protocol represents a substantial departure from, and watering down of, the protections contained in the convention itself in a number of important aspects, such as banning pre-1980 cluster munitions, and allowing states with such munitions with a failure rate of less than 1%. if the ban is weakened like this such crude munitions will undoubtedly endanger the lives of civilians in already dangerous parts of the world. secondly, i endorse the call for the commission to include, as a basic clause in all of its agreements with third part countries and in all of its external assistance programs, a ban on cluster munitions. such a strong statement of intent by the commission would without doubt further highlight the risks associated with cluster munitions and the reasons for their being banned.
in writing. − i firmly support the boosting of the digital agenda; however there are some aspects in this report that could have a significant budgetary impact on ireland. for this reason, i abstained in the vote on this motion for resolution.
in writing. − i voted to support this report as gender mainstreaming is a very important issue. i think that it is important that we focus on the overall purpose of the report, gender equality. the parliament needs to lead by example and must truly reflect the needs, aspirations and experiences of all society. gender mainstreaming is firmly established in article 8 of the lisbon treaty and this report is an essential first step towards the mainstreaming of the institutions. i welcome the endorsement of this report and look forward to further legislative measures on the subject.
in writing. − gender mainstreaming is important to assess the impact and different implications of policy action for women and men. it helps us to be sure that any proposed legislation will guarantee equality for women and men. it is important, not just in the context of legislation which is seen as being traditionally a “women’s issue” but in terms of all legislation. it helps ensure that women’s concerns are taken into account when legislation is being considered. in this regard, i would like to commend the work of the femm committee and their commitment to ensuring gender equality in all legislation passed by the european parliament. every effort must be made to improve women’s participation at all levels of politics and decision-making as this represents the most effective way of ensuring the mainstreaming of gender issues and concerns in future.
in writing. − i very much welcome this report in iuu fisheries, as highlighted in my intervention on the debate in plenary today. this is an issue which needs to be dealt with to protect our seas and ensure fish for the future.
in writing. − i fully support efforts to eliminate iuu fishing due to its negative impact on the environment and therefore support most of the contents of this report. however, i abstained due to paragraphs 12 and 13, which call for greater cooperation and harmonisation between european coastguards. this would include greater exchange of information and integrated surveillance. i see the need to have a monitoring and enforcement force on the seas and coast to combat illegal fishing and other undesirable practices such as pollution and piracy, but i oppose those paragraphs as the increased powers that this would give to coastguards would not just be used against these practices but also against the civil liberties and rights of others, in particular asylum seekers and immigrants. i therefore abstained in the vote on the report.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it is a real testament to the bravery of ordinary people in iran that, despite the massive oppression they are faced with, despite the executions, despite the torture, despite the jailings, there have still been mass popular movements of discontent over the past years in iran. recently there has been an upsurge in workers’ struggles, as workers have been fighting to form independent trade unions that can really represent their interests. massive strike waves amongst the teheran bus workers, in the sugar cane industry, amongst teachers, in the petrochemical complexes in bandar have all been met by brutal crackdowns by the regime, including the hanging of a teacher in the last year and the arrest of many many workers. however, the gross violations of human rights that are perpetrated by the dictatorship in iran, and this resolution that we will pass today in parliament, must not be used as a pretext by european leaders to engage in military action or support military action or to impose sanctions that will simply harm the people of iran. instead the trade union and workers’ movement must increase its efforts to highlight the abuses of human rights, the abuses of workers’ rights in iran, and to support the struggles of working people, young people, poor people, to achieve fundamental change within iran.
mr president, when it comes to iran one is inclined to despair; human rights and iran are as far a part as one end of the ocean is from the other. there are hundreds of examples, the nadarkhani case being the particular one we are highlighting today: a man arrested and in danger of being executed, possibly at any minute, for a charge called apostasy of religion. it seems that in iran the policy is one state, one religion. anybody who does not embrace islam is in danger of being executed or arrested or whatever at any particular time; whether they are male or female, young or old it does not seem to matter. iran is up there with china in terms of the number of executions per annum; around 300 and many of them actually taking place in secret. this is despite the fact that iran is party to international conventions and covenants which guarantee human rights. i think that it is time we took firmer action as an eu institution to highlight this and support the people of iran in their struggle.
mr president, egypt is a fine country; very attractive with a noble and indeed romantic history, but the activities of the military junta is not doing its reputation any favours. in particular, i think the treatment of coptic christians is not acceptable by any means, and i say that as a christian myself and as a member of the epp, which is the christian democrat party. certainly, we need to do more to stand up for christians and indeed everybody who is being persecuted in the name of religion around the world. the case of mr fatah is particularly important today and he is to be congratulated on his courage in not accepting a trial by the military junta, and of course he has been put in prison as a result. we have to support in every way we can the ‘no to military trials’ movement which is asking all egyptians not to cooperate with the military tribunals. in that way, we might move forward in the name of freedom, in the name of the people of egypt.
madam president, in these times of crisis, in the face of urgent market-led pressures, the agenda set by the leaders of europe seems to keep ignoring the root causes of the threat to the survival of our common currency. the major trigger was cataclysmic financial market failure in 2008, subsequently fuelled by deepening asymmetries between the centre of europe and its periphery. state-led intervention to rescue the banking system then precipitated a sovereign debt crisis made unsustainable by the current architecture of the euro. the reason why i often choose to reiterate this exercise of hindsight is the fact that it seems to be forgotten when our european leaders meet to resume their exercise in crisis management. instead the focus has been on dealing with sovereign debt as if it were the cause of our predicament rather than a dangerous symptom of a serious malady. the systemic nature of external trade disparities and current account imbalances when member states are bound by the same currency while at different stages of economic development has not proved self-correcting and it is in fact self-aggravating.
in writing. – i support this report which calls for increased parliamentary scrutiny in eurozone governance. the european parliament must play a key role in the new governance of the eurozone. the tightening of economic policy coordination and surveillance at european level must be based on the firm principles of democratic legitimacy and solidarity. the strengthening of the commission’s authority in controlling the coordination and surveillance of national budgets must be accompanied by a simultaneous strengthening of democratic control through the european parliament. currently the commission produces the ‘annual growth survey’ which is the document used as the basis for the european semester process. this process should be further legitimised by making it subject to the co-decision procedure with the european parliament before the spring summit. this change would mean the european parliament has real power to amend and negotiate with the council the content of the document on which the european semester is based. we should also reinforce the cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments with interparliamentary fora to coordinate policies on the european semester, including meetings of the broad european political groups before and after the annual spring economic council.
rapporteur. − mr president, the conciliation process has yielded some gains on some issues of concern for parliament. there had previously been numerous questions concerning the extent of powers given to the commission in implementing the programmes of the eu’s external financing instruments. i am happy to see that we have a situation where the european parliament and the council decide together on important strategic decisions. this is positive. i am fully aware that the negotiations have been extremely difficult and complex, in particular since the council has not been active and made not a single counter-proposal in the discussions. parliament was therefore forced to move and make concessions in the interests of beneficiary countries. many of my fellow members in the development committee, including the rapporteur, mr goerens himself, feel that the final result on the dci/bam regulation is not acceptable, neither in political nor in legal terms. i will return to that point in a moment. i would stress that the epp development committee members attach the highest importance to section 2 of the draft legislative resolution of the dci/bam regulation and, in particular, to its last sentence which ‘underlines that this result does not set a precedent for future negotiations on the post-2013 external financing instruments’. i sincerely hope that parliament demands respect for this condition in all future negotiations. if this clause is not respected, parliament will be renouncing scrutiny powers over important multi-billion geographical and thematic strategies. the fundamental issue is that democratic decision-making and control and respect for the lisbon treaty are the two most important principles in this regard, which is why i must strongly support the concerns expressed by mr goerens. i have to say – and i say this in your presence, mr vice-president – that it is time for the president of this parliament to call for an independent review of the role that the commission is supposed to play as honest broker in the conciliation process. it should not align itself with either institution and should ensure that the principles set out in the treaties, as approved by the people of europe, are upheld – as is its sworn duty. i have to say that i have some doubts that this is the case. we can say that we have made progress in relation to financing of the development programmes. thirty-six million children per day used to die. thankfully, that is down now to less than 21 million. much progress has been made, but by 2050 the population of the world will have increased by more than two billion people, 90% of whom will be born into what is now the developing world. we need to address this issue for altruistic reasons and for selfish reasons. if not, we will leave our children and our grandchildren a dreadful inheritance. we need to educate public opinion in europe, starting with our fellow european parliamentarians and national parliamentarians, about the importance of pursuing this issue. we need efficiency and coherent policy in relation to aid, but above all i would say that this efficiency, this effectiveness, this coherence, will only happen if there is transparency and accountability. this is not a residents’ association. this is the parliament of europe. we have not been shown the full respect we are entitled to by the commission in this regard, and it is not the first time. it took me two and a half years to negotiate the dci because of the same approach and attitude by the commission. if the commission of its own volition does not return to the spirit and the principles of the treaties, then the president of parliament must call it to account and ensure that it does. it is our duty to defend this institution against intrusion from whatever source.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all may i also thank our colleague mr vidal-quadras for his efforts in the conciliation process though there are concerns which remain. i realise that he did his very best to bring this agreement to the most successful conclusion he could in all of the circumstances. but i do want to say this: with the advent of the lisbon treaty, on which my country had not one but two referenda, we were told that there would be clear codecision powers between parliament and council in a variety of areas, one of which is in the development cooperation area, and i do not accept in this instance that this has been the case. anywhere where council is involved, parliament should be involved in relation to the legislative process. at no stage do i want to see parliament involved in micro-management: we have neither the skills nor the time nor the interest in doing that, but in the legislative process – post-lisbon in particular – it is our responsibility, it is our duty and it is our treaty-based power to do so. i believe that handsome is as handsome does – to use the phrase that i was taught as a young boy – that is, there is no point in telling us we are going to do this and that and then do something else. we know you by what you do. i say this to the commission: what you have been doing in relation to the respect for the mutual legislative powers of parliament and council leaves a lot to be desired. it is really sowing a lot of sourness, and there will be a time when you will come back to parliament and parliament may not be as accommodating as you may wish if you do not treat parliament with the basic respect that it is due. can i say in relation to the particular instrument for which i have responsibility, the financial instrument for development and cooperation, that it is clear that if we could get cohesion working properly a lot of lives could be saved – i think the commission’s own figure is 6 billion per year, perhaps the commissioner might indicate this.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl duit as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom maidir leis an cheist thábhachtach seo – an euro.– there is a great onus on the leaders of europe to act decisively so as to prevent the collapse of the euro. the consequence of the breakup of the euro for ordinary citizens, for cross-border trade, for commerce, is too horrendous to contemplate. many hardworking citizens throughout europe and in my own country are fearful and concerned for their savings built over many years. the global financial and banking system is built on trust. this involves the trust and the confidence of the markets, and more importantly of the ordinary people. eu leaders must restore and rebuild that trust by acting in a resolute fashion to ensure an immediate firewall that will protect the euro. the crisis is bigger than any country – or indeed the union – as was highlighted by today’s coordinated and welcome move by the us federal reserve, the ecb, the bank of japan and other central banks. of course i welcome the decision taken yesterday by euro zone finance ministers to approve a payment of eur 2.5 [billion] to ireland… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, last friday was the international day for the elimination of violence against women, and this week in ireland women’s aid is running its 16 days campaign which aims to raise awareness of the reality of domestic violence and to push for a positive change to increase women’s safety. every day in europe women are raped, beaten and trapped in their homes by their boyfriends, husbands and partners, with a higher rate of repeat victimisation than any other crime. one in five women in ireland will experience violence in their lives, but it is not just women who suffer as a result of this. it has a massive impact on children as well, with last year more than 1 600 incidents of child abuse being disclosed by callers to the national domestic violence helpline in ireland. i fear the situation will get worse as the recession bites and greatly reduces the options for women experiencing violence. with the closure of refuges and support services, women will have nowhere to go. i am heartened to see the commission is working with parliament and the council to combat gender-based violence and support vulnerable groups, but we must not let austerity undermine essential frontline services at home.
mr president, david cameron described today’s massive public sector strike as a damp squib. is it any wonder that this prime minister of a cabinet of millionaires that rules for the millionaires seeks to undermine this massive display of strength by working people – two million people on strike across northern ireland, scotland, wales and england – and a movement that demonstrates the power to defeat the government’s austerity policies? i visited picket lines across belfast today and attended the mass rally of 10 000 people. the message from the strikers was very, very clear. enough is enough. they will not pay more and work longer for reduced pensions. they will not accept further attacks on wages, further attacks on conditions and the further cutbacks in our public services that are driven by the government and the assembly. the outstanding socialist, james connolly, proclaimed ‘the great only appear great because we are on our knees. let us arise’. today, the working class has begun to stand up and the potential power is very clear. this has to be the start of building a movement that can win. that means naming a date for further public sector strike action and striving to spread action to the private sector.
member of the commission. − madam president, on the occasion of world aids day, i would like to congratulate the european parliament for its resolution on the eu response to hiv/aids which you will adopt later today. the commission fully shares your concern and your commitment to improving the lives of people living with hiv/aids in europe and beyond. the resolution is a strong and timely political signal underlining that, 30 years into the epidemic, hiv/aids still needs urgent attention. last year alone, 25 000 people got infected in the eu and more than 100 000 new cases were reported in the eastern neighbourhood. the commission is committed to working towards universal access to prevention, treatment and care to support achieving the millennium development goals targets by 2015. let me reassure you that fighting hiv/aids remains high on the commission’s agenda, following the adoption two years ago of our strategy and action plan on combating hiv/aids in the eu and neighbouring countries. since then, the commission has supported a number of initiatives in this field to help member states and stakeholders across europe through the health programme, the development programmes and bilateral agreements with third countries. indeed, evidence-based prevention, access to testing, treatment and care, and fighting discrimination are the core elements of our response to hiv/aids. the commission has also fostered mechanisms to coordinate hiv/aids policies and actions, such as the hiv/aids think tank and the civil society forum. two years on, the overall strategy and action plan to combat hiv/aids remains valid, and the commission will report on its implementation early next year. especially in times of economic difficulties, we must not lose sight of hiv/aids. the commission will continue to play its full and active role now and in the future. i take this opportunity to stress that hiv features prominently in the commission proposal for a new health programme which parliament will be debating soon.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, world aids day 2011 marks 30 years of the discovery of the first aids case in 1981. it is an opportunity for us to unite in the fight against hiv, to show our support for people living with hiv, and to commemorate those who have died. hiv/aids remains of major public health importance in europe. on behalf of the s&d group, i am calling for the eu to implement the strategy on combating hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries. we need stronger action to reduce new infections, over 25 000 of which were recorded in 2009. an estimated 30% of people with hiv/aids are unaware they carry the virus. therefore we need to increase hiv testing amongst most-at-risk populations, such as young people, homosexual men, injecting drug users, sex workers and prisoners. between 2007 and 2010, a new hiv testing programme in the us was carried out aimed at hard-to-reach groups and high-risk populations. testing took place in a range of settings: emergency departments, sti clinics, substance abuse clinics and community-based organisations. whilst most testing was carried out in clinical settings, conducted by community-based organisations as part of the programme, it yielded a disproportionate number of new diagnoses, indicating the importance of supporting community-based organisations to improve rates of hiv diagnosis. we must guarantee access to hiv prevention, counselling, testing and early care, and most of all, support a community-based approach. we are also calling for more action to tackle stigma and discrimination. people living with hiv/aids should be included in all equality and anti-discriminatory legislation. a 2010 unaids survey reported that those living with hiv experienced high levels of negative attitudes and behaviours, as well as employment discrimination, including loss of work. exclusion from family activities was reported by more than 40% of respondents. we must remember that the enemy is hiv, not hiv carriers. the eu should also provide a policy framework to encourage national governments to address the issue of hiv/aids in the context of sexual health strategies. we need adequate information and sex education, access to protection means, such as male and female condoms, and strengthening the rights of women in sexual relationships. in an irish context, i regret we still have not developed a national sexual health strategy. of course, the active participation and involvement of people living with hiv at all levels of the national and international response is crucial to the success of all our efforts. finally, i wish to thank my fellow co-sponsors on this question, and especially my colleague michael cashman, who has worked so hard on this issue for so long.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome mr draghi on his first appearance here. i also want to welcome what he said about treaty changes and the need for faster responses. in addition, i welcome the ecb support for liquidity across the european union, without which we would not have been able to survive so far. there are really serious questions facing us at this perilous crossroads in european history. the issue of eurobonds and the need for a lender of last resort is high on the agenda, whether that lender is the european central bank or the efsf or some other mechanism. the hour has arrived and we cannot dither any longer. this is the difficulty that we face and, if we do require treaty change, then let us go ahead on some pro forma basis on the presumption that that treaty change will be approved by member states retrospectively. if it works, they will pass it, but passing treaty changes takes time. in some countries we may even need a referendum. i believe we do not have that time. it may be said that there is a strict legal requirement, but this is like saying that we cannot turn the titanic right or left because the traffic light does not permit it. let it trundle on, crash and we will then put the lifeboats out and pick up whoever is left. the european project, and the euro in particular, cannot be allowed to go the same route as the titanic. in natural justice, which in my belief precedes written law, our leaders must act now. we are in peril. this is not a job for politicians. it is a job for statesmen and stateswomen. i hope that we will rise to the occasion. i think we should all be asked to read and re-read the speech that the polish foreign minister made in germany very recently. i think what he has to say is really imperative for all of us to understand and to know to secure the future of the union.
mr president, i have here a ransom note that was sent to the italian government on 5 august and sets forth a detailed prescription of austerity measures that had to be implemented. every one of these measures involves attacks on the rights and living standards of working class people. the note is signed off by you, mr draghi, as well as by jean-claude trichet, and comes from the european central bank. it finishes with a line that is fairly ominous: ‘we trust that the government will take all the appropriate actions’. the hostage here, of course, was the threat not to buy italian bonds. within the troika, the ecb has been aggressively pushing the austerity measures that have pushed people to misery in ireland, portugal and greece. the ecb has also been a central co-conspirator in the silent coups that have now been carried out in greece and in italy, replacing elected governments with governments of bankers. could you now please drop the pretence that has been repeated here today, that the ecb is in some way independent? it is independent only of any democratic checks and any accountability to ordinary people. it is subservient to the interests of the capitalist classes, the rich in the core euro countries, and it has acted as their shock troops throughout this crisis.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his work on this report, although the focus of the debate is less about 2010 and more about the future. i welcome mr draghi to the european parliament. his predecessor, mr trichet, is a household name in ireland, and i dare say his name too will reach that status, if it has not already – although i note yesterday that our finance minister, mr noonan, said that you were a man of fewer words than your predecessor. well, i want to thank you for your words here this morning. they were considered, as we would expect from someone in your position, but they were also very clear. they were spoken with the solemness that is required of all of us on this occasion. we do need to restore confidence. it is a very difficult thing to do once it is sundered. i look at mr bloom here, who asked questions and constantly does – as you do in a democracy – and i would say ‘be careful what you wish for’ because this is not a problem for the european union or for the euro zone: the problem we have is a global one, and if you get your wish that the euro should fail and that this house should fall, your country too will face incredible problems. i would like us, in the heat of debate, to realise the significance of words on the efforts to restore confidence. this is about people i represent who need to know that those who are elected and in power will do the right thing on their behalf. we need to move away, and i think we have, from the blame game that has happened in the past, because we now know that this is a much bigger problem for all of us. we need the euro to succeed and the ecb to be part of the restoration of both confidence and the new measures that we will require for the future. (the speaker agreed to take blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
taking my own advice, let me be calm. i could not agree with you more, but it therefore requires that if we caused the problem we have the capacity, collectively, to resolve it. shouting really does not work; it gets you heard but nobody listens.
mr president, i wonder if ms mcguinness would agree with me – given the experience we have had in ireland with economic commentators at the height of the celtic tiger era and since – that using the word professional and economist in the same sentence is totally unacceptable.
mr president, may i declare something. i am an economist, an agricultural one that is. i take mr mitchell’s question very seriously and this is why i would ask that everybody who chooses to be involved in this debate considers the consequences of their comments. it is ok in the public house to pontificate and swallow your last drink and go home. in this chamber and elsewhere it is important that we use words that mean something and that we follow them with action.
mr president, a signal has already been given that we are prepared to defend the system. the fact that we had coordination is hugely significant. this should be a sign to the markets, which – as mr van rompuy said to this house – can move at the click of a mouse, while politics requires time. i was very happy to see the developments yesterday and i think we all agree with these. we can make this work, but i would say that we must be single-minded, focused and – as i look to mr bloom – careful in our comments.
mr president, i want to welcome mr draghi. yes, certainly we need more integration but our citizens will not accept it – simply will not accept it – unless there is more democratic accountability and more social solidarity, and that has to be borne in mind. to avoid a collapse into a recession that will rival the hungry 1930s we need to save the euro. the ecb must become the lender of last resort; there is no other way, in my view, that this can be done. when ireland crashed it had a budget surplus and a debt-to-gdp ratio of 25%; way below the 60% ceiling. our problem arose because we nationalised private bank debt, which pushed our debt over 100% of gdp. those debts were owed to french banks, to british banks, to german banks and indeed to a range of others. but we cannot survive, we cannot deal with that debt, without moving beyond the issue of fiscal consolidation and all of this language we have about fiscal discipline. we need growth in europe, we need eurobonds, and i believe most of all we need a commitment to solidarity.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an socrú seo maidir le buiséad na bliana seo chugainn. ós rud é go bhfuil cúlú eacnamaíochta ar siúl, tá sé feiliúnach go nglacaimid leis an socrú seo mar ní féidir linn ardú rómhór a lorg don bhliain seo chugainn agus, is dócha, do na cúpla bliain amach anseo chomh maith. ba mhaith liom díriú ar dhá rud: an t-aigéan agus spórt. regarding the sea, i welcome very much the new budget line for maritime actions and particularly the proposals made by commissioner damanaki just a few days ago regarding the atlantic. i think the potential for developing new jobs and growth by exploiting the resources of the sea is immense, especially in terms of renewable energy. in the atlantic in particular we probably have the best resources in terms of offshore wind, tidal and wave power and we need to exploit them. under-sea mining could also solve many of our difficulties regarding raw materials, and of course offshore aquaculture is a tremendous opportunity to offset the destocking of the fish resources in the sea and guarantee healthy fish from our own waters, rather than importing them from dubious sources. regarding sport – and my colleague mr rübig mentioned many points which i agree with – one thing i would like to see in particular is an erasmus for sport because i think there is huge potential there. we do not give enough value to the potential of sport in solving economic difficulties, and particularly health difficulties. every day i attend hearings here with people coming looking for more and more money to do research to find cures for various health problems. the cure is very simple: prevention. that can start by having people lead active lives, healthy lives, starting at a young age.
rapporteur. − mr president, (opening words inaudible before microphone switched on) …proceedings, but these four reports came from a conciliation process. it was very clear that members of the committee on development accepted this process only on the basis that it does not set a precedent for the diminution of parliament’s powers in the future, that we fully expect codecision between parliament and the council to be respected and expect this to be underlined by the commission, and that this forms part of the agreement that we made as part of this conciliation process.
mr president, we are in the middle of the most serious crisis of capitalism in europe since the 1930s. the answer of the bosses and their representatives in governments across europe is very clear. it is contained in the one word ‘austerity’. the problem that they face is that the majority of people across europe do not agree with their solutions. the majority of people know that while the rich are getting richer the economies of europe are being destroyed and thrown into a downwards spiral. that is why we have this so-called ‘european semester’ and ‘economic surveillance’. it is part of the process of doing away with that very awkward notion of democratic checks, democratic accountability, and replacing it with financial coups in italy and in greece and the use of colonial tactics where austerity budgets are imposed by the likes of the commission. the meaning of this process was seen in relation to the irish budget, where next week we will have a discussion in the dáil, the irish parliament, about a budget that will contain cutbacks of up to eur 4 billion – savage attacks on ordinary people – but before any discussion in the irish parliament, before any discussion in irish society, the outlines of this budget turned up in the german bundestag. despite the false outrage of the irish government, that is precisely what ‘economic surveillance’ means.
mr president, 33 million people are currently living with hiv, 2.5 million people are newly infected every year and over two million people die of aids annually. according to irish aid, hiv/aids is likely to become the leading cause of death in the 21st century. these shocking figures underline the need for a real response to this disease and unfortunately in some respects we are going in the wrong direction. international financing for hiv programmes in the ex-colonial world has fallen by 10% in 2010. even in europe, as part of the massive cutbacks that are taking place in the public sector and in public services, cost-cutting measures have been introduced in relation to anti-retroviral drugs, a move which in reality puts people’s lives at risk. important research has been conducted and important steps forward have been made in terms of increasing access to anti-retroviral drugs with generic medicines and patent pills, but it is still not enough. the existence of patents that protect the pharmaceutical industry often means that those who need these drugs do not get access to them. therefore the pharmaceutical industry needs to be nationalised and run democratically in the interest of people not profit, and this needs to be accompanied by a substantial increase in internationally coordinated patent-free research to guarantee progress and access to improved hiv/aids drugs for all.
i scríbhinn. − thug parlaimint na heorpa a formheas inniu do bhuiséad an ae don bhliain 2012. tá sé mar aidhm ag an mbuiséad, lena bhfuil eur 129 billiún d’íocaíochtaí agus eur 147 billiún do ghealltanais i gceist, costais oibriúcháin a laghdú agus an fás agus an iomaíocht a spreagadh ag an am céanna.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and the concluding agreements reached through the conciliatory meetings determining the eu budget for 2012.
in writing. − i support the assistance this report will provide, to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 518 465 from the european globalisation fund for the retraining of redundant workers in the portuguese manufacturing sector.
in writing. − i support this report, which aims to provide additional financial assistance through the mechanism of the cohesion policy by topping up the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points. however, sometimes in these institutions, one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. a real problem has arisen in ireland and i presume elsewhere with regard to leader funding. queries have suddenly arisen about projects costing more than eur 200 000 and whether there is a conflict with state aid. this has caused a full stop with regard to projects that are in the pipeline and awaiting funding. state aid was never an issue before for these types of projects but now, because there is a query, everything stops. is nobody considering all the many projects that are currently at a standstill and the knock-on effects of the entire spend? if there are queries, projects should be allowed to continue until a decision is made. i am calling for an immediate decision on this matter. there is no point voting here to give higher levels of co-funding to member states and at the same time blocking leader projects because of new queries.
in writing. − i welcome the findings of this report on the role of the ecb although the focus of today’s debate is less about 2010 and more about the future. a solemness is required of all of us during these difficult times. we do need to restore confidence and it is a very difficult thing to do once it is sundered. we need to move away, and i think we have, from the blame game that has happened in the past, because we now know that this is a much bigger problem for all of us. we need the euro to succeed and the ecb to be part of the restoration of both confidence and the new measures that we will require for the future. in voting for this report i welcome its findings.
in writing. − i support this report on tackling early school leaving. the current european commission target is to reduce the rate of early school leaving to 10% or lower across the eu by 2020. we need to work to ensure equality of opportunity for children from all social, ethnic and religious backgrounds, and regardless of gender or disability. we also need more efficient early warning mechanisms and follow-up procedures put in place in response to learning difficulties which might lead to early school leaving. we should also encourage member states to take measures to counter stereotypes which can lead pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds to be steered towards vocational training courses, regardless of their potential in other areas. it is important also to develop teachers’ skills to help them deal with ‘at risk’ pupils young people should also be involved in discussions about programmes designed to tackle early school leaving. there is a clear link between early school leaving and youth unemployment, particularly in the light of the decline of jobs in low-skilled or unskilled labour sectors in the eu. member states must develop suitable programmes to reintegrate early school leavers into their education systems. equally, lifelong learning should also be promoted.
i scríbhinn. − molann an togra seo do scoileanna, údaráis phoiblí agus seirbhísí sláinte agus sóisialta comhoibriú le chéile le cur chuige sainiúil a shocrú chun dul i ngleic le fadhb luathfhágáil na scoile. iarrtar freisin infheistiú breise a dhéanamh i bhforbairt scileanna múinteoirí agus modhanna múinteoireachta nua a thabhairt isteach chun daoine óga a spreagadh le filleadh ar an scoil. is í aidhm an rúin ná ráta na luathfhágála a laghdú 10% faoin mbliain 2020. is ionann gach laghdú 1% ar an ráta luathfhágála agus 500 000 oibrí óg oilte nua sa bhliain do gheilleagar na heorpa, agus is buntáiste mór don fhás geilleagrach agus don chobhsaíocht shóisialta a bheadh ansin.
in writing. − approximately 6 million young people leave education and training per year with a lower secondary school level education, or less. action to address this situation is needed from an early age to ensure that children are given the best possible start. this report aims to tackle early school leaving in the context of the europe 2020 agenda; i welcome it and voted to support it.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán le haontachas na cróite chun an aontais eorpaigh. is í an chéad chéim eile anois ná go síneodh na ballstáit agus an chróit, i ndiaidh reifrinn náisiúnta, an conradh aontachais. táthar ag ceapadh go n-aontóidh an chróit leis an ae ar an 1 iúil 2013.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán le haontachas na cróite leis an aontas eorpach. is í an chéad chéim eile anois ná go síneodh na ballstáit agus an chróit an conradh aontachais i ndiaidh reifrinn náisiúnta. táthar ag ceapadh go n-aontóidh an chróit leis an ae an 1 iúil 2013.
in writing. − this is a historical moment and i strongly support this report welcoming croatian accession. i look forward to its expected entry into the eu on 1 july 2013, following the ratification process.
in writing. − i support this report as it goes a long way towards putting in place a code of conduct for meps in regard to financial interests and conflicts of interest. it is important that we carry out work in the most transparent way and indeed in an accountable fashion. however, i supported the amendment which proposed that we declare any remunerated income, not only that above eur 5000. i know there are administrative issues but this figure is far too high. for some people in some member states, eur 5000 represents a year’s income and regardless of where you live, it is a very significant sum of money. i am concerned that we are giving out the wrong message here, and much of the good work we do will have been cancelled out by leaving this eur 5000 figure as part of the code of conduct – it is just too high.
in writing. − the european semester involves the monitoring of the member states’ economic, budgetary and employment policies and the identification of growth-enhancing measures to assist in the achievement of national targets under the eu2020 strategy. in the context of the current economic crisis a european semester that aims to ensure sustained convergence of the economic and fiscal performance of the member states is to be welcomed. overcoming the sovereign debt crisis requires a closer coordination of economies, which this report advocates. i voted to support this report.
in writing. − the single market forum provides an opportunity for businesses and citizens and local and regional authorities to directly participate in, and influence further, the development of the single market which has, thus far, benefited up to 200 million europeans and opened up new opportunities for expansion for more than 21 million european businesses. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on the eu response to hiv/aids in the eu and neighbouring countries, mid-term review of commission communication com(2009)569 contains many positive recommendations. however, we decided to vote against the motion due to an explicit reference to abortion contained in paragraph 22.
in writing. − this resolution marks an important step towards addressing the eu response to aids/hiv within member states and neighbourhood countries. more than 2.2 million people are currently living with hiv in the eu. i support the general text of this resolution. however, i did not vote in favour of parts of paragraphs 10, 14, 22, and recital aa, since these are, and should remain, matters of competence for national governments. i abstained in the final vote on the resolution as a whole because those points of member state competence received majority support.
madam president, much work has been done to ensure protection for women, but the fact remains that one in four women is a victim of violence during her lifetime and domestic violence has a higher rate of repeat victimisation than any other type of crime. if a woman is a victim of violence, she should not fear that she will be deprived of the legal protection extended to her in her own country once she crosses national boundaries in the eu. i regret to note that, as this directive only concerns protection orders where they are a matter of criminal law, as such orders are unfortunately a matter of civil law in ireland, our country will not be opting into this directive. i hope sincerely that a further agreement can be reached quickly on the commissioner’s proposed regulation on mutual recognition of protection orders in civil matters.
mr president, judicial cooperation in the eu means that, just as criminals must not find ways of exploiting differences in the judicial systems of member states, we must also ensure that people who are arrested or charged with a crime in another member state do not suffer because of the differences in the legal systems. this directive will reinforce mutual trust between member states and will contribute to ensuring that, whenever someone is arrested or detained in europe, they will be guaranteed a uniform level of information about proceedings. member states must ensure that those arrested or detained in their territories are given prompt, detailed information about their rights. even though all member states are signatories of the european convention on human rights, human rights abuses still unfortunately occur within our territories. by passing this directive we are strengthening our trust in one another’s legal systems and helping to protect our citizens wherever they may be in europe.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá faoi iompar na mbanc in éirinn. as everybody knows, the banks were primarily responsible for many of the woes, particularly in my own country. they have been bailed out, but they have shown no such interest in bailing out many of their clients who are now in an unfortunate position because of the recession, which the banks were instrumental in causing. particularly i want to highlight the activities of those who have been put into receivership and how they are being treated by the receivers. at the weekend i was contacted by four different people about the behaviour of these receivers who go into people’s yards – particularly agricultural contractors and farmers who live in isolated areas – frighten the living daylights out of them, ignore all protocol, take machinery etc., turn out the lights, and do enormous damage and a great deal of threatening, both in language and indeed in physical activity. it is not good enough and i want to highlight it.
mr president, tomorrow we will debate the outcome of the summit of thursday and friday, but in advance of that could i suggest that we need to change the public narrative around solving our current difficulties, because i believe that this will not happen in one step or one meeting, which is what is portrayed in the general public debate, but rather by incremental change, which is what has been happening over time. i think we need to say that very openly to our citizens, rather than believing that each meeting will be the final solution to a crisis which has taken ten years to make and therefore will take a lengthy time to actually be resolved. so let me say to the media commentators and the market analysts who in a headline or in 500 words declare that this must be solved this week: it will not happen. it will happen slowly and we will have to do it working together. europe united can and will come to a solution.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom míle buíochas a ghabháil leis an uasal sturdy as ucht an t-ábhar seo a chur os ár gcomhair agus na moltaí a ghabhann leis. certainly we are in a difficult position in the european union right now. we have our own problems in the eurozone. our future in terms of competing against the rest of the world and keeping up our economic situation is certainly at risk. for that reason, we have to try and ensure that everything in relation to trade is done fairly and across the board and that we are not disadvantaged. certainly the point about the non-tariff barriers needs to be dealt with on a global level. in essence it is protectionism and that is not what is required in the modern era. we also we have to ensure that any ftas we engage in are worthwhile and beneficial to european competitiveness and companies, and that they are both sensible and practical. i believe that many of them in the past were not like that.
mr president, mr barroso is presumably fluent in the eurocratic new-speak that is contained in these documents. can i ask him to help me translate some of the phrases that appear in last week’s agreement, for example the ‘automatic sanctions’ proposed. is it not the case that this actually refers to fines of hundreds of millions of euros for countries that dare to stray from the austerity policies imposed by the unelected commission? one refers innocuously to the ‘strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states’. is that not the same sort of surveillance as that exercised by colonial powers over their colonies? is not the ‘fiscal stability union’ which this agreement proposes an austerity union in reality, where the cutback policies proposed will be institutionalised and will impoverish further millions and destroy further economies? mr barroso, you have effectively suspended democracy in greece and italy, imposing government by the bankers for the bankers. can i ask you to respect the democratic right of the people of ireland to a referendum and not to wage a campaign of fear and blackmail against them. surely people – not only in ireland, but right across europe – should have a right to decide freely about such a fundamental change which diminishes democracy and enshrines austerity?
mr president, i often wonder whether anyone in this house listens to what other speakers are saying. we come in and we speak and we leave. i listened carefully to mr van rompuy. perhaps his quiet way does not appeal to the media, but he speaks with great sense and great calmness. he said that we are on a long road to recovery. we need to change the narrative. there will be no instant or one-meeting solution to this crisis. let us not ignore the progress that was made on thursday and friday, even though we are disappointed with aspects of it. let us salute that little bit of progress and look for more towards march. let me say that there is one issue that i am really concerned about. it is the sense in which the franco-german axis is the european union. i fear that this is bad for france and for germany. we need to rebuild the solidarity of 27 member states of equal status within the european union. i think that will help us restore europe and save the euro.
madam president, it gives me great pleasure to support this report on the right to information in criminal proceedings. i think it is vitally important to ensure that common minimum standards in criminal proceedings are in place. it is essential to grant eu citizens fundamental rights and help overcome the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition. this is one of the key elements, founding principles and cornerstones of the european union law. this report will certainly help increase trust between judicial authorities and it is very welcome indeed. what i have to say is that we must work collectively so that we have common minimum standards as regards the right to information in criminal proceedings right throughout the european union. again, it gives me great pleasure to support this particular report. well done to the rapporteur!
madam president, i – like the other members who have spoken – welcome the european protection order. i think it is an excellent initiative which will ensure that measures for victims’ protection will extend from one member state to another, because the problem is that at present protection orders stop at our borders, leaving the victim defenceless. the epo marks a huge step forward in victims’ rights as a strong instrument which will provide a safer haven for victims of violence across member states’ borders, particularly women. over 100 000 women in the eu are covered by protective measures at present. however, the epo is not nearly as effective as it might have been. in december 2010 i raised my objection to the council’s blocking minority argument against the inclusion of civil law measures in the epo. i had previously outlined that both the council and the parliament’s legal service found that the legal basis was adequate, a position which was unanimously supported by the committee on legal affairs. i sincerely regret that today’s compromise excludes all civil measures. i hope that ireland will soon be able to adopt the measure that we have adopted here today.
madam president, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean agreement area is extremely welcome. the gfcm’s objectives are clear: they are to promote the development, the conservation, the rational management and the best utilisation of living marine resources as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting seas and waters. i very much welcome today’s vote which will allow for the sustainable exploitation of fishery sources in the mediterranean area. as mr jahr has said, and as the previous speaker has said, all policies and initiatives, given our depleted fish stocks, must, and i emphasise must, be based on sustainable exploitation.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo mar feictear domsa go bhfuil earnáil na bhfiontar beag agus meánmhéide an-tábhachtach don gheilleagar san aontas eorpach. táimse cinnte gur tús maith é an tuarascáil seo chun todhchaí a chinntiú d’fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide amach anseo. tá ról lárnach ag an tionscadal i jabanna a chruthú go háitiúil agus cuidiú le fás geilleagrach. in éirinn, mar shampla, is fiú níos mó ná 10% dár n-olltáirge náisiúnta na fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide. agus tá níos mó ná 40% den fhórsa oibre fostaithe ag na comhlachtaí seo. tá cur chuige comhtháite ag teastáil maidir leis seo san aontas eorpach, agus níl an taontas eorpach ag déanamh a dhóthain maidir le fadhb an rómhaorlathais – sin red tape – ach is tús maith é an tuarascáil seo agus fáiltím roimpi.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund in the sum of eur 3 918 850 to the italian construction industry. these funds will provide much-needed assistance to those made redundant in this sector as a result of the global economic crisis.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh an méid atá déanta chun cuidiú a chur ar fáil i gcás deacrachtaí maidir le difríochtaí idir údaráis bhreithiúnacha éagsúla. ní mór go mbeadh teacht ag daoine lena mbaineann cás coiriúil ar eolas soiléir maidir leis na himeachtaí coiriúla. is éard atá i gceist le ‘litir na gceart’, dá bhforáiltear sa tuarascáil, ná go bhfuil an ceart ag an té atá faoi amhras sa chás eolas atá soiléir agus éasca le tuiscint a fháil maidir lena chearta. deir sé chomh maith go bhfuil an ceart ann fanacht ina thost, cóir leighis phráinneach a fháil agus dul i dteagmháil lena mhuintir. ní mór ‘litir na gceart’ sin a chur i bhfeidhm gan mhoill sna ballstáit uile chun cearta bunúsacha mhuintir an ae a chosaint. tá roinnt teaghlach éireannach tar éis teagmháil a dhéanamh liom maidir le daoine a bhaineann leo atá faoi amhras i gcásanna i dtíortha eile an aontais, agus cé go bhfuil sé ríthábhachtach seasamh i gcónaí le dlí agus ceartas, tá sé fíor chomh maith go bhfuil an ceart ag gach éinne eolas soiléir cruinn faoina chás a fháil, is cuma cad iad na difríochtaí a bhíonn ann idir córais dhlíthiúla éagsúla an ae.
in writing. − i voted in favour of kevin cardiff’s appointment to the european court of auditors on account of his qualifications, experience and integrity. all meps have an obligation to assess nominations to the court of auditors solely in accordance with the criteria set down in the treaties and the european parliament’s rules. domestic political considerations do not come into it. i would also draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur, ms ayala sender in this case, emphasised mr cardiff’s qualifications for this post, that he had vast experience and had responded openly and comprehensively to all the questions put to him both before and during his hearing, and that she had no hesitation in backing him.
in writing. − i welcome the creation of a european protection order for the victims of domestic violence, harassment and stalking etc. in the eu. this new epo will ensure that criminal law barring and protection orders issued in participating member states will be recognised and enforced in other participating member states, upon application. i regret that ireland has not opted-in to this legislation. i appreciate the legal difficulties at stake – barring orders are nearly always a matter of civil law in ireland and this directive only covers criminal law orders – but i do hope that these can be overcome before the late 2013 deadline for transposition. i welcome the irish government’s announcement of its general intention to take part in the draft regulation on civil law european protection orders, as proposed by the commission last may. domestic violence has a higher rate of repeat victimisation than any other crime. both of these measures will allow the victims and potential victims of violence to move more easily around the eu, whilst hampering the movement of their aggressors. the sooner these measures are in force in ireland the better.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic crisis, some member states are facing budgetary constraints which might prevent them from fulfilling their commitments in co-financed community programmes such as eardf. i welcome this proposal by the commission to temporarily increase the maximum european union co-financing rate for such programmes running in member states that are subject to support of the efsm (currently greece, ireland and portugal) and the balance of payment facility for non-eurozone member states (latvia and romania). this temporary increase would reduce the amount of matching national funds needed in budget years 2011 and 2012 and would thus help to make programmed funds available for the rural economy and contribute to an overall economic recovery in these member states.
a uachtaráin, i saol idéalach ní bheadh aon ghá le fórsaí cosanta ná slándála, ach i ndáiríre tá an domhan ag éirí níos dainséirí in aghaidh an lae. dá bhrí sin beidh gá le fórsaí cosanta agus slándála go deo na ndeor. i think that in the modern world we have seen greater freedom for people to travel and that also has opened up greater opportunities for terrorists and criminals to engage in their activities. for that reason i think we should be looking at a broader role for defence forces in particular in counteracting the activities of criminal gangs and terrorists; and often these are interlinked. if i might give an example: illicit cigarettes being consumed in the european union cost the european economy around eur 10 billion a year. i think there is need for the defence forces to have a broader remit and intelligence networks involving the police, involving customs and involving the military to counteract the real threats within europe currently coming from terrorists and from criminals.
mr president, on a point of order, i have been waiting for quite a long time to speak and i find now that i have to go and vote and i cannot speak. it really is because of these debates not being held on time. i wanted to raise an important issue and i want it on the record that i did not get an opportunity to intervene in the debate.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar suimiúil seo. one of the great deleights of being a member of the european parliament is that you can buy freshly pressed orange juice from machines both in brussels and in strasbourg. the one question i have though is: why is the price in strasbourg almost twice the price you pay in the parliament in brussels? however, having said that, i also feel that there is a market for similar machines to be made available to consumers right throughout the european union, because there is confusion regarding fruit juices – those pressed from fresh fruit and those from concentrates. the second point which i want to make is that i was amazed in researching this to discover that 82% of the orange juice used within the european union is imported, mainly from brazil and the usa. i will agree with previous speakers that this has to be addressed in the reformed cap so that we can avail of the opportunity to grow fresh fruit, particularly oranges for orange juice, within the european union where there is a perfect climate for it. certainly that is an opportunity that we should not miss. it would improve fresh fruit and it would also lead to a reduction in the carbon footprint and co2 emissions. labelling is absolutely vital; we have to give the best information possible to consumers, particularly in relation to added sugar. an awful lot of consumers at this point in time do not make the distinction. i think there is not just a need for what we are doing here this evening, there is also a need for an educational process. people are hungry and thirsty to get this information and, if they have it, they will act on it. this is a good move and i welcome it.
mr president, first of all i would like to compliment the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and my colleague ms klaß for their good work in this regard. i must say that i thought that the rapporteur, mr newton dunn, gave a fascinating account of this whole topic. i enjoyed it and learned a lot from him. we all want to save the planet and obviously the quality of water is of immense importance to us. from my observations in my country, the quality of water has improved immensely over the last number of years, largely due to european union policies, especially in relation to the use of fertilisers. in this regard i think there is a challenge here for us to come up with phosphate-free formulations for dishwashers and washing machines, both in terms of domestic use, but also industrial use. as ms klaß said, the quality of water varies – the hardness and the softness – right throughout the european union. we are creating an opportunity for people to develop these products, but also creating a market by having deadlines by which they have to be introduced. i think that is a very important point.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, bagraíonn an t-eotrófú – an iomarca cothaitheach – go mór ar chaighdeán uisce an ae agus tá sé ráite ag gníomhaireacht um chaomhnú comhshaoil na héireann gurb é an fosfar an cothaitheach is contúirtí d’uiscebhealaí na héireann. is glantóirí, a úsáideann fosfáití le héifeachtaí cruais uisce a laghdú, is mó a bhíonn mar chúis le truailliú fosfair in uiscí na heorpa. is iad siúd is cúis leis na taoidí ‘dearga’ agus ‘uaine’: an blás algach a dhéanann scrios ar chaighdeán an uisce in aibhneacha agus san fharraige. mar atá faoi láthair, is próiseas fada costasach d’ionaid chóireála fuíolluisce é comhdhúile fosfáite a bhaint as agus níl an teicneolaíocht chuí ag na ballstáit ar fad chun é seo a dhéanamh. chuige sin, fearaim fíorfháilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil seo maidir leis an leibhéal fosfáite i nglantóirí a ísliú a oiread is féidir agus an leibhéal fosfáite i bpúdair níocháin a laghdú a oiread is féidir – a dhíothú más féidir sin – amach anseo. mar thoradh ar na srianta seo atá le cur i bhfeidhm san ae ar fad, beidh uisce níos glaine ag muintir na héireann agus an ae agus laghdófar ar bhagairt ollfhás an bhláis algaigh agus an tslobáin agus fiailí uisce, a thachtann beathra eile an uisce.
madam president, i can only hope that the unsustainable nature of the path chosen has become as evident as it is ultimately self-defeating for the whole union. stuck with the same currency with no possibility for competitive devaluation, peripheral countries found themselves confined to wage deflation and to growth trends fed by financial credit from the centre, where competitiveness owes a lot to cheap wages as well. our problems have no easy solutions, but we at the edge of the eurozone have sustained severe economic pain, only to be promised more of it by the recent political developments such as the ‘six-pack’ tightening of the stability and growth pact. where is the solidarity side of that grand bargain? is it just more loans at rates barely below those demanded by extortionate, speculative market players? we need reform that works both ways and serves all of our citizens.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil aigne a lán daoine dírithe ar mhórcheisteanna an lae cosúil leis an euro sa todhchaí agus an cúlú eacnamaíochta, tá sé tábhachtach go leanfaimid ar aghaidh leis an obair go háirithe ar son ár saoránach. is deacair cuimhneamh ar ábhar atá níos cóngaraí dár saoránaigh ná an t-ábhar seo. mar is dócha go n-ólann beagnach gach duine táirgí ó thorthaí gach uile lá b’fhéidir, nó go minic ar aon nós. dá bhrí sin tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh idirdhealú le feiscint go soiléir idir sú torthaí úra agus sú dlúth, agus cabhraíonn an tuarascáil chun é sin a dhéanamh. tá sé tábhachtach freisin go mbeadh an lipéad soiléir, go háirithe má tá siúcra sa bhreis sa táirge. agus an rud deireanach, tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh na paicéid féin soiléir macánta. taispeánadh anseo aréir nach raibh a lán de na paicéid soiléir agus macánta, ach beidh siad amhlaidh sa todhchaí.
a uachtaráin, vótálas le mo ghrúpa ar an tuarascáil seo agus cé go bhfuil deacrachtaí ag baint leis, caithfimid a rá go mbeidh seans againn é sin a cheartú amach anseo agus tá súil agam go nglacfaimid leis an deis sin. cosnaíonn an socrú seo eur 36 milliún gach uile bhliain agus mar a dúradh tá deacrachtaí móra ag baint leis an sahára thiar, agus caithfear é sin a phlé agus a cheartú. vótálas freisin i bhfabhar an leasú ó bhéal sa tuarascáil eile a bhaineann le maracó a chuireann béim ar chearta sibhialta agus ar chaighdeáin shóisialta agus chomhshaoil. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach agus caithfear é sin a chur san áireamh amach anseo chomh maith. tá seans againn an socrú seo a dhéanamh níos fearr amach anseo ar son mharacó, ar son an tsahára thiar agus ar son an aontais. tá gá an deis sin a thógaint.
mr president, if anyone is in any doubt about the militarised and big-business nature of the eu, they should read this report. we are in the midst of a very serious economic crisis. working-class people are being asked to take cuts in their jobs, cuts to their pay, cuts to their public services, and here we have the parliament agreeing to a report insisting that the so-called defence sector is protected from any cuts. let us be absolutely clear. this is a significant amount of european taxpayers’ money that is being funnelled into the coffers of these makers of weapons of mass destruction or weapons of individual destruction. it is fostering the development of the military-industrial complex within europe. the biggest weapons corporation in europe, bae, made almost eur 3 billion in profit last year selling weapons to the likes of saudi arabia and the israeli army and selling weapons that are used in iraq, in afghanistan and elsewhere to kill ordinary people. instead of pouring money into their coffers, we should be investing, creating jobs, defending public services. we should take these major corporations into democratic public ownership and we should redeploy the capital and the workers to socially useful industries.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil a lán moltaí suimiúla sa tuarascáil seo, caithfidh mé a rá gur staon mise agus mo chomhghleacaithe éireannacha san epp ar an tuarascáil agus ar an gcuid is mó de na vótaí a bhí ann ar maidin. an chúis a ndearnamar é sin ná gur tír neodrach í éire, agus de ghnáth agus go rialta nuair a thagann sé chuig cúrsaí cosanta agus cúrsaí míleata staonaimid. sin an méid, níl aon rud eile ann. mar fhocal scoir, ní bhfuaireas an seans ar maidin, ba mhaith liom an pholainn a mholadh as ucht an jab breá a rinne siad ar an uachtaránacht le sé mhí anuas agus go háirithe an príomh-aire donald tusk as ucht an óráid bhreá a thug sé dúinn ar maidin.
mr president, on saturday a chant echoed right across russia as people declared ‘putin is a thief, putin is a thief’. the regime did its very best to scare people into not attending the protests. there were massive threats of repression, with rumours of extra troops being brought into moscow. the schools even opened on saturday to try to prevent people from coming, but nonetheless people courageously came out and protested, in their tens and hundreds of thousands, because of the depth of anger and opposition at the blatant election rigging. one hundred thousand turned up in moscow and ten thousand in st petersburg, and there were up to a hundred other significant protests in other cities. the announcement by president medvedev of an investigation into election rigging is a very transparent attempt to divert the movement. the same is true of the managed disagreement at the top of society now, supposedly to give the impression of a democratic discussion. in my opinion, these diversions should be rejected by the movement and it should continue to fight for free and fair elections where genuine opposition parties can register and stand. a real alternative to the parties of the oligarchs and the nationalist and populist forces is needed. that means building a mass workers’ party to fight for the overthrow of the oligarchs and capitalism and for democratic socialist change.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report on pre-accession assistance in my capacity as the chairman of the eu-iceland joint parliamentary committee.
in writing. − over 82% of the orange juice consumed in europe comes mainly from brazil and the united states, with less than 20% of the orange juice consumed in the eu being produced here. it is therefore important that the european sector is supported by bringing the directive into line with international law and the codex and establishing the same rules for all products marketed in community territory. i voted in favour of this report which aims to contribute towards the free circulation of these products by clarifying rules on labelling, product classification, authorised ingredients and the admissibility of certain practices.
in writing. − i welcome this commission regulation to better harmonise different rules at national level in reducing the amount of phosphorus used in detergents in domestic washing-machines by banning phosphates from consumer detergents from july 2013, and consumer automatic dishwashing detergents from january 2017. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the proposal to extend the current agreement is unacceptable because of its low cost-benefit ratio for the eu, the excessive exploitation of demersal stocks, the very limited contribution of eu funds to the development of local fisheries policy and, very importantly, the failure to demonstrate how it benefits the sahrawi people. the european commission should begin the process of negotiating a new economically, environmentally and socially beneficial and sustainable agreement. eu funds for the development of local fisheries policy must be used more efficiently and be more closely monitored. the commission must guarantee that the new agreement fully respects international law and benefits all affected local populations, including the sahrawi people.
in writing. − this report proposes a one-year extension of the protocol to the fpa between the european community and morocco. i agree with the rapporteur that this extension could lead to the exploitation of fish stocks and would not provide benefits to the territory of western sahara, in whose water the majority of the fishing takes place. any economic activity related to natural resources should be carried out for the benefit of all of the people of such territories. i therefore voted against this proposal to extend the protocol to the fpa between the european community and morocco.
in writing. − this report is a dis-service to the war on terrorism, the victims of terrorism and the services battling to end terrorism. the epp have consistently voiced their concern over this report. i personally debated with the rapporteur on live television. i impressed upon her, among other things, the need to recognise and support the victims of terrorism and the need to balance data protection with security and justice. the report uses a cost-benefit analysis; this is both over-simplified and highly insulting to those who have lost their loved ones due to terrorist acts. both the epp and commissioner tajani have expressed our concerns with this report; as the report remains unchanged, our negative stance remains unchanged.
madam president, the european institutions’ administrative practices need to be open to greater public scrutiny and such scrutiny will undoubtedly improve citizens’ confidence in their european pubic bodies. commissioner, in my own country the freedom of information act 1997 has revolutionised the ways decisions are made by public bodies and by public officials. if a decision-maker believes that his or her determination may be the subject of a freedom of information request, he or she will be much more diligent in ensuring that proper procedure is followed. this is what legal scholars term the virtuous cycle of public administration. however, notwithstanding all of this, the fees incurred by individuals under the current freedom of information system in ireland acts as a barrier to full access to pubic information. these fees can be up to eur 150 per request, and eur 20 per hour if the document has to be searched for and retrieved. so, whatever system is decided upon, i would encourage my colleagues to take cognisance of the problems in the irish context concerning fees when deciding on practical issues in this proposal. i welcome the fact that this legislation is intended to cover not only parliament, commission and council but all eu public bodies, excepting the derogations in relation to the banks. thank you commissioner for listening.
a uachtaráin, féachtar ar an ghníomhaireacht eorpach sábháilteachta muirí (emsa) mar eagraíocht éifeachtach agus tá ballstáit na heorpa ag sábháil airgid mar thoradh ar a cuid oibre. tá ról lárnach ag emsa maidir le timpistí mara agus truailliú a laghdú agus ar ndóigh daoine a shábháil ar muir. i would support the delegation of more powers to strengthen and improve emsa. for example, the recently adopted report on the integrated marine policy calls on the commission to extend the responsibilities to safety inspections and offshore installations. as chairman of parliament’s delegation to the eea and efta, i welcome the fact that norway and iceland are active members of the european maritime safety agency. i fully support the proposal to provide emsa with greater scope to assist neighbouring countries because we should remember that search and rescue knows no political or geographical boundaries.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, let us be absolutely explicit about the situation in the cotton fields of uzbekistan. according to some ngos, up to 2 million children, some as young as seven, are forced to work in these fields. they face really horrific conditions – 10-hour working days, exposure to harmful pesticides – and risk physical harm or expulsion from school if they refuse to do it. despite that and despite the condemnations, including by the eu, of the conditions in the cotton fields of uzbekistan, the reality is that the government of uzbekistan still benefits from reduced tariffs under gsp. again and again in this house, the gulf between words and actions is great. that gulf should be closed here. the uzbek government’s blanket denials are simply not credible, given the multitude of independent reports and the fact that the government refuses to allow access to the ilo. the attempts by the right wing in this parliament to water down the report are outrageous in my opinion. they should answer to a 14-year old boy from uzbekistan who said: ‘we’re really afraid of getting expelled from school. every september 2, the first day of school, the director warns us that if we don’t go out to pick cotton we might as well not come back to school. the school administration does everything to create the impression that the schoolchildren themselves are the ones who have decided to go out to the cotton fields. but just try to “voluntarily” not go out to the harvest! we’re all forced to obey this unwritten law.’ no consent should be given to this agreement and there must be no ambiguity about that. consent can only be considered after the ilo has been allowed access and after the practice of forced child labour has been ended.
madam president, personally i am somewhat dubious about giving any aid to afghanistan from european union funds. this is a state where, a few short months ago, osama bin laden was found in a custom-built compound under the noses of the afghan authorities. until we are satisfied that things are in order, that funds can be used for what they are designed for and that we can satisfy the european court of auditors and other independent auditing bodies, i think we should progress very slowly with this matter. in an ideal world we should give assistance, because we need to be neighbourly. however, without having firm guarantees in place that any money coming from the european union is going to be used in a proper fashion and that we can guarantee that, i think we should be very careful about moving along too quickly.
madam president, i rather like this report. i think it has much to offer both in terms of the european strategy, and particularly in the five countries involved. indeed it must be recognised that the european union, since it developed this strategy in 2007, has made much progress in central asia. that needs to continue. we can do so much to help the lives of the people in all the fields that are important – the rule of law, human rights, water quality, transport, energy, etc. – and we must avail ourselves of that opportunity. this is an area that is of strategic importance to us and, particularly by developing closer relations with it, the entire area can benefit. particularly, i would like to see regular eu-central asian summits. in that way one could engage better, have an overall view and see what progress needs to be made in the future.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil sé déanach san oíche tá na hábhair atá á bplé againn an-tábhachtach, agus go háirithe an ceann seo a bhaineann le sláinte agus sábháilteacht ár n-oibrithe féin. gabhaim buíochas le mo chara bn uí delli as an tuarascáil bhreá a chuir sí romhainn anseo anocht. in common parlance, this is a no-brainer. obviously, the healthier and safer workers are, the more productive they will be, the happier they will be and the greater sense of ownership they will have. there will be a concomitant reduction in terms of absenteeism and social security costs. while legislation cannot do everything, it is nevertheless important that we legislate, particularly in the areas that mrs delli mentioned of carcinogenic, biological and chemical risks. also, my experience is that, where legislation is taken seriously, people actually go beyond that legislation. recently i was asked to present the national health and safety awards for all sorts of businesses – big and small – in ireland. i was absolutely amazed at the lengths to which companies went to secure the health and safety of their workers and the bond that it created within and between the workforce and the management. certainly a great deal can be learned from that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i want to express my real disappointment at the recent council decision. i cannot say i am shocked, because this is not the first time we have heard such a message from the council. are they saying to us that the crisis is over, when the crisis is raging? refusing to accept that and deal adequately with it is just plain unreasonable. it is also dangerous – but that is another story. or are they really saying to us that they are giving up on social solidarity and that workers and countries are on their own? i can understand that some member states do not support the globalisation fund; they believe it is not a suitable instrument. however, four different compromises were presented and none were successful, so i believe some member states have simply set their face against this fund, which offers european added value to redundant workers who have lost their jobs because of the financial crisis. they want to cut the fund, to minimise it. yet the number of applications under the crisis derogation continues to rise and, significantly, more and more countries are accessing the fund. just as the fund is up and running, the brakes are being applied. we can improve the functioning of the fund – and hopefully we in parliament will help to do that over the next few months – but the council ignored the commission and the strong views of the parliament, which adopted the commission’s proposal without amendment. we have been sidelined, and what is incredible is that some of the countries in the blocking minority successfully accessed the egf for their own citizens who were made redundant due to the crisis, but are now saying to other european citizens that they do not think they should access the fund under the same conditions as their citizens, and that they are going to make it more difficult for them to do this. as i said, i am not shocked, but i am genuinely saddened at the absence of solidarity – it is not a good omen. (applause)
madam president, the decision by eight governments to block the extension of the derogation is a disgrace. it will make it significantly harder for laid-off workers to access the globalisation adjustment fund. it adds insult to the injury of the already-existing inadequacies of that fund. workers in ireland have suffered from mismanagement and bureaucratic delay even as regards how the fund has been administered, with the result that a significant amount of the money allocated for dell workers is due to be returned. any assistance for workers faced with the tragedy of unemployment is to be welcomed. however, the fund has simply proved to be a tiny sticking plaster on the massive gaping wound of unemployment created by capitalism across europe. instead of making it harder for workers to access the fund, it should be made easier, and workers should be put at the very heart of the administration of the fund. more fundamentally, if the eu and national governments are serious about tackling unemployment, they should introduce measures, including nationalisation, to stop multinational corporations from relocating and engaging in a race to the bottom in terms of workers’ wages and conditions.
madam president, i will allow others to deal with the french situation and will address my remarks in particular to the broader place we now find ourselves in. i join with others in expressing my huge concern and disappointment about the council decision and the blocking minority. i think it does, if you like, build on other concerns which i have about how europe is currently operating, the mindset of the council and the impact of that on the wider european solidarity that others have spoken about. we are in crisis, and it seems very wise that we should extend this mechanism and also improve the way it functions so that the money flows to assist those who are forced out of work to gain employment. but i see a trend emerging here in the council; we have also had a block on the aid for the needy programme, which will have its life cut short. i am also concerned, commissioner – as you will be – about how this will impact on the negotiations for the budget after 2013. i do not envy you in your task or us in ours in trying to have a sustainable budget. but could i address a part of that future? i see in the common agricultural policy reforms that there is a proposal that this fund will be extended to farmers. i rather see this as a blanket, a comfort blanket, which will not exist if we are in the current mindset and will do little to address some of the very damaging aspects of trade negotiations on agriculture, which are also damaging for food security. but i wish you well, commissioner. i wish there was some christmas spirit in the council though.
madam president, the council decision not to continue extending egf assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis is plainly indefensible. while eu leaders rush around the continent trying to prevent financial catastrophe on a global scale, these ministers seem to think the crisis is not impacting on jobs – when unemployment levels reach record highs across the eurozone, being over 14% in ireland. unbelievably, the signal the ministers are sending is that these unprecedented rates are not caused by the economic crisis. ironically, this unfortunate decision was made on the same day the commission announced an extension of a derogation granting member states a licence to spend fortunes more bailing out the banks. to add insult to injury, the special arrangement for banks will start the day after the end of this meagre but important egf provision to support people on the dole because of a crisis triggered by market speculators and reckless bankers. as a consequence, i must now call on the commission to prepare and put in place, as soon as possible, a new european crisis fund or a real economy fund in order to assist the many workers made redundant by the toxic fallout of our hyper-financialised economy, which has swept the eu into the woes we see today.
madam president, i think we learned last weekend how difficult it is to get unanimity on anything at a european level. therefore in matters relating to energy savings and efficiency, it takes a long time to penetrate the public’s mind. but i think, largely because of the success of the intelligent energy europe programme, that this is now beginning to happen. from my experience, i am amazed at the number of businesses, towns and villages who have come to me over the last number of months with projects designed to ensure that they can make energy savings and be more efficient through new schemes. so for that reason it is very important that this scheme would continue, either in its present form or integrated into the multiannual financial framework. i would be confident that commissioner oettinger, whom i listened to yesterday at the meeting of the committee on industry, research and energy, and commissioner geoghegan-quinn, will be of one mind and will form a package whereby all this can happen so that we can reach our targets of 80% savings by 2050.
madam president, i think the commissioner got the message from the house that we like this programme. it is simple, it works and therefore, at the very least, we want its objectives to be maintained and enshrined in any future programme. the concern we have is that we are not reaching our energy efficiency targets, as it will take time for the mindset of the wider public to be engaged in this issue and therefore to change in an appropriate manner. in relation to horizon 2020, our concern would be that this concept of intelligent energy might be lost within that bigger programme. therefore, he must reassure us that this will not be the case. i end by saying that if it is not broken, why are we trying to fix it? i really think the commissioner should take that message back to his colleagues.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague andreas schwab for this very readable and excellent competition report and in particular, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for paragraphs 41, 42 and 43, because they deal in particular with the food supply chain. the call for an investigation into the situation in the retail sector because of alleged abuse of market power by dominant retail chains is particularly welcome. but it is not just because it would have a negative effect on small retailers and producers, it also has a negative effect on consumers. if we have too few controlling this chain, we will have less choice as consumers, and that is really bad for us. i gather that the high-level forum for the better functioning of the food supply chain is making some slow progress. it seems to me that we in this house need to know exactly what is happening in that discussion at commission level with the stakeholders, and i hope there will be a report brought to parliament in the middle of next year.
madam president, thousands of oil workers in the mangystau region of west kazakhstan have been on strike now for over six months. they are fighting for better working conditions; they are fighting for an increase in pay due to the very harsh conditions they experience – which i saw for myself; they are fighting for the right to have independent trade unions; and they are calling for nationalisation, under workers’ control, of all enterprises in the oil extraction sector. the kazakhstan government and the oil giant kazmunaigaz have completely ignored the just demands of these workers and have effectively refused to engage in meaningful negotiations. instead, the workers have been met with very severe and brutal repression. one trade unionist has been murdered; another worker’s daughter has been killed and their lawyer has been jailed for six years. violence continues against these workers. another strike activist returned to his home on 30 november to find his whole house and his car had been smashed up, and the police refused even to take a statement from him. i spoke to a group of workers last week who have launched an international appeal for the trade union movement to show solidarity with their struggle and have also called on the international leaders of the trade union movement to support the struggle of the workers to break the links with the leadership of the so-called confederation of free trade unions of kazakhstan, which is completely pro-employer and pro-government. tomorrow there will be major demonstrations in kazakhstan and internationally in support of these workers. i will be standing alongside them in solidarity.
in writing. − i support the application of the french government to access the egf on behalf of redundant workers of renault. this application has taken a long time to progress through the system and has had its fair share of controversy. however, it is important that we always keep a clear perspective on egf applications. this fund is intended to provide tailor-made packages for workers – that is the core issue.
in writing. − we fully support transparency in the decision-making and administrative workings of the european institutions and are in favour of several measures in this report seeking to increase transparency and access to information for european citizens. however, a number of points in the report go far beyond measures required for increased transparency and in the interests of the privacy of our constituents, who often contact us – as their public representatives – with matters and queries of a personal or sensitive nature, it was necessary to vote against this report.
in writing. − the european parliament is the most transparent of all eu institutions. agendas and legislative documents, including amendments, are available online prior to any vote. members of the public can follow committee and plenary proceedings in person or via live web-streaming. voting results are published, including details of which meps voted and how they voted in the case of roll-call votes. although this report prioritises transparency, it goes too far and actually poses a potential threat to the smooth working of the parliament. the text confuses ‘access to documents’ with ‘administrative procedures’ and goes beyond the remit of its legal base. this also puts into question the interinstitutional agreement on the use of classified material. transparency is of the utmost importance, as is the ‘space to think’. although i am in agreement with the main thrust of this report, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i wish to explain why the irish epp delegation abstained from the vote on the cashman report. the european parliament is the most transparent of the eu institutions with agendas and legislative documents, including amendments, available online prior to any vote. the public has the right to follow committee and plenary proceedings in person. plenary sessions and committees are also web-streamed, allowing all eu citizens and journalists to follow sessions live. voting results are published, including details of which meps voted and how they voted in the case of roll-call votes. decision-making in the european parliament in the absence of a standing governing coalition (like most national parliamentary systems) requires a permanent search for possible compromises. this ‘space to think’ needs to be safeguarded to preserve the functioning of the ep’s system of compromise. the cashman report confuses access to documents with administrative procedures and goes beyond the remit of its legal base. this also puts into question the interinstitutional agreement on the use of classified material. the irish epp delegation fully supports transparency but public access to documents must also meet legal requirements. in this regard, we do not feel the cashman report is satisfactory.
in writing. − the european maritime and safety agency is regarded as an effective organisation, which provides eu member states with significant savings. the emsa is playing an important role in terms of reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human life at sea. i fully support the proposal to provide the emsa with greater scope to assist neighbouring countries as search and rescue operations know no geographical or political boundaries. however, it is regrettable that the commission has yet to undertake a study into the creation of a european coastguard despite the adoption of the directive on ship source pollution which mandates the commission to do so. i also welcome the fact that both norway and iceland are active members of the european maritime and safety agency in my capacity as the chairman of the european parliament delegation to the eea and efta states.
in writing. − bashar al-assad must immediately resign as president of syria. his dictatorial regime is facing increasing international isolation because of its continuing brutal repression of the syrian people. the un security council should refer the crimes against humanity committed by the al-assad regime against the syrian people to the international criminal court. i welcome the sanctions imposed by the eu on the syrian regime on 14 november and 1 december and would encourage the eu and the un to introduce further measures that target the syrian regime but that minimise the negative impact on the syrian people. i applaud the courage and determination of the syrian people, particularly its women, in their struggle for freedom, dignity and democracy. the syrian opposition should seek to establish a united platform committed to achieving freedom and democracy and respect for human rights for all in syria. it should continue to engage with the international community. the eu must be ready to develop a new partnership with syria once al-assad goes and a transition to democracy begins.
i scríbhinn. − ós rud é go bhfostaíonn an comhlimistéar iompair eorpach 10 milliún duine agus go gcruthaíonn sé 5% de rachmas an aontais, ní foláir go mbeadh stráitéis chomhtháite maidir leis an gcomhlimistéar iompair eorpach a chomhordú ar bharr chlár oibre an mhargaidh aonair amach anseo. in éirinn, is daoine faoi aois a gcúig bliana fichead 38% dóibh siúd a fuair bás ar bhóithre na tíre agus mar sin aontaím leis an rapóirtéir go mba chóir cur chuige dírithe comhtháithe a fhorbairt d’fhonn caighdeáin slándála cúrsaí iompair a fheabhsú. tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le breis mhachnaimh a dhéanamh ar an timpeallacht oibre agus ar choinníollacha oibre agus fostaíochta do mhuintir an ae atá ag obair san earnáil iompair. molaim a bhfuil ann maidir le hiarraidh ar an gcoimisiún anailís a dhéanamh ar leibhéal an bhonneagair, dlús na ngréasán iompair agus caighdeán seirbhísí iompair na heorpa. ní mór go ndéanfaí simpliú ar chúrsaí riaracháin chun cabhrú le soghluaiseacht daoine, seirbhísí agus earraí san ae.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which will improve mobility for eu citizens across the member states.
i scríbhinn. − tá iarrachtaí rialta ar bun ag eagraíochtaí neamh-rialtasacha agus ag unicef le tamall fada anuas chun aird an phobail a tharraingt ar shaincheist an tsaothair leanaí agus obair éigeantach in earnáil chadáis na húisbéiceastáine. tugtar le tuiscint do leanaí go mbeidh siad i mbaol a ndíbeartha ón scoil mura nglacann siad páirt i mbaint fhómhar an chadáis. bíonn bascadh, coimeád nó bagairt maidir le híosghrádú marcanna i ndán dóibh siúd nach gcomhlíonann a gcuóta nó leo siúd nach mbíonn a gcadás ar chaighdeán atá ard go leor. tacaím go hiomlán leis an rapóirtéir, a deir nár chóir do pharlaimint na heorpa a formheas a thabhairt don leasú ar chomhaontú um chomhpháirtíocht agus comhar leis an úisbéiceastáin fad is nach dtagann feabhas ar an scéal maidir le húsáid leathan saothar leanaí agus ar chearta an duine sa tír. ní fhéadfaidh an pharlaimint beartú ar an gcomhaontú seo go dtí go dtugann údaráis na húisbéiceastáine cead d’ionadaithe ón eagraíocht idirnáisiúnta saothair géarmhonatóireacht neamhspleách a dhéanamh sa tír chun a chinntiú go bhfuil fíorleasuithe curtha i bhfeidhm agus go bhfuil torthaí na leasuithe sin le feiceáil sa mhéid is go bhfuil an obair éigeantach agus an saothar leanaí á ndíothú.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the interim report as it stresses the need for an ilo mission to uzbekistan to monitor the situation of child labour during the cotton harvest. numerous ngos have reported that up to 2 million children, some as young as seven years old, are forced to pick cotton, threatened with expulsion from school or physical punishment if they fail to pick a certain quota. on behalf of my political group, i put down amendments to this report in order to strengthen it and to avoid any ambiguity. my position is that no consent can be given to the protocol until after the ilo had been granted access to uzbekistan and child labour has effectively been eradicated. another amendment that i tabled concerned the reforms in the agricultural sector which need to be done in the interest of the uzbek population and the need to introduce high-level labour, social and ecological standards. unfortunately, this amendment was defeated and a position adopted in favour of privatisation and market orientation which i strongly reject as they will not lead to an improvement in the living conditions of farmers and children in uzbekistan.
in writing. − each year 168 000 people die and over seven million are injured from work-related accidents in europe. in addition to these individual personal tragedies, the economic costs of these accidents represent a huge burden on our societies, up to 5.9% of gdp according to the rapporteur. i am disappointed that neither the commission’s mid-term revision of the current strategy nor the 2009 scoreboard provided any clear information on the state of play at member state level of the only quantified aim set in the current strategy, namely a 25% reduction in workplace accidents by 2012. the economic crisis cannot be used to undermine health and safety, particularly among smes or self-employed workers; all workers are entitled to the protection of their health and safety in their workplace. we need to develop a better culture of prevention. as recommended by the ilo, member states must meet the target of one inspector for every 10 000 workers. i would encourage the commission to come forward with an ambitious strategy for the eu after 2012, particularly in the areas of new risks, work-related stress and the protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report on health and safety at work. the number of occupational accidents in europe remains too high, especially in the construction, agricultural and fisheries sectors.
in writing. − it is important that a harmonised european approach is adopted in order to improve health and safety at work in the eu. this report aims to outline a review of the european union’s strategy towards an ongoing, sustainable and uniform reduction in accidents at work and occupational illnesses. i am particularly concerned about the increasing number of accidents on farms in ireland and welcome efforts made by the commission to address this. i voted in favour of this report.
author. − mr president, it is now over ten years since the newly-found concern for women’s rights was used as one of the pretexts for going to war in, and then occupying, afghanistan. however, the situation facing women there remains absolutely devastating. they have the lowest literacy rate in the world at 13%, with only 5% of young women going on to secondary school, which is higher than it was under the taliban but lower than it was in 2005. according to the ngo womankind, anywhere between 60% and 80% of marriages are forced and 87% of women complain of domestic violence. it is the most dangerous place in the world to be a woman. the case of the young woman gulnaz is a horrific demonstration of the laws that women face. she was raped when she was 19 by her cousin’s husband, became pregnant, and as a result was convicted and jailed for the crime of ‘adultery by force’. thankfully, she was pardoned yesterday and has been released, although she was facing a jail term of up to 12 years. in fact, half the women in afghanistan prisons have been locked up for moral crimes. this terrible situation cannot be used as a pretext to continue the occupation. the troops must be withdrawn now and activists in the west need to give real assistance and solidarity to women’s organisations, organisations of workers and the poor, to fight for... (the president cut off the speaker)
